FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 A: Accounting policies A1: Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities other than those held by life assurance funds which are accounted for as investments.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and IFRICs.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Details of standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2010 annual financial statements are described in section A24 and in the individual sub-sections.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities designated as fair value through the income statement or as available-for-sale, owner-occupied property and investment property.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of the previous carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments see note A6 n, in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to be appropriate having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going concern.
Judgements made by the directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note A3.
At 31 December 2010 the Group was in advanced stage negotiations for the disposal of its life assurance operations in the United States, which represent almost the entirety of the US Life operating segment.
As a result of this, the assets and liabilities of the US Life disposal group have been classied as held for sale in the statement of financial position for the current year in accordance with IFRS 5.
This sale will present the Groups exit from the life assurance market in the United States and therefore meets the criteria of a discontinued operation.
Consequently the comparative information in the income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash ows and the related notes has been restated where applicable to reect this.
For the purposes of adjusted operating profit, US Life has been reclassied as a non-core operation for the year ended 31 December 2010 with the comparative information restated accordingly.
The disposal is expected to be completed in the first half of 2011 and further details of the impact are provided in notes H1 and H2.
A2: Foreign currency translation a Foreign currency transactions The Groups presentation currency is pounds sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
The Parent Company functional currency is pounds sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are converted into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the initial recognition of the asset and liability and are not subsequently retranslated.
Exchange gains and losses on the translation and settlement during the period of foreign currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences for non-monetary items are recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income when the changes in the fair value of the non-monetary item are recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, and in the income statement if the changes in fair value of the non-monetary item are recognised in the income statement.
182 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information b Foreign investments The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, cumulative unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the cumulative effect of such gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004 were reset to zero.
A3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the financial statements the Group is required to make estimates and judgements that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, statement of financial position, other primary statements and related supporting notes.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgements or assessments, with estimates based on knowledge of the current situation and circumstances and assumptions based on that knowledge and predictions of future events and actions.
The areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates and the relevant accounting policies and notes are as follows: Area Accounting policy Note Life insurance contract provisions A5 E8 Deferred acquisition costs A5 F4 Fair value for financial assets and liabilities A6 E1 Deferred taxes A7 F8 Intangible assets A8 F1 Bermuda guarantees See below Classication of US Life as held for sale A1 H1 and H2 Non consolidation of wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking A4 a G4 Bermuda guarantees Old Mutual Bermuda, which is closed to new business, previously offered variable annuity products with a number of these remaining in place.
For variable annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum accumulation benets GMABs there are risks to the Group, with significant volatility in financial results possible due to changes in key market and economic variables, as well as unexpected policyholder behaviour.
The variable annuity guarantee reserve, including allowance for minimum death benefit guarantees GMDBs was 433 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 474 million.
Bermuda is continuing its run-off strategy, with attention to the adequacy of the hedging strategy, focusing on market segments that are considered vulnerable, whilst conserving liquidity by removing hedges on stronger market segments.
A number of adjustments to the hedging programme were made over the course of 2010 as a result of turbulent market conditions.
The hedging programme is dynamically managed and this strategy meant the business ended the year approximately 57% hedged against adverse equity and foreign exchange market movements.
The hedging team continues to evaluate the hedging strategy, including the most appropriate level of hedges on a continuing basis, with any proposed changes to the strategy subject to strict oversight.
The stop-loss protocol established in September 2009 remains in place, and continues to be monitored daily by Group and local management to ensure that a common understanding of the resultant impact on capital, cash and profit and loss on a timely basis.
GMAB and GMDB reserve calculations rely on the mapping of policyholder investment funds to hedgeable indices to determine market-consistent assumptions.
Regular fund mapping updates are performed at least quarterly, and better allocate exposures to Asian and other emerging markets which require higher levels of reserving given their higher inherent volatility thereby improving the accuracy of the reserves.
Overall, this market-consistent valuation methodology is guided by the fund mapping process.
Throughout the year, the business continued to maintain a very significant statutory capital surplus against its minimum required capital.
Liquidity risk is a key area of management focus.
Liquidity risk arises in relation to the GMABs, product top-ups will be required in 2012 and 2013.
The top-ups relate to an automatic exercise feature of the product whereby Bermuda needs to top-up universal guarantee option UGO contracts on the fifth anniversary if they have an account value of less than 105% of the original premium.
Surrender behaviour is a significant determinant of the Groups potential exposure to liquidity risk.
Bermudas current estimate of future guarantee claim costs, calculated as the average of 5,000 scenarios as at 31 December 2010, is 681 million which has been provided, with this to be partially met with liquid assets, future fee income and derivative ows and the balance covered through a loan agreement with Group.
In the 25% best case scenarios, average claims reduce to 292 million including losses from the hedging programme.
In the 10% worst case scenarios, average claims rise to 1,416 million.
Surrender behaviour with respect to variable annuity contracts with GMABs is directly inuenced by the differential between the value of the underlying funds and the nominal level of the guarantee, as well as the financial circumstances of the policyholder.
The recovery Old Mutual plc 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued across global equity markets, particularly in the fourth-quarter in 2010, resulted in an increase in the number of contracts where the underlying fund values were greater than the level of guarantees.
This resulted in a sharp increase in the levels of contracts with UGO riders surrendering in the fourth quarter of 2010, with overall surrender activity across GMAB contracts for the year at close to double 2009 levels.
Ultimately, surrender activity will determine the speed of the run-off and the extent and timing of any associated capital, or cash release for this business.
Group and local management actively monitor and manage surrender behaviour and liquidity risk.
A4: Group accounting a Subsidiary undertakings including special purpose entities Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Subsidiary undertakings include special purpose entities created to accomplish a narrow, well-dened objective, which may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entities, and where the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The Company considers the existence and effect of potential voting rights currently exercisable or convertible when assessing whether it has control.
Special purpose entities that the Company controls by virtue of the Company retaining the majority of risks or benets, for example interests in open-ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar entities, are also included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group consolidates certain of its interests in open-ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar investment vehicles collectively funds in the event that the Group has power to govern the operations of a fund so as to obtain benets from that fund, or for special purpose entities where the majority of benets arising in a particular fund accrue to the Group.
The latter condition is typically regarded as the case when the Group owns through a Group subsidiarys direct investment in a fund more than 50% of the shares or units in that fund.
The assets of consolidated funds are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate accounting policies for the assets in question.
The amounts due to the balance of the investors in these funds are reported as a liability under the balance sheet caption Third-party interests in consolidated funds.
Such interests are not recorded as non-controlling interests as they meet the liability classication requirement set out in paragraph 18 of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation.
As stated in note A22, these liabilities are regarded as current, as they are repayable on demand, although it is not expected that they will be settled in a short time period.
The Group financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal or control ceasing.
The consolidated financial statements do not include the wholly owned company  Skandia Skandia Liv and its subsidiaries.
Skandia Livs business is a mutual life assurance company that is highly regulated within a strict legal framework for mutual life assurance companies in Sweden, particularly in relation to its relationship with its holding company.
The Group does not have the power to control Skandia Liv in such a way as to access the benets usually associated with share ownership due to the legal and regulatory restrictions.
Those benets accrue to the policyholders of Skandia Liv.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated.
The shares in Skandia Liv are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies for equity financial instruments.
Intra-group balances and transactions, income and expenses and all profits and losses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
Unrealised losses are not eliminated to the extent that they provide evidence of impairment.
b Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Business combinations are accounted for at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
For all transactions subsequent to 31 December 2008 acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Prior to this date all acquisition-related costs were included in the cost of the acquisition.
Where appropriate, the cost of acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that have been classied as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition date, with the following exceptions: Q Deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Q Assets and liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benets.
184 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Q Liabilities or equity instruments that relate to the replacement, by the Group, of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
Q Assets or disposal groups that are classied as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Where provisional amounts were reported these are adjusted during the measurement period see below.
Additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reect any new information obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the date of acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as on that date.
The measurement period for initial accounting for a business combination is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group receives complete information about the facts and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date, subject to a maximum period of oneyear.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassied to the income statement, where such treatment would be appropriate if the interest were disposed of.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiary undertakings are identied and recorded separately from the Groups equity.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis for the initial measurement of the non-controlling interest is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests comprise the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition together with the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
For acquisitions prior to 31 December 2008, non-controlling interests were recorded at the proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets.
The difference between the proceeds from the disposal of a subsidiary undertaking and its carrying amount as at the date of disposal, including the cumulative amount of any related exchange differences that are recognised in equity, is recognised in the Group income statement as the gain or loss on the disposal of the subsidiary undertaking.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary undertaking that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as transactions with equity holders as owners.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised in equity and attributed to the Group.
Prior to 31 December 2008, such a difference would have been accounted for as an addition to goodwill.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated for either the provisions of the original 2003 or revised 2008 versions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 and corresponding provisions of IAS 27 Separate and Consolidated Financial Statements revised 2008 business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2009 have not been restated.
c Associates and jointly controlled operations An associate is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the Group has significant inuence but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and that is neither a subsidiary nor an investment in a joint venture.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in excess of 20%, but less than 50%, of the voting rights.
A jointly controlled operation is a joint venture operated through a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each venturer has an interest.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement, whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over the activity.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates and jointly controlled operations are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The carrying amount of such investments is reduced to recognise any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Where a Group enterprise transacts with an associate or jointly controlled operation of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate or jointly controlled operation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Investments in associates and jointly controlled operations that are held with a view to subsequent resale are accounted for as non-current assets held for sale, and those held by policyholder life assurance funds are accounted for as financial assets fair valued through the income statement.
Old Mutual plc 185 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A5: Insurance and investment contracts Life assurance a Classication of contracts Contracts sold as life assurance with the exception of unit-linked assurance contracts are categorised into insurance contracts, contracts with a discretionary participation feature or investment contracts in accordance with the classication criteria set out in the following paragraphs.
For the Groups unit-linked assurance business, contracts are separated into an insurance component and an investment component known as unbundling, and each unbundled component is accounted for separately in accordance with the accounting policy for that component.
Unit-linked assurance contracts are savings contracts with a small or insignicant component of insurance risk.
Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group from the policyholder is not significant are classied as investment contracts.
Such contracts include savings and or investment contracts sold without life assurance protection.
Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the policyholder or other beneciary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder are classied as insurance contracts.
Insurance risk is risk other than financial risk.
Contracts accounted for as insurance contracts include life assurance contracts and savings contracts providing more than an insignicant amount of life assurance protection.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rate, security price, security index, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, a credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specic to a party to the contract.
Contracts with a discretionary participating feature are those under which the policyholder holds a contractual right to receive additional payments as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments.
These additional payments, the amount or timing of which is at the Groups discretion, represent a significant portion of the total contractual payments and are contractually based on 1 the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract, 2 realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the Group or 3 the profit or loss of the Group.
Investment contracts with discretionary participating features, which have no life assurance protection in the policy terms, are accounted for in the same manner as insurance contracts.
b Premiums on life assurance Premiums and annuity considerations receivable under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are stated gross of commission, and exclude taxes and levies.
Premiums in respect of linked insurance contracts are recognised when the liability is established.
Premiums in respect of other insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature are recognised when due for payment.
Outward reinsurance premiums are recognised when due for payment.
Amounts received under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature and unit-linked assurance contracts are recorded as deposits and credited directly to investment contract liabilities.
c Revenue on investment management service contracts Fees charged for investment management services provided in conjunction with an investment contract are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
Fees charged for investment management service contracts in our asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
d Claims paid on life assurance Claims paid under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature include maturities, annuities, surrenders, death and disability payments.
Maturity and annuity claims are recorded as they fall due for payment.
Death and disability claims and surrenders are accounted for when notied.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts paid under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature and unit-linked assurance contracts are recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities.
e Insurance contract provisions Insurance contract provisions for African businesses have been computed using a gross premium valuation method.
Provisions in respect of African business have been made in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis as set out in the guidelines 186 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa in Professional Guidance Note PGN 104 2001.
Under this guideline, provisions are valued using realistic expectations of future experience, with margins for prudence and deferral of profit emergence.
Provisions for investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are also computed using the gross premium valuation method in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis.
Surplus allocated to policyholders but not yet distributed related to these contracts is included as part of life assurance policyholder liabilities.
For the US business, the insurance contract provisions are calculated using the net premium method, based on assumptions as to investment yields, mortality, withdrawals and policyholder dividends.
For the term life products, the assumptions are set at the time the contracts are issued, whereas the assumptions are updated annually, based on experience for the annuity products.
Universal life and deferred annuity reserves are computed on the retrospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the cash value of the contracts.
Reserves on immediate annuities and guaranteed payments are computed on the prospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the present value of future benefit payments.
For other territories, the valuation bases adopted are in accordance with local actuarial practices and methodologies.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract are not separated and measured at fair value if the embedded derivative itself qualies for recognition as an insurance contract.
In this case the entire contract is measured as described above.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and intangible assets is sufficient in view of estimated future cash ows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash ows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability at discount rates appropriate to the business in question.
Where a shortfall is identied, an additional provision is made.
The provision estimation techniques and assumptions are periodically reviewed, with any changes in estimates reected in the income statement as they occur.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross insurance contract provisions and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
The Group applies shadow accounting in relation to certain insurance contract provisions in the South Africa life assurance, and DAC and PVIF assets in the United States life assurance, in respect of owner-occupied properties or available-for-sale financial assets, in order for recognised unrealised gains or losses on those assets to affect the measurement of the insurance contract provisions, DAC or PVIF assets in the same way that recognised realised gains or losses do.
In respect of the South Africa life assurance, shadow accounting is applied to insurance contract provisions where the underlying measurement of the policyholder liability depends directly on the value of owner-occupied property and the unrealised gains and losses on such property, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The shadow accounting adjustment to insurance contract provisions is recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the unrealised gains or losses on owneroccupied property backing insurance contract provisions are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
In respect of the United States life assurance, shadow accounting adjustments are made to the amortisation of DAC and PVIF assets in respect of unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets to the extent that those unrealised gains and losses would impact the calculation of DAC or PVIF amortisation were they recognised in income.
The shadow DAC and PVIF amortisation charge is recognised in other comprehensive income in line with the unrealised gains and losses on the relevant financial assets until such time as those assets are sold or otherwise disposed of, at which point the accumulated amortisation recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled to the income statement in the same way as the unrealised gains or losses on those financial assets.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as insurance contracts.
Liability adequacy testing is performed to ensure that the carrying amount of the liability for financial guarantee contracts is sufficient.
f Investment contract liabilities Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups non-linked business are recorded at amortised cost unless they are designated at fair value through the income statement in order to eliminate or signicantly reduce a measurement or recognition inconsistency, for example where the corresponding assets are recorded at fair value through the income statement.
Old Mutual plc 187 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups linked business are recorded at fair value.
For such liabilities, including the deposit component of unbundled unit-linked assurance contracts, fair value is calculated as the account balance, which is the value of the units allocated to the policyholder, based on the bid price of the assets in the underlying fund adjusted for tax.
Investment contract liabilities measured at fair value are subject to a deposit oor such that the liability established cannot be less than the amount repayable on demand.
g Acquisition costs Acquisition costs for insurance contracts comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the sale of insurance contracts.
As the gross premium valuation method used in African territories to determine insurance contract provisions makes implicit allowance for the deferral of acquisition costs, no explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is recognised in the statement of financial position for the contracts issued in these areas.
For the US life insurance business, an explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is established in the statement of financial position.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period that profits on the related insurance policies are expected to emerge.
Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future profit margins.
Deferral of costs on insurance business in other territories is limited to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future margins.
h Costs incurred in acquiring investment management service contracts Incremental costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service contract are recognised as an asset if they can be identied separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Costs attributable to investment management service contracts in the asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
General insurance All classes of general insurance business are accounted for on an annual basis.
i Premiums on general insurance Premiums stated gross of commissions exclude taxes and levies and are accounted for in the period in which the risk commences.
The proportion of the premiums written relating to periods of risk after the reporting date is carried forward to subsequent accounting periods as unearned premiums, so that earned premiums relate to risks carried during the accounting period.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related direct insurance.
j Claims on general insurance Claims incurred comprise the settlement and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising during the year and adjustments to prior year claim provisions.
Outstanding claims comprise claims incurred up to, but not paid, at the end of the accounting period, whether reported or not.
Outstanding claims do not include any provision for possible future claims where the claims arise under contracts not in existence at the reporting date.
188 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its claim liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and the unearned premium reserve is sufficient in view of estimated future cash ows.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events, and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions established in prior years are reected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made, and disclosed separately if material.
The methods used and estimates made are reviewed regularly.
k Acquisition costs on general insurance Acquisition costs, which represent commission and other related expenses, are deferred and amortised over the period in which the related premiums are earned.
l Reinsurance The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the diversication of its risks.
Assets, liabilities and income and expense arising from ceded reinsurance contracts are presented separately from the related assets, liabilities, income and expense from the related insurance contracts because the reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
Only rights under contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance assets.
Rights under contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are accounted for as financial instruments.
Reinsurance premiums for ceded reinsurance are recognised as an expense on a basis that is consistent with the recognition basis for the premiums on the related insurance contracts.
For general insurance business, reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpensed portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
The net amounts paid to a reinsurer at the inception of a contract may be less than the reinsurance assets recognised by the Group in respect of its rights under such contracts.
Any difference between the premium due to the reinsurer and the reinsurance asset recognised is included in the income statement in the period in which the reinsurance premium is due.
The amounts recognised as reinsurance assets are measured on a basis that is consistent with the measurement of the provisions held in respect of the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets include recoveries due from reinsurance companies in respect of claims paid.
Reinsurance assets are assessed for impairment at each reporting date.
An asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all amounts due, and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Old Mutual plc 189 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A6: Financial instruments a Recognition and fide-recognition A financial asset or liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group fide-recognises a financial asset when, and only when: Q The contractual rights to the cash ows arising from the financial assets have expired or been forfeited by the Group: or Q It transfers the financial asset including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset: or Q It no longer controls the financial asset nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, regardless of whether it has transferred the asset.
A financial liability is fide-recognised when, and only when, the liability is extinguished, that is, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, assigned, cancelled or has expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part thereof extinguished or transferred to another party and consideration received, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the timeframe established by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recognised at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Otherwise such transactions are treated as derivatives until settlement occurs.
Loans and receivables are recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs when cash is advanced to borrowers.
b Initial measurement Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through the income statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset of financial liability.
c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash ow models and option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes are included in investment income or finance costs as appropriate.
d Hedge accounting Qualifying hedging instruments must either be derivative financial instruments or non derivative financial instruments used to hedge the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in fair value or changes in cash ows.
Changes in the value of the financial instrument should be expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash ows of the underlying hedged item.
The Group designates certain qualifying hedging instruments as either 1 a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised rm commitment fair value hedge : 2 a hedge of a future cash ow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction, and could affect profit or loss cash ow hedge : or, 3 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge accounting is used for qualifying hedging instruments designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
190 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The Groups criteria for a qualifying hedging instrument to be accounted for as a hedge include: Q Upfront formal documentation of the hedging instrument, hedged item or transaction, risk management objective and strategy, the nature of the risk being hedged and the effectiveness measurement methodology that will be applied is prepared before hedge accounting is adopted.
Q The hedge is documented showing that it is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash ows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the risk management and strategy detailed in the upfront hedge documentation.
Q The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured.
Q The hedge is assessed and determined to have been highly effective on an ongoing basis.
Q For cash ow hedges of a forecast transaction, an assessment that it is highly probable that the hedged transaction will occur and will carry profit and loss risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that prove to be highly effective in relation to hedged risk, are recorded in the income statement, along with the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to that specic hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk are recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Any previous adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument carried at amortised cost as a result of previous hedge accounting is amortised in the income statement from the date hedge accounting ceases to the maturity date of the financial instrument, based on the effective interest method.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
e Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives embedded in financial and non-financial instruments, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives and recognised as such on a stand alone basis, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reported in the income statement.
If it is not possible to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid instrument is categorised as fair value through the income statement and measured at fair value.
f Offsetting financial instruments and related income Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expense items are offset only to the extent that their related instruments have been offset in the statement of financial position, with the exception of those relating to hedges, which are disclosed in accordance with the income statement effect of the hedged item.
Old Mutual plc 191 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued g Interest income and expense Interest income and expense in relation to financial instruments carried at amortised cost or held as available-for-sale is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method taking into account the expected timing and amount of cash ows.
Interest income and expense include the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences between the initial carrying amount of an interest-bearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest basis.
Interest income and expense on financial instruments carried at fair value through the income statement is presented as part of interest income or expense.
h Non-interest revenue Non-interest revenue in respect of financial instruments principally comprises fees and commission and other operating income.
These are accounted for as set out below.
Fees and commission income Loan origination fees for loans that are probable of being drawn down, are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective yield on the loan.
Fees and commission arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third-party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Other Revenue other than interest, fees and commission including fees and insurance premiums, which includes exchange and securities trading income, dividends from investments and net gains on the sale of banking assets, is recognised in the income statement when the amount of revenue from the transaction or service can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benets of the transaction or service will ow to the Group.
i Financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity or available-for-sale.
An analysis of the Groups statement of financial position, showing the categorisation of financial assets, together with financial liabilities is set out in note E1 a. Held-for-trading financial assets Held-for-trading financial assets are those that were either acquired for generating a profit from short-term uctuations in price or dealers margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit taking exists, or are derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets designated as fair value through the income statement Financial assets that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis for instance with respect to financial assets supporting insurance contract provisions or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis for instance financial assets supporting shareholders funds.
All financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement, whether held-for-trading or designated, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If such price information is not available for these instruments, the Group uses other valuation techniques, including internal models, to measure such instruments.
These techniques use market observable inputs where available, derived from similar assets and liabilities in similar and active markets, from recent transaction prices for comparable items or from other observable market data.
For positions where observable reference data are not available for some or all parameters the Group estimates the non-market observable inputs used in its valuation models.
Where discounted cash ow techniques are used, estimated future cash ows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a market-related rate at the reporting date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Fair values of certain financial instruments, such as over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments, are determined using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, yield curves, credit spreads and volatility factors.
Realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on all financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement are included in Investment return non-banking or in Banking trading, investment and similar income as appropriate.
192 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Interest earned whilst holding financial assets at fair value through the income statement is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return non-banking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, when a dividend is declared.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those classied by the Group as fair value through income statement or available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment write-downs.
Third-party expenses such as legal fees incurred in securing a loan are treated as part of the cost of the transaction.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Financial assets with xed maturity dates which are quoted in an active market and where management has both the intent and the ability to hold the asset to maturity are classied as held-to-maturity.
These assets are carried at amortised cost less any impairment write-downs.
Interest earned on held-to-maturity financial assets is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices other than those designated fair value through income statement or as loans and receivables, are classied as available-for-sale.
Management determines the appropriate classication of its investments at the time of the purchase.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable or determined to be unreliable, the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash ow techniques.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on observable market data where available at the reporting date.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When available-for-sale financial assets are disposed the related accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.
When available-for-sale assets are impaired the resulting loss is shown separately in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Interest earned on available-for-sale financial assets is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return non-banking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, as appropriate when a dividend is declared.
j Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities Securities sold subject to linked repurchase agreements are retained in the financial statements as appropriate when considering the fide-recognition criteria contained within IAS 39.
The securities that are retained in the financial statements are reected as trading or investment securities and the counterparty liability is included in amounts owed to other depositors, deposits from other banks, or other money market deposits, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counterparties are retained in the financial statements and any interest earned recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
Old Mutual plc 193 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued k Impairments of financial assets Indicators of impairment A provision for impairment is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover all amounts relating to the financial asset.
Observable data that could come to the attention of the Group that could lead to a provision for impairment to be made includes: Q significant financial difficulty of the counterparty.
Q A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments.
Q The Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the counterpartys financial difficulty, grants to the counterparty a concession that the Group would not otherwise consider.
Q It becoming probable that the counterparty will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
Q Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows from a group of assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identied with the individual financial assets, including: adverse changes in the payment status of counterparties in the group of financial assets: or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group of financial assets.
In addition, for an available-for-sale financial asset, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
Financial assets at amortised cost The amount of the impairment of a financial asset held at amortised cost is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the value of expected cash ows, including amounts recoverable from guarantees and collateral, discounted based on the effective interest rate at initial recognition.
In estimating expected cash ows the Group looks at the contractual cash ows of the assets and adjusts these contractual cash ows for historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks, with this adjusted to reect any additional conditions that are expected to arise or to account for those which no longer exist.
The impairment provision also covers losses where there is objective evidence that losses are present in components of the loan portfolio at the reporting date, but these components have not yet been specically identied.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written-off against the related impairment provision.
If the amount of impairment subsequently decreases due to an event occurring after the write-down, the release of the impairment provision is credited to the income statement.
Impairment reversals are limited to what the carrying amount would have been, had no impairment losses been recognised.
Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised on the impaired amount using the original effective interest rate before the impairment.
Available-for-sale financial assets The amount of the impairment loss of an available-for-sale financial asset is the cumulative loss that has been recognised in other comprehensive income, being the difference between the acquisition cost and the assets current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in the income statement.
For available-for-sale debt securities, fair value is determined as is the present value of expected future cash ows discounted at the current market rate of interest.
All such impairments are recognised in the income statement.
The release of an impairment allowance in respect of a debt instrument categorised as available-for-sale is credited to the income statement, the release in respect of an equity instrument categorised as available-for-sale is credited to the available-for-sale reserve within equity.
l Financial liabilities other than investment contracts and derivatives Non-derivative financial liabilities, including borrowed funds, amounts owed to depositors and liabilities under acceptances, are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement or as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis and are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis.
For financial liabilities recorded at fair value and which contain a demand feature, the fair value of the liability is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
194 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Financial liabilities categorised at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value, which is normally represented by the transaction price, less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Conversion options included within financial liabilities are recorded separately in shareholders equity.
The Group does not recognise any change in the value of this option in subsequent periods.
The remaining obligation to make future payments of principal and interest to bondholders is calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond and is presented on the amortised cost basis in other borrowed funds until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
m Reclassications of financial assets A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the denition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was required to be categorised as held-for-trading on the basis that it was held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term may under exceptional circumstances be reclassied out of the fair value through income statement category if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
If a financial asset is so reclassied, it is reclassied at its fair value on the date of reclassication.
Any gain or loss already recognised in profit or loss is not reversed.
The fair value at the date of reclassication becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
Other non-derivative financial assets that were required to be categorised as held-for-trading at initial recognition may be reclassied out of the fair value through income statement category in rare circumstances.
Measurement of the asset after reclassication depends on the subsequent categorisation.
A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the denition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was designated as available-for-sale may under exceptional circumstances be reclassied out of the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category if it meets the loans and receivables denition at the date of reclassication and if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
In the case of a financial asset with a xed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the available-for-sale reserve in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life using the effective interest method together with any difference between the new amortised cost and the maturity amount.
In the case of a financial asset that does not have a xed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the available-for-sale reserve in equity is recognised in profit or loss when the financial asset is sold or otherwise disposed of.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of the amendments, issued in October 2008 to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relating to the reclassication of financial assets, certain qualifying financial assets held by the Group during the period up to and including 1 July 2008 were reclassied as of that date and based on the fair value at that date.
Details of all reclassications of financial assets in accordance with the above accounting policies are shown in note E1 a. n Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are recorded at cost.
Impairments of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are accounted for in the same way as impairments of other non-financial assets see section A9.
Old Mutual plc 195 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A7: Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in which case it is correspondingly recognised in other comprehensive income.
a Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
b Deferred tax Deferred taxation is provided using the temporary difference method.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base.
The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred taxation is charged to the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised directly in other comprehensive income, or a business combination that is an acquisition.
The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available, against which the unutilised tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be used.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benets will be realised.
In certain circumstances, as permitted by accounting guidance, deferred tax balances are not recognised.
In particular where the liability relates to the initial recognition of goodwill, or transactions that are not a business combination, and at the time of their occurrence affect neither accounting or taxable profit.
Note F8 includes further detail of circumstances in which the Group does not recognise temporary differences.
A8: Intangible assets a Goodwill and goodwill impairment Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an asset at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously-held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously-held equity interest if any, this excess is recognised immediately in the income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least once annually.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of any profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs, being the smallest identiable group of assets that generates cash inows that are largely independent of the cash inows from other assets or group of assets.
The directors annually test for impairment of each CGU or group of CGUs containing goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, at a level that is no larger than that of the Groups identied operating segments for the purposes of segmental reporting.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU or group of CGUs exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
196 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information b Present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business The present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business is capitalised in the consolidated statement of financial position as an intangible asset.
The capitalised value is the present value of cash ows anticipated in the future from the relevant book of insurance and investment contract policies acquired.
This is calculated by performing a cash ow projection of the associated life assurance fund and book of in-force policies in order to estimate future after tax profits attributable to shareholders.
The valuation is based on actuarial principles taking into account future premium income, mortality, disease and surrender probabilities, together with future costs and investment returns on the assets supporting the fund.
These profits are discounted at a rate of return allowing for the risk of uncertainty of the future cash ows.
The key assumptions impacting the valuation are discount rate, future investment returns and the rate at which policies discontinue.
The asset is amortised over the expected profit recognition period on a systematic basis over the anticipated lives of the related contracts.
The amortisation charge is stated net of any unwind in the discount rate used to calculate the asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset is re-calculated at each reporting date and any impairment losses recognised accordingly.
c Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Contractual banking and asset management customer relationships, relationships with distribution channels and similar intangible assets, acquired as a part of a business combination, are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash ows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition such acquired intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Q Distribution channels 10 years Q Customer relationships 10 years Q Brand 15 20 years The estimated life is re-evaluated on a regular basis.
d Internally developed software Internally developed software is amortised over its estimated useful life.
Such assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software is recognised in the statement of financial position if, and only if, it is probable that the relevant future economic benets attributable to the software will ow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred in the research phase are expensed whereas costs incurred in the development phase are capitalised subject to meeting specic criteria, set out in the relevant accounting guidance.
The main criteria being that future economic benets can be identied as a result of the development expenditure.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant software, which range between two and five years.
e Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benets embodied in the specic asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Old Mutual plc 197 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A9: Impairment all assets other than goodwill, deferred tax assets and financial assets The Group assesses all assets other than goodwill, deferred tax assets and financial assets on an ongoing basis for indications of impairment or whether a previously recognised impairment loss should be reversed.
If such indicators are found to exist, then detailed impairment testing is carried out.
Impairments where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount and the reversal of previously recognised impairments are recognised in the income statement.
A10: Property, plant and equipment a Owned assets Owner-occupied property is stated at revalued amounts, being fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Plant and equipment, principally computer equipment, motor vehicles, xtures and furniture, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, individual terms of property, plant and equipment held at 1 January 2004 were measured at fair value, which was deemed to be their cost at that date.
b Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is measurable and will result in probable future economic benets.
Expenditure incurred to replace a separate component of an item of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment is capitalised to the cost of the item of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment and the component replaced is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense when incurred.
c Revaluation of owner-occupied property Owner-occupied property is valued on the same basis as investment property.
When an individual property is revalued, any increase in its carrying amount as a result of the revaluation is transferred to a revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same property previously recognised as an expense in the income statement.
When the value of an individual property is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease is charged against any related credit balance in the revaluation reserve in respect of that property.
However, to the extent that it exceeds any surplus, it is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
d fide-recognition On fide-recognition of an owner-occupied property or item of plant and equipment, any gain or loss on disposal, determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement in the period of the fide-recognition.
In the case of owner-occupied property, any surplus in the revaluation reserve in respect of the individual property is transferred directly to retained earnings.
198 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information e Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment that are accounted for separately.
In the case of owner-occupied property, any accumulated depreciation at revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the property concerned and the net amount restated to the revalued amount.
Subsequent depreciation charges are adjusted based on the revalued amount for each property.
Any difference between the depreciation charge on the revalued amount and that which would have been charged under historic cost is transferred, net of any related deferred tax, between the revaluation reserve and retained earnings as the property is utilised.
The maximum estimated useful lives are as follows: Q Computer equipment 5 years Q Computer software 3 years Q Motor vehicles 6 years Q Fixtures and furniture 10 years Q Leasehold property 20 years Q Freehold property 50 years f Leases Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance leases Lease agreements where the Group substantially accepts the risks and rewards of the ownership of the leased asset are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the outstanding balance of the liability.
Finance lease obligations, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period according to the effective interest method.
Where applicable, assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Where assets are leased out under a finance lease arrangement, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
Initial direct costs are included in the initial measurement of the receivable.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods to reect a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Assets leased under operating leases Assets leased out under operating leases are included under property, plant and equipment in the statement of financial position.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the rental income.
Leased assets are depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent with similar assets.
Rental income net of any incentives given to lessees is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
When another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the users benefit, then that method is used.
Old Mutual plc 199 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A11: Investment properties Investment property is real estate held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation.
It does not include real estate held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Internal professional valuers perform valuations annually.
For practical reasons, valuations are carried out on a cyclical basis over a 12 month period due to the large number of properties involved.
External valuations are obtained once every three years on a cyclical basis.
In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and reporting date an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to reect any material changes in value.
The valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash ows.
Vacant land, land holdings and residential ats are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
Near vacant properties are valued at land value less the estimated cost of demolition.
Surpluses and deficits arising from changes in fair value are reected in the income statement.
For properties reclassied during the year from property, plant and equipment to investment properties, any revaluation gain arising is initially recognised in the income statement to the extent that impairment losses were previously recognised.
Any residual excess is taken to the revaluation reserve.
Revaluation deficits are recognised in the revaluation reserve to the extent of previously recognised gains and any residual deficit is accounted for in the income statement.
Investment properties that are reclassied to owner-occupied property are revalued at the date of transfer, with any difference being taken to the income statement.
A12: Finance costs Finance costs relate to the Groups borrowed funds that are directly controlled by, or managed on behalf of, Old Mutual plc.
These include interest payable, and gains and losses on revaluation of these funds and on those derivative instruments which are used to hedge these funds.
A13: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
Where the proceeds of disposal are expected to exceed the book value of the related net assets no impairment loss is recognised on the reclassications of assets as held for sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classication.
A discontinued operation is dened as a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classied as held for sale and: Q Represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: Q Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or Q Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
When a non-current asset or disposal group ceases to be classied as held for sale, the individual assets and liabilities cease to be shown separately in the statement of financial position at the end of the year in which the classication changes.
If the line of business was previously presented as a discontinued operation and subsequently ceases to be classied as held for sale the income statement and cash ows of the comparative period are restated to show that line of business as a continuing operation.
A14: Pension plans and retirement benets Dened benefit and dened contribution schemes have been established for eligible employees of the Group with the assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
The projected unit credit method is used to determine the dened benefit obligations based on actuarial assessments, which incorporate not only the pension obligations known on the reporting date but also information relevant to their expected future development.
The discount rates used are determined based on the yields for investment grade corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are recognised in the income statement over a period of time to the extent that the net cumulative unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the previous financial year exceed 10% of the greater of 200 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information the fair value of the plan assets or 10% of the present value of the gross dened benefit obligations before deducting plan assets in the scheme at that date.
Such actuarial gains and losses are recognised over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the scheme.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 were recognised in equity at that date.
Where the corridor calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When the benets of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
To the extent that the benets vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Contributions in respect of dened contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, Group companies make provision for post retirement medical and housing benets for eligible employees.
Non-pension post retirement benets are accounted for according to their nature, either as dened contribution or dened benefit plans.
The expected costs of post retirement benets that are dened benefit plans in nature are accounted for in the same manner as for dened benefit pension plans.
A15: Share-based payments a Equity-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in an equity-settled transaction with employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value of those equity instruments is measured at grant date.
If the equity instruments granted vest immediately and the employee is not required to complete a specified period of service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those instruments, the services received are recognised in full on grant date in the income statement for the period, with a corresponding increase reected directly in equity.
Where the equity instruments do not vest until the employee has completed a specified period of service, it is assumed that the services rendered by the employee, as consideration for those equity instruments, will be received in the future, during the vesting period.
These services are accounted for in the income statement as they are rendered during the vesting period, with a corresponding increase recognised directly in equity.
In the Parent Company, the fair value of equity instruments granted by the Company to the employees of subsidiary undertakings is recorded as an additional investment in the relevant subsidiary with credit recorded in equity.
b Cash-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in cash-settled transactions with employees and the liability to pay for those services, are recognised at fair value as the employee renders services.
Until the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
c Measurement of fair value of equity instruments granted The equity instruments granted by the Group are measured at fair value at the measurement date using standard option pricing valuation models.
The valuation technique is consistent with generally acceptable valuation methodologies for pricing financial instruments, and incorporates all factors and assumptions that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in setting the price of the equity instruments.
As permitted under IFRS 1, the provisions of this accounting policy have not been applied to equity-settled grants made on or before 7November2002, or awards granted after that date but which had vested prior to 1 January 2005.
A16: Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and highly liquid short-term funds, mandatory reserve deposits held with central banks, cash held in investment portfolios awaiting reinvestment and cash and cash equivalents subject to the consolidation of funds.
Old Mutual plc 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A17: Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outow of economic benets will occur, and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the effect of discounting is material, provisions are discounted and the discount rate used is a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Specic policies: Q A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benets to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Q A provision for restructuring is recognised only if the Group has approved a detailed formal plan and raised a valid expectation among those parties directly affected, that the plan will be carried out either by having begun implementation or by publicly announcing the plans main features.
Q No provision is made for future operating costs or losses.
A18: Segment reporting The Groups results are analysed and reported consistent with the way that management and the Board of Directors considers information when making operating decisions and the basis on which resources are allocated and performance assessed by management and the Board of Directors, covering both core and non-core operations.
The core operating segments are Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management collectively being Long-Term Savings plus Nedbank, Mutual & Federal M&F, US Asset Management and Other operations which includes the Group head ofce functions.
The non-core operating segment includes US Life and the Bermuda segments.
The above reported segments have been revised during the year to reect the reclassication of US Life as non-core and discontinued, with the comparative information having been revised to report on a consistent basis to the amended structure.
There are four principal business activities from which the Group generates revenues.
These are life assurance premium income, asset management business fee and commission income, banking banking interest receivable and general insurance premium income.
The revenues generated in each reported segment can be seen in the analysis of profits and losses in note B.
The information reected in note B reects the measures of profit and loss, assets and liabilities for each operating segment as regularly provided to management and the Board of Directors.
There are no differences between the measurement of the assets and liabilities reected in the primary statements and that reported for the segments.
A reconciliation between the segment revenues and expenses and the Groups revenues and expenses is shown in note B.
In line with internal reporting, assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated between segments where appropriate and where there is a reasonable basis for doing so.
The Group accounts for inter-segment revenues and transfers as if the transactions were with third parties at current market prices.
Given the nature of the operations, there are no major customers within any of the segments.
Reclassications of comparative segment information have been made to align segment information to the Groups revised management reporting structure described above.
There was no impact on net profit or net assets.
A19: Treasury shares Upon consolidation, the statement of financial position and income statement are adjusted for own shares held in policyholder funds, Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOPs, and Black Economic Empowerment Trusts consolidated within the Groups financial statements.
Own shares are deducted from equity.
On purchase, the cost of the shares acquired is deducted from equity.
Subsequently, any proceeds from the sale or cancellation of own equity instruments are recognised in equity.
Income in relation to own shares, both dividends received and unrealised gains and losses, are eliminated before stating the profit for the year.
In calculating basic earnings per share, the exclusion of income in respect of own shares from the income statement requires the corresponding exclusion of own shares from the weighted average number of shares.
When calculating diluted earnings per share, the number of shares included in the weighted average reects the potential issue in respect of the own shares held.
202 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information A20: Share capital Ordinary and preference share capital including perpetual preferred callable securities is classied as equity if it is non-redeemable by the shareholder and any dividends are discretionary and coupon payments are recognised as distributions within equity.
Preference share capital is classied as a liability if it is redeemable on a specic date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Coupon payments thereon are recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
A21: Dividends Dividends payable to holders of equity instruments are recognised in the period in which they are authorised or approved.
Interim dividends payable to holders of the Groups ordinary share capital are authorised by the directors of the Parent Company, the final dividend typically requires shareholder approval.
A22: Liquidity analysis of the statement of financial position The Groups statement of financial position is in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In order to satisfy the requirements of IAS 1, the following analysis is given to describe how statement of financial position lines are categorised between current and non-current balances, applying the principles laid out in IAS 1.
The following statement of financial position captions are generally classied as current cash and cash equivalents, non-current assets held for sale, client indebtedness for acceptances, current tax receivable, third-party interests in the consolidation of funds, current tax payable, liabilities under acceptances and non-current liabilities held for sale.
The following balances are generally classied as non-current goodwill and other intangible assets, mandatory reserve deposits with central banks, property, plant and equipment, investment property, deferred tax assets, investments in associated undertakings and jointly controlled operations, deferred acquisition costs, deposits held with reinsurers, provisions, deferred revenue and deferred tax liabilities.
The following balances include both current and non-current portions reinsurers shares of life assurance and general insurance business policyholder liabilities, loans and advances, investments and securities, other assets, derivative financial assets and liabilities, life assurance and general insurance policyholder liabilities, borrowed funds, amounts owed to bank depositors and other liabilities.
The split between the current and non-current portions for these assets and liabilities is given either by way of a footnote to the relevant note to the accounts or by way of a maturity analysis in respect of major financial liability captions.
A23: Funds under management Funds under management represents a measure of the value of customer assets managed by the Groups insurance and asset management operating segments.
Accounting treatment of funds under management depends on the nature of the contractual relationship with the customer and generally conforms to the following basic principles: Q Contracts with customers that involve a policy of insurance between the customer and the insurer are accounted for on-balance sheet and follow the accounting policies set out in A4.
For such contracts, there is a legal transfer of funds between the customer and the insurer, and accounting recognition follows this contractual form, in accordance with insurance practice under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts IFRS 4.
The amount due to the policyholder is accounted for as a liability generally in life assurance policyholder liabilities, the funds received are invested by the insurer in financial and other assets, which are recorded on-balance sheet.
Q Customer funds related to asset investment management contracts with the investor, where the investor only has a service relationship with the Group and where the contractual terms do not result in a transfer of ownership of the investors assets to the insurer or asset manager, are not recognised on the Groups balance sheet but are only included as part of the funds under management measure.
The Group has no legal entitlement to the investors assets, nor any requirement to recognise a liability to the investor.
Note B5 on page 212 provides an analysis of funds under management.
The lines life assurance policyholder funds and shareholder funds represent on-balance sheet funds under management, whereas the lines unit trusts and mutual funds and third-party client funds are off-balance sheet.
A24: Standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2010 annual financial statements The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been adopted in these financial statements: Q IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment in respect of accounting for rights issues, effective 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group.
The amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Groups financial statements.
Old Mutual plc 203 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A25: Standards and interpretations that have previously been early-adopted in the Groups annual financial statements The following standards and interpretations have been previously early-adopted in the Groups financial statements.
Q IFRS 2 Share-based payment amendments effective 1 January 2010.
The Group early-adopted the amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions issued in June 2009.
These amendments introduce guidance on the treatment of Group cash-settled share-based payment arrangements and consolidate the previous requirements set out in IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
There were no material impacts arising from the implementation of this amendment.
Q IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 effective 1July2009.
The Group early-adopted the provisions of the revised version of IFRS 3 Business Combinations together with the corresponding amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements in these financial statements.
No retrospective application of the standards is required.
Details of the accounting policy for business combinations are given in A3.
Q IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations consequential amendment effective 1 July 2009.
The Group early-adopted the consequential amendment clarifying that assets and liabilities of a subsidiary should be classied as held for sale if the Group is committed to a plan involving loss of control, regardless of whether the Group will retain a noncontrolling interest after the sale.
Q IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures consequential amendments effective 1 July 2009 arising from the changes to IFRS 3 and IAS 27.
The Group early-adopted the consequential amendments to IAS 28 and IAS 31 arising as a result of the early-adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 27 revised 2008.
There were no material impacts arising from the implementation of these amendments.
Q IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective 1 July 2009.
The Group early-adopted amendments made to clarify two hedge accounting issues: i ination in a financial hedged item and ii a one sided risk in a hedged item.
The amendments had no impact on the Groups financial statements.
A26: Future standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations not early-adopted in the 2010 annual financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, although the EU has not yet endorsed all of them.
Q IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment.
The amended standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
It claries the denition of a related party to simplify the identication of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
The revised standard introduced a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for government-related entities.
The Group does not expect any impact on its financial position or performance.
Early adoption is permitted for either the partial exemption for government-related entities or for the entire standard.
Q IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013 is a new standard on financial instruments that will eventually replace IAS 39.
The published standard introduces changes to the current IAS 39 rules for classication and measurement of financial assets.
Under IFRS 9 there will be two measurement bases for financial assets, amortised cost and fair value.
Financial assets at fair value will be recorded at fair value through the income statement with a limited opportunity to record changes in fair value of certain equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
The main impact for the Group will be the reclassication of the Bermuda business bond portfolios from available-for-sale fair value changes through other comprehensive income to amortised cost or fair value through the income statement.
Financial liabilities are excluded from the scope of the standard.
The Group is currently assessing the full impacts of the standard on its financial statements.
The standard has not yet to be endorsed by the EU.
Q IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 July 2010.
IFRIC 19 claries the treatment of transactions whereby equity instruments are issued in order to extinguish all or part of a financial liability.
IFRIC 19, which has been endorsed by the EU, is not expected to have any impact on the Groups annual financial statements.
Q IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement.
The amendment to IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 with retrospective application.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The amendment is deemed to have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Q IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets Amendments to IFRS 7 was issued in October 2010.
The amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures require enhancements to the existing disclosures where an asset is transferred but is not derecognised and introduce new disclosures for assets that are derecognised but the entity continues to have a continuing exposure to the asset after the sale.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
Early application of the amendments is permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the full impacts of these disclosure requirements on its financial statements.
The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
204 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information B: Segment information B1: Basis of segmentation The Groups core operations are Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management collectively Long-Term Savings, Nedbank, Mutual & Federal, US Asset Management and Other including the Group head ofce functions.
The Bermuda operating segment is regarded as non-core.
This is consistent with the revised way that management and the Board of Directors considers information when making operating decisions and is the basis on which resources are allocated and performance assessed by management and the Board of Directors, being in line with that reported in the previous financial year.
This information is presented to the Board in local currency however this note is presented in pounds sterling, the presentation currency of the Group.
As detailed above US Life has been reclassied as discontinued and as a result also non-core with the comparative segment information restated accordingly, with this resulting in a reduction in adjusted operating profit before tax and non-controlling interest of 49 million for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Group generates revenue from four principal business activities: life assurance, asset management, banking and general insurance.
The types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues are as follows: Core operations Emerging Markets life assurance and asset management Nordic life assurance, asset management and banking Retail Europe life assurance and asset management Wealth Management life assurance and asset management Nedbank banking and asset management Mutual & Federal general insurance US Asset Management asset management Other other operating segments and business activities Non-core operations Bermuda life assurance US Life life assurance Adjusted operating profit is one of the key measures reported to the Groups management and Board of Directors for their consideration in the allocation of resources to and the review of performance of the segments.
The Group utilises additional measures to assess the performance of each of the segments, in particular the level of net client cash ows and funds under management.
Additional performance measures considered by management and the Board of Directors in assessing the performance of the segments can be found in the Market Consistent Embedded Value basis supplementary information presented on pages 332 to 383.
In the analysis that follows, consolidation adjustments include the elimination of inter-segment revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities together with the impacts of the consolidation of the Groups interest in unit trusts, mutual funds and similar entities.
Old Mutual plc 205 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B2: Adjusted operating profit statement segment information year ended 31 December 2010 Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Revenue Gross earned premiums 2,353 122 28 351 2,854 Outward reinsurance 72 5 8 79 164 Net earned premiums 2,281 117 20 272 2,690 Investment return non-banking 4,072 1,144 392 4,409 10,017 Banking interest and similar income 169 169 Banking trading, investment and similar income 5 5 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 372 238 198 912 1,720 Other income 72 8 11 91 Intersegment revenues 54 20 5 12 91 Total revenues 6,851 1,701 615 5,616 14,783 Expenses Claims and benets including change in insurance contract provisions 3,943 83 25 303 4,354 Reinsurance recoveries 8355 75 168 Net claims and benets incurred 3,860 78 20 228 4,186 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,261 1,066 382 4,190 6,899 Losses on loans and advances 4 1 5 Finance costs including interest and similar expenses Banking interest payable and similar expenses 78 78 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 219 62 75 500 856 Other operating and administrative expenses 941 255 84 390 1,670 Goodwill impairment Change in thirdparty interest in consolidated funds Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 32 48 69 149 Inter-segment expenses 2 2 2 43 49 Total expenses 6,315 1,593 564 5,420 13,892 Share of associated undertakings and joint ventures profit loss after tax 32 16 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating profit loss before tax and noncontrolling interests 539 110 51 197 897 Tax expense 146 20 13 44 223 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Adjusted operating profit loss after tax and noncontrolling interests 392 90 38 153 673 Adjusting items net of tax and non-controlling interests 1 87 25 140 253 profit loss after tax from continuing operations 391 3 13 13 420 Loss from discontinued operations after tax profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 391 3 13 13 420 Of the total revenues, excluding intercompany revenues, 5,143 million was generated in the UK 2009: 5,544 million, 2,937 million in rest of Europe 2009: 3,938 million, 12,575 million in South Africa 2009: 10,084 million, 829 million in United States 2009: 993 million and 90 million relates to other operating segments 2009: 81 million.
Bermuda profit after tax for 2010 was 22 million.
Further detail on the results of discontinued operations is provided in note H1.
Old Mutual plc 207 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B2: Adjusted operating profit statement segment information year ended 31 December 2009 restated Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Wealth Long-Term Markets Nordic Retail Europe Management Savings Revenue Gross earned premiums 1,946 109 31 315 2,401 Outward reinsurance 56 5 8 81 150 Net earned premiums 1,890 104 23 234 2,251 Investment return non-banking 2,636 2,035 564 4,997 10,232 Banking interest and similar income 157 157 Banking trading, investment and similar income Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 305 190 189 746 1,430 Other income 65 6 24 95 Inter-segment revenues 55 32 10 27 124 Total revenues 4,951 2,524 786 6,028 14,289 Expenses Claims and benets including change in insurance contract provisions 2,551 72 37 255 2,915 Reinsurance recoveries 76 2 5 46 129 Net claims and benets incurred 2,475 70 32 209 2,786 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,040 1,972 554 4,775 8,341 Losses on loans and advances 5 1 6 Finance costs including interest and similar expenses Banking interest payable and similar expenses 70 70 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 184 53 79 394 710 Other operating and administrative expenses 768 215 96 380 1,459 Goodwill impairment Change in third-party interest in consolidated funds Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 37 39 116 192 Inter-segment expenses 5 38 2 48 93 Total expenses 4,509 2,462 764 5,922 13,657 Share of associated undertakings and joint ventures profit loss after tax 4 4 profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating profit loss before tax and noncontrolling interests 446 62 22 106 636 Tax expense 130 9 8 20 149 Non-controlling interests 2 2 Adjusted operating profit loss after tax and noncontrolling interests 314 71 14 86 485 Adjusting items net of tax and non-controlling interests 200 4 228 225 657 profit loss after tax from continuing operations 114 67 214 139 172 Loss from discontinued operations after tax profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 114 67 214 139 172 208 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Adjusted Adjusting Consolidation operating items Non-core IFRS Income Nedbank M&F USAM Other adjustments profit Note C1 operations statement 612 3,013 7 3,020 117 267 267 495 2,746 7 2,753 58 13 91 509 10,903 275 484 11,112 3,832 3,989 3,989 168 168 168 663 22 429 6 2,538 116 2,422 70 1 7 1 174 22 196 31 29 6 30 251 31 31 4,764 605 455 121 253 20,487 391 544 20,640 412 3,327 459 3,786 72 201 1 200 340 3,126 460 3,586 8,341 4 8,345 505 511 511 104 104 218 322 2,557 2,627 2,627 2 106 18 12 848 167 47 728 1,167 64 354 84 22 3,150 97 19 3,072 266 266 470 470 470 312 312 192 192 65 25 55 251 13 13 4,296 535 372 243 253 19,356 340 543 20,239 2 4 2 2 50 50 470 70 83 126 1,133 781 1 353 96 15 19 4 283 128 11 400 193 16 34 245 23 222 181 39 64 164 605 886 12 269 15 3 241 886 886 196 39 61 405 281 12 269 71 71 196 39 61 405 281 59 340 Non-core operations relates to Bermuda with the exception of 21 million of Inter-segment revenue and expenses and the Loss from discontinued operations after tax, with these reecting the results of US Life which has been classied as a discontinued operation as detailed in notes A1 and B1.
Bermuda profit after tax for 2009 was 33 million.
Old Mutual plc 209 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B3: Gross earned premiums Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2010 Markets Nordic Retail Europe Management Savings Life assurance insurance contracts 1,498 122 28 351 1,999 Life assurance investment contracts with discretionary participation features 855 855 General insurance Gross earned premiums 2,353 122 28 351 2,854 Life assurance other investment contracts recognised as deposits 1,829 1,040 656 6,287 9,812 Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Retail Europe Management Savings Life assurance insurance contracts 1,287 109 31 315 1,742 Life assurance investment contracts with discretionary participation features 659 659 General insurance Gross earned premiums 1,946 109 31 315 2,401 Life assurance other investment contracts recognised as deposits 2,726 1,199 733 4,906 9,564 B4: Impairments of financial assets m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Nordic 4 5 Total Long-Term Savings 4 5 Nedbank 547 504 Bermuda 13 Total 551 522 210 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Total core Non-core Nedbank M&F USAM operations operations Total 1,999 1,999 855 855 728 728 728 728 3,582 3,582 9,812 9,812 Total core Non-core Total Nedbank M&F USAM operations operations Restated 1,742 7 1,749 659 659 612 612 612 612 3,013 7 3,020 9,564 8 9,572 Old Mutual plc 211 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B5: Funds under management Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term As at 31 December 2010 Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Life assurance policyholder funds 31,750 11,722 4,317 40,401 88,190 Unit trusts and mutual funds 10,613 1,800 398 14,525 27,336 Third-party client funds 11,732 11,732 Total client funds under management 54,095 13,522 4,715 54,926 127,258 Shareholder funds 2,882 431 245 958 4,516 Total funds under management 56,977 13,953 4,960 55,884 131,774 Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term As at 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Life assurance policyholder funds 25,454 9,221 3,569 34,721 72,965 Unit trusts and mutual funds 7,686 1,428 391 11,308 20,813 Third-party client funds 8,229 8,229 Total client funds under management 41,369 10,649 3,960 46,029 102,007 Shareholder funds 2,130 360 210 830 3,530 Total funds under management 43,499 11,009 4,170 46,859 105,537 212 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Total core Non-core Nedbank M&F USAM operations operations Total 846 3,846 92,882 13,489 106,371 5,713 4,974 38,023 38,023 4,164 157,555 173,451 173,451 10,723 166,375 304,356 13,489 317,845 210 226 4,952 4,952 10,723 210 166,601 309,308 13,489 322,797 Total core Non-core Nedbank M&F USAM operations operations Total 658 6,789 80,412 9,602 90,014 3,775 4,095 28,683 28,683 3,800 150,423 162,452 162,452 8,233 161,307 271,547 9,602 281,149 162 1693,861 3,861 8,233 162 161,476 275,408 9,602 285,010 Old Mutual plc 213 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2010 Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term At 31 December 2010 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets F1 120 995 522 1,463 3,100 Goodwill 101 243 198 655 1,197 Present value of acquired in-force business 568 246593 1,407 Software development 11 4 3 20 38 Other intangibles 8180 75 195 458 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks Property, plant and equipment F2 396 12 3 16 427 Investment property F3 1,679 1,679 Deferred tax assets F8 a 96 78 27 27 228 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures G5 26 4 1 31 Deferred acquisition costs F4 139 66 316 855 1,376 Insurance contracts 114 7 47 69 Investment contracts 118 52 306 711 1,187 Asset management 20 3 97 120 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities E8 24 12 8 907 951 Insurance contracts 24 1 2 83 110 Unitlinked investment contracts and similar contracts 8 813 821 Outstanding claims 3 6 11 20 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities E8 Deposits held with reinsurers E8 Loans and advances E3 343 5,216 1 185 5,745 Policyholder loans 63 1 185 249 Other loans and advances 280 5,216 5,496 Investments and securities E4 34,519 13,392 4,466 40,856 93,233 Government and governmentguaranteed securities 4,704 167 74 272 5,217 Listed other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 2,324 2,798 46 5,168 Unlisted other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 4,209 20 140 4,369 Listed equity securities 10,991 7 10,998 Unlisted equity securities 1,945 4 1,949 Listed pooled investments 672 408 3 1,779 2,862 Unlisted pooled investments 7,936 10,015 4,316 37,671 59,938 Shortterm funds and securities treated as investments 1,704 994 2,698 Other securities 34 34 Current tax receivable 41 9 95 109 Client indebtedness for acceptances Trade, other receivables and other assets F5 854 191 58 274 1,377 Derivative financial instruments assets E6 557 10 567 Cash and cash equivalents 1,141 198 93 336 1,768 Noncurrent assets held for sale H2 66 Inter-segment assets 947 58 56 294 1,355 Total assets 40,845 20,233 5,559 45,315 111,952 214 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Consolidation Nedbank M&F USAM Other Bermuda US Life adjustments Total 637 33 1,181 14 4,965 453 13 1,155 13 2,831 1,407 184 20 1 243 26 484 1,079 1,079 546 25 16 1 1,015 19 1 341 2,040 28 12 148 416 96 2 8 25 162 1 19 14 124 1,534 19 124 212 1,187 1 14 135 31 982 31 141 821 20 122 122 2 2 46,032 1 51,778 249 46,032 1 51,529 6,886 553 218 109 2,567 2,587 106,153 1,997 17 2,044 9,275 3,730 2 52 323 2,081 11,356 4 201 4,574 52 119 12,033 23,202 241 8 5 48 2,251 866 43 179 1 1,919 2,721 8,591 39 3 16,528 43,452 377 19 102 156 3,352 34 32 100 47 156 190 190 943 82 138 62 1,038 292 3,932 1,350 109 1 476 2,503 841 131 171 458 74 689 4,132 1 12,384 12,391 202 23 4 975 874 47 3,480 58,929 1,005 1,898 1,754 4,678 12,431 905 193,552 Old Mutual plc 215 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2010 continued Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term At 31 December 2010 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities E8 35,676 12,248 4,460 41,468 93,852 Insurance contracts 14,122 45 130 1,109 15,406 Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 12,789 12,094 4,308 40,347 69,538 Other investment contracts 137 137 Discretionary participating investment contracts 8,249 8,249 Outstanding claims 379 109 22 12 522 General insurance liabilities E8 Thirdparty interests in consolidated funds Borrowed funds E9 291 2 1 294 Senior debt securities 2 2 Mortgage backed securities Subordinated debt securities 291 1 292 Provisions F6 158 38 4 50 174 Deferred revenue F7 22 1 197 498 718 Life assurance 17 1 194 408 620 Asset management 5 3 90 98 General insurance Deferred tax liabilities F8 225 98 124 224 671 Current tax payable 123 12 4 65 204 Trade, other payables and other liabilities F9 2,246 259 94 544 3,143 Liabilities under acceptances Amounts owed to bank depositors E10 5,957 5,957 Derivative financial instruments liabilities E6 135 10 145 Non-current liabilities held for sale Inter-segment liabilities 12314 99 227 Total liabilities 38,999 18,550 4,887 42,949 105,385 Net assets 1,846 1,683 672 2,366 6,567 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent F10 1,847 1,683 672 2,366 6,568 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Non-controlling interests ordinary shares F11 b 1 1 Non-controlling interests preference shares F11 b Total equity 1,846 1,683 672 2,366 6,567 The net assets of Emerging Markets are stated after eliminating investments in Group equity and debt instruments of 399 million 2009: 340 million held in policyholder funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares and subordinated liabilities and preferred securities issued by the Groups banking subsidiary Nedbank Limited.
All Emerging Markets debt relates to life assurance.
All other debt relates to other shareholders net assets.
216 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Consolidation Nedbank M&F USAM Other Bermuda US Life adjustments Total 846 3,933 98,631 136 3,635 19,177 69,538 710 298 1,145 8,249 522 397 397 3,584 3,584 2,456 11 1,443 4,204 1,186 11 537 1,736 112 112 1,158 906 2,356 4 40 3 47 260 1 11 730 1 621 98 11 11 158 13 16 858 1217 13 1 238 1,717 114 210 120 7 350 5,661 190 190 47,279 53,236 1,172 102 451 1,870 12,219 12,219 431 2 803 1,860 157 3,480 54,258 578 1,034 3,601 3,941 12,376 905 182,078 4,671 427 864 1,847 737 55 11,474 2,643 409 832 2,293 737 55 8,951 2,028 18 32 446 2,523 1,714 18 32 1,763 314 446 760 4,671 427 864 1,847 737 55 11,474 Old Mutual plc 217 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2009 Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term At 31 December 2009 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets F1 1061,035 5631,602 3,306 Goodwill 91 219 204 656 1,170 Present value of acquired in-force business 624 265 671 1,560 Software development 6 1 3 35 45 Other intangibles 9 191 91 240 531 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks Property, plant and equipment F2 33674 19 366 Investment property F3 1,518 2 1,520 Deferred tax assets F8 a 54 108 17 23 202 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures G5 20 2 22 Deferred acquisition costs F4 123 49 275 778 1,225 Insurance contracts 2 50 52 Investment contracts 107 47 271 654 1,079 Asset management 16 4 74 94 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities E8 11 10 6 772 799 Insurance contracts 11 7 4 45 67 Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 717 717 Outstanding claims 3 2 10 15 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities E8 Deposits held with reinsurers E8 108 108 Loans and advances E3 340 4,209 2 148 4,699 Policyholder loans 58 2 2 148 210 Other loans and advances 282 4,207 4,489 Investments and securities E4 27,603 10,836 3,693 35,120 77,252 Government and  securities 3,586 150 60 251 4,047 Listed other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 1,825 1,453 53 3,331 Unlisted other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 2,989 2 104 3,095 Listed equity securities 8,854 1 10 8,865 Unlisted equity securities 1,223 15 1,238 Listed pooled investments 457 547 437 1,441 Unlisted pooled investments 6,123 8,670 3,568 34,327 52,688 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 2,543 1 2,544 Other securities 3 3 Current tax receivable 4 4 16 86 110 Client indebtedness for acceptances Trade, other receivables and other assets F5 630 155 58 232 1,075 Derivative financial instruments assets E6 327 9 336 Cash and cash equivalents 189 344 81 278 892 Non-current assets held for sale H2 Inter-segment assets 1,352 59 23 277 1,711 Total assets 32,613 16,935 4,738 39,337 93,623 218 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Consolidation Nedbank M&F USAM Other Bermuda US Life adjustments Total 543 30 1,171 13 2 94 5,159 393 11 1,142 13 2,729 89 1,649 150 191 25 222 28 559 882 882 417 23 192 1 828 18 221 1,759 24 6 147 8 183 570 82 7 24 135 217 29 194 1,671 3,138 17 194 1,671 1,934 1,079 2 29 125 22 475 1,296 22 450 539 717 25 40 120 120 3 35 146 37,638 2 54 42,393 53 263 37,638 2 1 42,130 5,501 425 162 43 2,942 10,045 2,091 98,461 2,044 302 1,775 8,168 2,532 2 461 6,766 1,729 14,821 4 167 2,439 5,705 41 87 9,503 18,496 209 6 37 1,490 675 41 122 2,059 3 1,400 5,741 40 16 12,678 40,066 285 218 519 293 3,859 43 69 115 51 8 169 170 170 432 96 126 111 878 213 120 3,051 1,067 154 187 802 2,546 660 79 173 425 32 4 717 2,982 1 1 148 48 1 1,363 564 74 3,909 47,658 849 1,835 2,151 4,612 13,036 42 163,806 Old Mutual plc 219 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2009 continued Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Wealth Long-Term At 31 December 2009 Notes Markets Nordic Retail Europe Management Savings Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities E8 28,655 9,514 3,689 35,554 77,412 Insurance contracts 11,783 74 121 901 12,879 Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 9,838 9,335 3,560 34,639 57,372 Other investment contracts 115 115 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,639 6,639 Outstanding claims 280 105 8 14 407 General insurance liabilities E8 Third-party interests in consolidated funds Borrowed funds E9 272 26 298 Senior debt securities 26 26 Mortgage backed securities Subordinated debt securities 272 272 Provisions F6 147 11 8 33 199 Deferred revenue F7 23 5 160 456 644 Life assurance 16 5 155 379 555 Asset management 7 5 77 89 General insurance Deferred tax liabilities F8 b 200 113 124 167 604 Current tax payable 70 20 2 37 129 Trade, other payables and other liabilities F9 1,512 203 79 550 2,344 Liabilities under acceptances Amounts owed to bank depositors E10 5,448 5,448 Derivative financial instruments liabilities E6 141 22 163 Non-current liabilities held for sale Inter-segment liabilities 51 37 181 269 Total liabilities 31,071 15,399 4,062 36,978 87,510 Net assets 1,542 1,536 676 2,359 6,113 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent F10 1,540 1,536 676 2,359 6,111 Non-controlling interests 2 2 Non-controlling interests ordinary shares F11 b 2 2 Non-controlling interests preference shares F11 b Total equity 1,542 1,536 676 2,359 6,113 220 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Consolidation Nedbank M&F USAM Other Bermuda US Life adjustments Total 661 4,178 11,625 93,876 95 3,788 10,787 27,549 57,372 566 390 788 1,859 6,639 50 457 372 372 2,906 2,906 1,614 1,397 3,309 484 636 1,146 118 118 1,012 761 2,045 121 2 40 263 1 9 654 1 556 89 9 9 148 2 25 126 905 21 10 45 5 210 897 118 221 120 9 359 255 4,305 170 170 38,687 44,135 969 59 9 790 1,990 697 1,202 1,571 170 3,909 43,866 522 1,435 3,257 4,174 12,289 42 153,095 3,792 327 400 1,106 438 747 10,711 2,084 265 371 1,552 438 747 8,464 1,708 62 29 446 2,247 1,444 62 29 1,537 264 446 710 3,792 327 400 1,106 438 747 10,711 Old Mutual plc 221 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C: Other key performance information C1: Operating profit adjusting items a Summary of adjusting items In determining the adjusted operating profit of the Group for core operations certain adjustments are made to profit before tax to reect the directors view of the underlying long-term performance of the Group.
The following table shows an analysis of those adjustments from adjusted operating profit to profit before and after tax.
Long-Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2010 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting C1 b 2 89 41 74 206 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c Short-term uctuations in investment return C1 d 1 1 1 71 70 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 10 10 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f US Asset Management equity plans and non controlling interests C1 g Credit-related fair value losses on Group debt instruments C1 h Total adjusting items 11 90 40 145 286 Tax on adjusting items D1 d 10 3 15 5 33 Non-controlling interest in adjusting items F11 a iii Total adjusting items after tax and noncontrolling interests 1 87 25 140 253 Long-Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2009 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting C1 b 1 12 243 167 423 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c 51 7 58 Short-term uctuations in investment return C1 d 38 1 1 88 126 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 109 109 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f US Asset Management equity plans and noncontrolling interests C1 g Credit-related fair value gains on Group debt instruments C1 h Total adjusting items 199 13 242 262 716 Tax on adjusting items D1 d 1 9 14 37 59 Non-controlling interest in adjusting items F11 a iii Total adjusting items after tax and noncontrolling interests 200 4 228 225 657 The year ended 31 December 2009 has been restated to reect US Life as non-core and discontinued.
222 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Nedbank M&F USAM Other Total 6 2 214 1 21 22 7 6 83 10 44 44 6 6 20 183 203 27 7 17 145 482 7 4 6 6 36 30 9 21 10 11 20 151 425 m Nedbank M&F USAM Other Total 4 2 429 17 50 10 30 166 109 45 45 1 1 263 263 4 10 2 241 973 3 2 64 19 7 3 23 15 3 241 886 Old Mutual plc 223 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C: Other key performance information continued C1: Operating profit adjusting items continued b Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting Acquisition date deferred acquisition costs and deferred revenues are not recognised.
These are reversed in the acquisition statement of financial position and replaced by goodwill, other intangible assets and the value of the acquired present value of in-force business acquired PVIF.
In determining its adjusted operating profit the Group recognises deferred revenue and acquisition costs in relation to policies sold by acquired businesses pre-acquisition, and excludes the impairment of goodwill and the amortisation of acquired other intangibles and acquired PVIF and the movements in certain acquisition date provisions.
Goodwill impairment and acquisition accounting adjustments to adjusted operating profit are summarised below: m Emerging Wealth Year ended 31 December 2010 Markets Nordic Retail Europe Management Nedbank USAM Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF 116 21 77 214 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue 23 7 34 50 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 1 26 13 35 6 2 83 Change in acquisition date provisions 30 4 34 Goodwill impairment 1 1 2 89 41 74 6 2 214 m Emerging Wealth Total Year ended 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Retail Europe Management Nedbank USAM Restated Amortisation of acquired PVIF 106 37 86 229 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue 1 21 5 34 51 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 2 25 14 36 4 2 83 Change in acquisition date provisions 98 98 Goodwill impairment 187 79 266 1 12 243 167 4 2 429 The year ended 31 December 2009 has been restated to reect US Life as non-core and discontinued.
c Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments On 27 August 2010 USAM disposed of a subsidiary at a loss of 21 million.
In August 2008, an agreement with ABN AMRO Asset Management Asia and their parent company, Fortis Bank was entered into to acquire the 49% stake that Fortis held in AATEDA, a major Chinese asset management joint venture for 165 million.
On 27 May 2009 the termination of this agreement with ABN AMRO Asset Management Asia and Fortis Bank was announced, with an exit fee of 41 million which has been accounted for as a loss on disposal.
Loss profits on the disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments are analysed below: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Emerging Markets 51 Wealth Management 7 Total Long-Term Savings 58 Nedbank 1 USAM 21 1 Other 7 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 22 50 224 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information d Long-term investment return profit before tax includes actual investment returns earned on the shareholder assets of the Groups life assurance and general insurance businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is stated after recalculating shareholder asset investment returns based on a long-term investment return rate.
The difference between the actual and the long-term investment returns are short-term uctuations in investment return.
Long-term rates of return are based on achieved real rates of return appropriate to the underlying asset base, adjusted for current ination expectations, default assumptions, costs of investment management and consensus economic investment forecasts, and are reviewed frequently, usually annually, for appropriateness.
These rates of return have been selected with a view to ensuring that returns credited to adjusted operating profit are consistent with the actual returns expected to be earned over the long-term.
For Emerging Markets, the return is applied to an average value of investible shareholders assets, adjusted for net fund ows.
For Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management, the return is applied to average investible assets.
For M&F general insurance business, the return is an average value of investible assets supporting shareholders funds and insurance liabilities, adjusted for net fund ows.
% Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Long-term investment rates 2010 2009 Emerging Markets 9.4 13.3 Nordic 1.8 1.8 Retail Europe 2.5 2.8 Wealth Management 2.0 5.0 M&F 9.4 13.3 Analysis of short-term uctuations in investment return m Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2010 Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings M&F Other Total Long-term investment return 108 2 1 132 243 56 31 330 Less: Actual shareholder investment return 109 1 2 61 173 49 25 247 Short-term uctuations in investment return 1 1 1 71 70 7 6 83 m Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Total Year ended 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Europe Management Savings M&F Other Restated Long-term investment return 126 1 1 109 237 60 91 388 Less: Actual shareholder investment return 88 2 21 111 50 61 222 Short-term uctuations in investment return 38 1 1 88 126 10 30 166 Wealth Management long-term investment return includes 121 million 2009: 96m in respect of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
The year ended 31 December 2009 has been restated to reect US Life as non-core and discontinued.
Old Mutual plc 225 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C: Other key performance information continued C1: Operating profit adjusting items continued e Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instrument held in life funds Adjusted operating profit includes investment returns on policyholder investments in Group equity and debt instruments held by the Groups life funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares, and the subordinated liabilities and ordinary securities of Nedbank.
These investment returns are eliminated within the consolidated income statement in arriving at profit before tax, but are included in adjusted operating profit.
In 2010 the investment return adjustment increased adjusted operating profit by 10 million 2009: increase of 109 million.
f Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities Dividends declared to the holders of the Groups perpetual preferred callable securities were 44 million in the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: 45 million.
These are recognised in finance costs on an accruals basis for the purpose of determining adjusted operating profit.
In the IFRS financial statements this cost is recognised in equity.
g US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests US Asset Management has a number of long-term incentive arrangements with senior employees in its asset management afliates.
In accordance with IFRS requirements the cost of these schemes is disclosed as being attributable to non-controlling interests.
However, this is treated as a compensation expense in determining adjusted operating profit.
The loss recognised in 2010 was 9 million 2009: loss 3 million.
The Group has issued put options to senior employees as part of some of its US afliate incentive schemes.
The impact of revaluing these instruments is recognised in accordance with IFRS, but excluded from adjusted operating profit.
As at 31 December 2010 these instruments were revalued, the impact of which was 3 million 2009: 4 million.
h Credit-related fair value gains and losses on Group debt instruments The narrowing of credit spread of the Groups debt instruments in the market price has resulted in losses of 183 million 2009: losses due to narrowing of 263 million on Other operating segments and 20 million 2009: nil in Nedbank being recorded in the Groups income statement for those instruments that are recorded at fair value.
In the directors view, such movements are not reective of the underlying performance of the Group and will reverse over time.
They have therefore been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
C2: Foreign currencies The principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to Sterling are: Statement of Income financial statement position average rate closing rate 31 December 2010 Rand 11.3095 10.2796 US dollars 1.5459 1.5530 Swedish kronor 11.1364 10.4227 Euro 1.1650 1.1614 31 December 2009 Rand 13.1746 11.9172 US dollars 1.5655 1.6148 Swedish kronor 11.9743 11.5562 Euro 1.1227 1.1268 226 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information C3: Earning and earnings per share a Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in policyholder funds, ESOP trusts, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and other related undertakings.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 431 269 Loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 713 71 Loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 282 340 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 32 Loss attributable to ordinary equity holders 314 372 Total dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities of 44 million in 2010 2009: 45 million are stated net of tax credits of 12 million 2009: 13 million.
Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,422 5,277 Shares held in charitable foundations 7 7 Shares held in ESOP trusts 56 41 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,359 5,229 Shares held in life funds 205 236 Shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 295 235 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,859 4,758 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 6.5 7.8 Diluted earnings per share recognises the dilutive impact of share options held in ESOP trusts and Black Economic Empowerment trusts which are currently in the money in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shares were in issue for the full period.
Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,859 4,758 Adjustments for share options held by ESOP trusts 137 Adjustments for shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 295 5,291 4,758 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 6.1 7.8 No adjustments to the weighted average number of ordinary shares have been effected for 2009 in order to calculate the diluted earnings per ordinary share as any adjustments would be antidilutive.
Old Mutual plc 227 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C: Other key performance information continued C3: Earning and earnings per share continued b Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share is determined based on adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit represents the directors view of the underlying performance of the Group.
For long-term and general insurance business adjusted operating profit is based on long-term investment return, including investment returns on life funds investments in Group equity and debt instruments and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For the US Asset Management business it includes compensation costs in respect of certain long-term incentive schemes dened as non-controlling interests in accordance with IFRS.
For all businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, revaluations of put options related to long-term incentive schemes, the impact of closure of unclaimed shares trusts, profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities, income expense from closure of unclaimed shares trusts and fair value gains losses on Group debt instruments.
The reconciliation of profit for the financial year to adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 Restated Loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 282 340 Adjusting items 482 973 Tax on adjusting items 36 64 Non-core operations 1 12 Loss from discontinued operations US Life 713 71 Non-controlling interest on adjusting items 21 23 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 855 605 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,359 5,229 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 16.0 11.6 c Headline earnings per share In accordance with the JSE Limited JSE listing requirements, the Group is required to calculate a headline earnings per share HEPS, determined by reference to the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants circular 8 2007 Headline Earnings.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of basic earnings per ordinary share and HEPS in accordance with that circular.
Disclosure of HEPS is not a requirement of International Financial Reporting Standards.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 Restated Gross Net Gross Net Loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 282 282 340 340 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 32 32 32 Loss attributable to ordinary equity holders 314 314 372 372 Adjustments: Impairments of goodwill and intangible assets 20 20 266 266 Impairment of discontinued operations 827 827 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 22 17 50 53 Realised gains losses including impairments on available-for-sale financial assets 12 12 239 239 Headline earnings 543 538 183 186 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,859 4,859 4,758 4,758 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,291 5,291 5,109 5,109 Headline earnings per share pence 11.2 11.1 3.8 3.9 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 10.1 10.0 3.6 3.6 228 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information C4: Dividends Dividends paid were as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2010 2009 2009 Final dividend paid 1.5p per 10p share 77 2010 Interim dividend paid 1.1p per 10p share 54 Dividends to ordinary equity holders 131 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities F10 b 44 45 Dividend payments for the year 175 45 Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders, as above, are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date, less treasury shares held in ESOP trusts, life funds of Group companies, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and related undertakings.
As a consequence of the exchange control arrangements in place in certain African territories, dividends to ordinary equity holders on the branch registers of those countries or, in the case of Namibia, the Namibian section of the principal register are settled through Dividend Access Trusts established for that purpose.
In March and November 2010, 22 million and 22 million respectively were declared and paid to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities March 2009: 22 million and November 2009: 23 million.
A final dividend of 2.9 pence per 10p share has been recommended by the directors.
Subject to shareholders approval, the dividend will be paid on 31 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 April 2011.
The dividend will absorb an estimated 142 million of shareholders funds before taking into account any election for the scrip dividend alternative.
The Company is planning to offer a scrip dividend alternative for eligible shareholders.
D: Other income statement notes D1: Income tax expense credit a Analysis of total income tax expense credit m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 restated Current tax United Kingdom tax Corporation tax 23 46 Double tax relief Overseas tax South Africa 346 257 United States 4 7 Europe 61 49 Secondary Tax on Companies STC 4 13 Prior year adjustments 1 14 Total current tax 429 372 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 10 105 Changes in tax rates bases 4 Write down recognition of deferred tax assets 41 77 Total deferred tax 27 28 Total income tax expense 456 400 Old Mutual plc 229 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued D: Other income statement notes continued D1: Income tax expense credit continued b Reconciliation of total income tax expense credit m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 Restated profit before tax 1,145 353 Tax at standard rate of 28% 2009: 28% 321 99 Different tax rate or basis on overseas operations 22 2 Untaxed and low taxed income 171 83 Disallowable expenses 124 180 Net movement on deferred tax assets not recognised 92 69 Effect on deferred tax of changes in tax rates 7 2 STC 3 19 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 134 142 Other 12 22 Total income tax expense 456 400 c Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 Restated Preferred perpetual callable securities 13 12 Other 1 Income tax credit continuing operations 13 13 Fair value gains 181 428 Shadow accounting 114 18 Income tax expense discontinued operations 67 410 Income tax expense relating to components of other comprehensive income 54 397 d Income tax on adjusted operating profit m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 Restated Income tax expense credit 456 400 Tax on adjusting items Impact of acquisition accounting 35 40 profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 5 2 Short-term uctuations in investment return 3 39 Income tax attributable to policyholders returns 149 192 Tax on dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities recognised in equity 12 13 Fair value gains and losses on group debt instruments 5 Tax on non-core operations 4 11 Income tax on adjusted operating profit 347 283 230 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information D2: Investment return non-banking m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 Restated Interest and similar income Loans and advances 52 12 Investments and securities 1,249 1,095 Government and  securities 380 303 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 397 422 Pooled investments 271 80 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 184 285 Other 17 5 Cash and cash equivalents 100 57 Total interest and similar income 1,401 1,164 Dividend income investments and securities 362 373 Equity securities 336 310 Pooled investments 26 63 Fair value gains and losses recognised in income 8,875 9,530 Investments and securities 8,615 9,070 Derivatives 87 449 Other 347 909 Rental income from investment property 166 136 Investment property 30 99 Foreign currency losses gains 43 8 Total investment return recognised in income 10,791 11,112 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 Restated Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 97 74 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 87 449 Designated at fair value through income statement 8,962 9,992 Available-for-sale financial assets 13 8,875 9,530 The fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets shown above reect the amount previously recognised as unrealised within the available-for-sale reserve in equity that have been recycled to the income statement on disposal or impairment of the particular assets.
Included within fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale investments and securities are impairment losses of nil 2009: 13 million which related to debt securities held by the Groups Bermuda businesses.
Old Mutual plc 231 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued D: Other income statement notes continued D3: Banking interest and similar income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Interest and similar income Loans and advances 3,730 3,635 Mortgage loans 1,853 1,852 Finance lease and instalment debtors 650 581 Credit cards 102 92 Bills and acceptances 2 3 Overdrafts 128 120 Term loans and other 995 987 Investments and securities 352 346 Government and  securities 259 261 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 93 85 Cash and cash equivalents 8 Total interest and similar income 4,082 3,989 Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 3,518 3,586 Total interest income on impaired financial assets 151 218 D4: Banking trading, investment and similar income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Dividend income investments and securities 22 4 Equity securities 22 4 Rental income from investment property 4 4 Exchange and other non-interest income 4 21 Derivative income 65 61 Exchange 2 1 Securities dealing 68 42 Fair value losses gains 3 3 Net trading income 182 139 Foreign exchange 92 88 Debt securities 63 58 Equities 24 8 Other 3 1 Total banking trading, investment and similar income 204 168 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 96 35 Designated at fair value through income statement 93 32 3 3 Realised fair value gains included in the above 4 4 232 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information D5: Fee and commission income, and income from service activities m Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2010 business management Banking insurance Total Fee and commission income 1,129 1,099 863 29 3,120 Transaction and performance fees 22 22 Change in deferred revenue 73 9 1 81 1,056 1,112 864 29 3,061 m Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2009 business management Banking insurance Total Fee and commission income 947 855 632 23 2,457 Transaction and performance fees 27 27 Change in deferred revenue 73 11 1 1 62 874 893 633 22 2,422 The amounts shown above for asset management relate to fees earned on trust and duciary activities where the Group holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers.
D6: Finance costs m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2010 2009 Interest payable on borrowed funds 79 57 Senior debt and term loans 44 18 Subordinated debt 68 64 Other 33 25 Fair value gains and losses on borrowed funds 189 268 Borrowed funds 166 274 Derivative instruments 23 6 Foreign currency gains and losses on borrowed funds 2 3 Reserve movements relating to debt and derivative instruments 1 Total finance costs excluding banking activities 269 322 Finance costs from banking activities D7 202 117 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 25 21 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 23 6 Designated at fair value through income statement 166 274 189 268 D7: Banking interest payable and similar expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Amounts owed to bank depositors 2,305 2,458 Deposits and loan accounts 1,237 1,489 Current and savings accounts 111 119 Negotiable certicates of deposit 736 733 Banking non interest credit spreads 19 Long-term debt instruments 202 117 Other liabilities 214 169 Total interest payable and similar expenses 2,519 2,627 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 2,141 2,202 Old Mutual plc 233 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued D: Other income statement notes continued D8: Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs m Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2010 business management insurance Total Fees and commission expenses 649 177 109 935 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 31 4 35 Other acquisition costs 56 7 63 674 180 109 963 m Long-term Asset General Total Year ended 31 December 2009 business management insurance Restated Fees and commission expenses 621 126 106 853 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 178 3 181 Other acquisition costs 52 4 56 495 127 106 728 D9: Other operating and administrative expenses a Other operating and administrative expenses include: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 Note 2010 Restated Staff costs D9 b 1,958 1,685 Depreciation F2 103 86 Software costs 11 14 Operating lease rentals banking 63 55 Operating lease rentals non-banking 31 57 Amortisation of intangibles software 61 49 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 20 266 Included within the loss from discontinued operations is an additional amortisation of intangibles charge of nil 2009: 20 million b Staff costs m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 Note 2010 Restated Staff costs Wages and salaries 1,286 1,183 Social security costs 68 56 Retirement obligations Dened contribution plans 112 50 Dened benefit plans 5 2 Other retirement benets 12 4 Bonus and incentive remuneration 337 265 Share-based payments Cash settled G2 h 7 7 Equity settled G2 h 13 35 Termination benets 1 2 Long-term employee benets 1 1 Other 126 80 1,958 1,685 234 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information b Staff costs continued Number Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: Life assurance 21,073 18,897 Banking 28,134 27,180 Asset management 3,937 4,832 General insurance 2,223 2,331 Other 209 304 55,576 53,544 Discontinued US Life operations 154 162 55,730 53,706 c Fees to Groups auditors Included in other operating expenses and loss from discontinued operations are fees paid to the Groups auditors.
These can be categorised as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Fees for audit services Group 1.5 1.4 Subsidiaries 12.3 10.7 Pension schemes 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 14.1 12.4 Fees for non-audit services Taxation 2.2 1.1 Information technology 0.2 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Valuation and actuarial 0.2 0.1 Any other services provided by auditors 3.3 1.4 Total non-audit services 6.0 2.8 Total Group auditors remuneration 20.1 15.2 In addition to the above, fees of 4.3 million 2009: 2.9 million were payable to other auditors in respect of joint audit arrangements of Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary in South Africa.
Of the fees for audit services to subsidiaries, 1.1 million 2009: 1.6 million was in respect of discontinued US Life operations.
d Operating lease payments m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2010 2009 Banking 63 44 Non-banking 33 28 96 72 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for the rental of buildings and equipment.
Old Mutual plc 235 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities E1: Group statement of financial position The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets investments and loans, financial liabilities investment contracts, customer deposits and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
The key focus of financial risk management for the Group is ensuring that the proceeds from its financial assets are sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and banking operations.
The most important components of financial risk are credit risk, market risk arising from changes in equity, bond prices, and interest and foreign exchange rates, and liquidity risk.
Market risk arises from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specic market movements and or conditions.
a Categories of financial instruments The analysis of assets and liabilities into their categories as dened in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 is set out in the following table.
For completeness, assets and liabilities of a non-financial nature, or financial assets and liabilities that are specically excluded from the scope of IAS 39, are reected in the non-financial assets and liabilities category.
m Fair value through income statement AvailableFinancial Nonfor-sale Held-toliabilities financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2010 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 4,965 4,965 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 1,079 1,079 Property, plant and equipment 1,015 1,015 Investment property 2,040 2,040 Deferred tax assets 416 416 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 162 162 Deferred acquisition costs 1,534 1,534 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 982 816 38 128 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 122 122 Deposits held with reinsurers 2 2 Loans and advances 51,778 1,914 4,22345,641 Investments and securities 106,153 1,370 100,898 2,459 1,070 356 Current tax receivable 156 156 Client indebtedness for acceptances 190 190 Other assets 3,932 507 1,062 2,044 319 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,503 2,503 Cash and cash equivalents 4,132 4,132 Non-current assets held for sale 12,391 12,391 193,552 6,294 107,001 2,459 1,070 53,290 23,438 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 98,631 72,200 26 160 26,245 General insurance liabilities 397 397 Third-party interest in consolidation of funds 3,584 3,584 Borrowed funds 4,204 1,579 2,625 Provisions 260 260 Deferred revenue 730 730 Deferred tax liabilities 858 858 Current tax payable 238 238 Other liabilities 5,661 1,155 576 2,960 970 Liabilities under acceptances 190 190 Amounts owed to bank depositors 53,236 3,484 8,70341,049 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,870 1,870 Non-current liabilities held for sale 12,21912,219 182,078 6,509 86,642 26 160 46,634 42,107 236 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Fair value through income statement AvailableFinancial Nonfor-sale Held-toliabilities financial Heldforfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2009 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,159 5,159 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 882 882 Property, plant and equipment 828 828 Investment property 1,759 1,759 Deferred tax assets 570 570 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 135 135 Deferred acquisition costs 3,138 3,138 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,296 717 88 491 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 120 120 Deposits held with reinsurers 146 110 36 Loans and advances 42,393 1,163 3,157 38,073 Investments and securities 98,461 936 82,862 11,677 1,210 1,758 18 Current tax receivable 169 169 Client indebtedness for acceptances 170 170 Other assets 3,051 70 909 1,807 265 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,546 2,546 Cash and cash equivalents 2,982 2,982 Non-current assets held for sale 1 1 163,806 4,715 87,755 11,677 1,210 45,626 12,823 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 93,876 1,372 58,582 121 1,178 32,623 General insurance liabilities 372 372 Third-party interests in consolidation of funds 2,906 2,906 Borrowed funds 3,309 1,344 1,965 Provisions 263 263 Deferred revenue 654 654 Deferred tax liabilities 905 905 Current tax payable 210 210 Other liabilities 4,305 411 643 2,545 706 Liabilities under acceptances 170 170 Amounts owed to bank depositors 44,135 2,520 6,235 35,380 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,990 1,990 Non-current liabilities held for sale 153,095 6,293 69,710 121 41,068 35,903 b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Determination of fair value All financial instruments, regardless of their IAS 39 categorisation, are initially recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price, that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the initial fair value may be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modication or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only observable data.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets, which in certain circumstances includes using quotations from independent third parties such as brokers and pricing services, and offer prices for liabilities.
When quoted prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques that refer as far as possible to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash ow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
A number of factors such as bid-offer spread, credit prole, servicing costs and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when values are calculated using a valuation technique.
Changes in the assumptions used in such valuations could impact the reported value of such instruments.
Old Mutual plc 237 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued In general, other than in respect of those securities that have been reclassied from available-for-sale to loans and receivables as described in note E1 a above, none of the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost have a fair value signicantly different to their carrying amounts.
Such assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of variable-rate financial assets and liabilities that re-price as interest rates change, short-term deposits or current assets.
Loans and advances Loans and advances principally comprise of variable rate financial assets and liabilities, which are re-priced when there are movements in the interest rates.
The Group has developed and applied a fair value methodology in respect of gross exposures of loans and advances that are measured at amortised cost.
The methodology incorporates the historical interest rates per product type and the projected monthly cash ows per product type.
Future forecasts for the overall probability of default PD and Loss Given Defaults LGDs for the years from 2010 to 2012, based on the latest internal data available, is applied to the first three years projected cash ows.
Average PDs and LGDs are applied to the projected cash ows for later years.
These results are compared to both regulatory and accounting credit model values.
There are no significant variances in the fair value methodology results compared to the carrying values reported in these financial statements.
For impaired advances, the carrying value as determined from the Groups credit models is considered the best estimate of fair value.
The Group is satisfied that, after considering the internal credit models together with other assumptions and the variable interest rate exposure, the carrying value of loans and advances measured at amortised cost approximates fair value.
Investments and securities Investments and securities include government and  securities, listed and unlisted debt securities, preference shares and debentures, listed and unlisted equity securities, listed and unlisted pooled investments see below, short-term funds and securities treated as investments and certain other securities.
Pooled investments represent the Groups holdings of shares units in open-ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar investment vehicles.
Pooled investments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of pooled investments are based on widely published prices that are regularly updated or models based on the market prices of investments held in the underlying pooled investment funds.
Investment contracts The approach to determining the fair values of investment contracts is set out in the accounting policies section for insurance and investment contract business.
Amounts owed to bank depositors The fair values of amounts owed to bank depositors corresponds with the carrying amount shown in the statement of financial position, which generally reects the amount payable on demand.
Borrowed funds The fair values of amounts included in borrowed funds are based on quoted market prices at the reporting date where applicable, or by reference to quoted prices of similar instruments.
Other financial assets and liabilities The fair values of other financial assets and liabilities which comprised cash and cash equivalents, cash with central banks, other assets and liabilities are reasonably approximated by the carrying amounts reected in the statement of financial position as they are short-term in nature or re-price to current market rates frequently.
238 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Fair value hierarchy Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy.
Q Level 1 quoted market prices: financial assets and liabilities with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Instruments classied as Level 1 generally comprise listed equity securities, government securities and other listed debt securities and similar instruments, actively traded pooled investments, certain quoted derivative assets and liabilities, listed borrowed funds and investment contract liabilities linked to Level 1 pooled investments and other assets.
Q Level 2 valuation techniques using observable inputs: financial assets and liabilities with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial assets and liabilities valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Instruments classied as Level 2 generally comprise unlisted equity and debt securities where the valuation is based on models involving no significant unobservable data.
This includes certain loans and advances, certain privately placed debt instruments, third-party interests in consolidated funds and amounts owed to bank depositors.
Q Level 3 valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs: financial assets and liabilities valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Instruments classied as Level 3 generally comprise unlisted equity and securities with significant unobservable inputs, securities where the market is not considered sufciently active, including certain inactive pooled investments, and derivatives embedded in certain portfolios of insurance contracts where the derivative is not closely related to the host contract and the valuation contains significant unobservable inputs.
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an active market.
In the event that the market for a financial asset or liability is not active, or quoted prices cannot be obtained without undue effort, a valuation technique is used.
Old Mutual plc 239 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E1: Group statement of financial position continued The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, for example, consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to measure the fair value of the asset or liability requires additional work during the valuation process.
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data, and so the reliability of the fair value measurement is high.
However, certain financial assets and liabilities are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable and, for them, the derivation of fair value is more judgemental.
A financial asset or liability in its entirety is classied as valued using significant unobservable inputs if a significant proportion of that asset or liabilitys carrying amount is driven by unobservable inputs.
In this context, unobservable means that there is little or no current market data available for which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no market data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value.
Furthermore, in some cases the majority of the fair value derived from a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs may be attributable to observable inputs.
Consequently, the effect of uncertainty in determining unobservable inputs will generally be restricted to uncertainty about the overall fair value of the asset or liability being measured.
Additional information on the impact of unobservable inputs is provided in the section headed Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives.
Fair value hierarchy m Year ended 31 December 2010 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 6,294 810 5,444 40 Loans and advances 1,914 1,911 3 Investments and securities 1,370 302 1,031 37 Other assets 507 506 1 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,503 2 2,501 Designated fair value through income statement 107,001 87,081 18,490 1,430 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 816 813 3 Deposits held with reinsurers 2 2 Loans and advances 4,223 2 4,221 Investments and securities 100,898 86,244 13,224 1,430 Other assets 1,062 20 1,042 Available-for-sale financial assets 2,459 579 1,872 8 Investments and securities 2,459 579 1,872 8 Total financial assets measured at fair value 115,754 88,470 25,806 1,478 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 6,509 1,132 5,376 1 Life assurance policyholder liabilities Other liabilities 1,155 1,123 32 Amounts owed to bank depositors 3,484 3,484 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,870 9 1,860 1 Designated fair value through income statement 86,642 47,678 38,204 760 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 72,200 46,099 25,341 760 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 3,584 3,584 Borrowed funds 1,579 1,579 Other liabilities 576 576 Amounts owed to bank depositors 8,703 8,703 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 93,151 48,810 43,580 761 240 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Fair value hierarchy Year ended 31 December 2009 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 4,715 959 3,720 36 Loans and advances 1,163 31 1,125 7 Investments and securities 936 32 876 28 Other assets 70 70 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,546 826 1,719 1 Designated fair value through income statement 87,755 76,960 9,011 1,784 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 717 717 Deposits held with reinsurers 110 110 Loans and advances 3,157 3,157 Investments and securities 82,862 76,114 4,964 1,784 Other assets 909 19 890 Available-for-sale financial assets 11,677 1,159 10,070 448 Investments and securities 11,677 1,159 10,070 448 Total financial assets measured at fair value 104,147 79,078 22,801 2,268 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 6,293 1,201 3,727 1,365 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,372 20 1,352 Other liabilities 411 390 21 Amounts owed to bank depositors 2,520 18 2,502 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,990 793 1,184 13 Designated fair value through income statement 69,710 44,879 24,235 596 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 58,582 43,450 14,536 596 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 2,906 2,906 Borrowed funds 1,344 1,344 Other liabilities 643 85 558 Amounts owed to bank depositors 6,235 6,235 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 76,003 46,080 27,962 1,961 Old Mutual plc 241 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Gains losses Gains losses recognised in recognised in other At beginning of income comprehensive Purchases and Sales and the year statement income issues Settlements Level 3 financial assets 36 10 5 Held-for-trading fair value through income statement Loans and advances 7 1 3 Investments and securities 28 9 1 Other assets 1 1 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,784 164 6 94 240 Designated fair value through income statement 1,784 164 6 94 240 Investments and securities 448 5 1 Available-for-sale financial assets Investments and securities 448 5 1 Total Level 3 financial assets 2,268 154 6 99 246 Level 3 financial liabilities 1,365 3 1 Held-for-trading fair value through income statement Life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,352 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 13 3 1 596 31 2 54 Designated fair value through income statement Life assurance policyholder liabilities investment contracts 596 31 2 54 Total Level 3 financial liabilities 1,961 34 2 53 242 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m For assets and liabilities held at the year end Gains losses Gains losses recognised in recognised in other Foreign exchange and income comprehensive Transfers in Transfers out other movements At end of the year statement income 1 20 40 3 1 20 37 20 433 35 1,430 12 20 433 35 1,430 12 5 31 418 8 8 5 31 418 8 8 25 465 363 1,478 12 8 3 1,359 1 67 1,352 67 3 7 1 18 262 491 760 31 18 262 491 760 31 18 265 868 761 98 Included within Foreign exchange and other movements are the financial assets and liabilities of US Life which have been transferred to non-current assets and liabilities held for sale and are disclosed in note H2 Old Mutual plc 243 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The transfers into Level 3 largely relate to instances where inputs on certain financial assets and liabilities obtained from pricing service providers are no longer observable.
The transfers out of Level 3 relate to certain pooled investments no longer being considered inactive and for which observable inputs are now available.
There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the financial asset or liability as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameter using statistical techniques.
When parameters are not amenable to statistical analysis, quantication of uncertainty is judgemental.
When the fair value of a financial asset or liability is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the gures shown reect the most favourable or most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
In respect of private equity investments, the valuations are assessed on an asset-by-asset basis using a valuation methodology appropriate to the specic investment, in line with industry guidelines.
In many of the methodologies, the principal assumption is the valuation multiple to be applied to the main financial indicators including, for example, multiples for comparable listed companies and discounts to marketability.
For asset-backed securities whose prices are unobservable, models are used to generate the expected value of the asset, incorporating benchmark information on factors such as prepayment patterns, default rates, loss severities and the historical performance of the underlying assets.
The models used are calibrated by using securities for which external market information is available.
For structured notes and other derivatives, principal assumptions concern the future volatility of asset values and the future correlation between asset values.
These principle assumptions include credit volatilities and correlations used in the valuation of the structured credit derivatives.
For such unobservable assumptions, estimates are based on available market data, which may include the use of a proxy method to derive a volatility or correlation from comparable assets for which market data is more readily available, and examination of historical levels.
244 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Analysis of reasonably possible alternative assumptions m Reected in Reected in other income statement comprehensive income Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Year ended 31 December 2010 changes changes changes changes Level 3 financial assets Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 10 10 Loans and advances Investments and securities 8 8 Derivative financial instruments assets 2 2 Designated fair value through income statement 177 167 Investments and securities 177 167 Available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 Investments and securities 1 1 Total level 3 financial assets 188 178 Level 3 financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement Life assurance policyholder liabilities Derivative financial instruments liabilities Designated fair value through income statement 7 27 Life assurance policyholder liabilities investment contracts 7 27 Total level 3 financial liabilities 7 27 For the above analysis, the determination of the impacts of the favourable and unfavourable changes was based on a reasonable range of favourable and unfavourable changes in the key observable inputs for the major types of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities, ranging from, for example, a 10% change in the price earnings multiple for equity securities, to a 25% change in the discount rates applied to debt securities and volatility assumptions in derivative contracts.
Changes in other key observable inputs such as lapses and non-performance risk were also considered.
Old Mutual plc 245 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Financial instruments designated as fair value through income statement Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum Current exposure to financial At 31 December 2010 credit risk year Cumulative Loans and advances 4,223 Investments and securities 9,857 8 11 Other assets 88 14,168 8 11 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum exposure to Current At 31 December 2009 credit risk financial year Cumulative Loans and advances 3,157 1 Investments and securities 8,842 7 8 Other assets 56 12,055 8 8 Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as financial liabilities at amortised cost under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Contractual Current maturity At 31 December 2010 Fair value financial year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,579 203 74 1,686 Amounts owed to bank depositors 8,769 11 11 8,734 10,348 192 85 10,420 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Contractual Current maturity At 31 December 2009 Fair value financial year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,344 263 276 1,679 Amounts owed to bank depositors 6,235 6 18 6,290 7,579 257 294 7,969 The fair values of other categories of financial liabilities designated as fair value through the income statement do not change signicantly in respect of credit risk.
The change in fair value due to change in credit risk shown above is determined as the amount of the change in fair value of the instrument that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
For loans and receivables that have been designated as fair value through the income statement, individual credit spreads are determined at inception as the difference between the benchmark interest rate and the interest rate charged to the client.
Subsequent changes in the benchmark interest rate and the credit spread give rise to changes in fair value of the financial instrument.
Loans and advances are reviewed for observable changes in credit risk, and the credit spread is adjusted at subsequent dates if there has been an observable change in credit risk relating to a particular loan or advance.
No credit derivatives are used to hedge the credit risk on any of the financial assets designated as fair value through the income statement.
The change in fair value due to credit risk of financial liabilities designated as fair value through the income statement has been determined as the difference between fair values determined using a liability curve adjusted for credit and a risk-free liability curve.
This difference is cross-checked to market related data on credit spreads, where available.
246 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information c Market risk i Overview Market risk is the risk of a financial impact arising from the changes in values of financial assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk arises differently across the Groups businesses depending on the types of financial assets and liabilities held.
Each of the Groups business units has an established set of policies, principles and governance processes to manage market risk within their individual businesses and in accordance with their local regulatory requirements.
A monitoring process established at a Group level overlies these individual approaches to the management of market risk.
The impacts of changes in market risk are monitored and managed by way of sensitivity analyses, through the business units own regulatory processes, with reference to the Groups economic capital processes, and by other means.
The sensitivity of the Groups earnings, capital position and embedded value is monitored through the Groups embedded value reporting processes.
ii Insurance operations For the Groups insurance operations, equity and property price risk and interest rate risk on the value of the securities are modelled in accordance with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
In South Africa the stock selection and investment analysis process is supported by a well-developed research function.
For xed annuities, market risks are managed where possible by investing in xed interest securities with a duration closely corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on policies that include specic guarantees and where shareholders carry the investment risk, principally reside in the South African guaranteed non-profit annuity book, which is closely matched with gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies are also suitably matched based upon comprehensive investment guidelines.
Market risk on with-profit policies, where investment risk is shared, is minimised by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
In the US, for xed annuities, risk is managed by investing in xed securities with durations within a half-year of the duration of the liabilities.
Cash ows in any period are closely aligned to ensure any mismatch is not material.
In addition, extensive interest rate scenario testing is carried out, as required by US regulatory authorities, in order to ensure that the amounts reserved are sufficient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
The guaranteed returns provided under equity indexed annuities are hedged to ensure a close matching of option or futures payoffs to the liability growth.
Hedging is largely static with minimal trading.
For variable annuities, the guaranteed returns provided are dynamically hedged.
Hedging positions are reviewed daily to re-adjust them as necessary.
For the variable annuity business in Old Mutual Bermuda the guaranteed returns are no longer dynamically hedged, with instead the overall exposures to changes in markets monitored closely so that actions are taken to re-establish hedging at short notice as required.
However this does create more short-term risk of volatility in earnings and capital for the Bermuda operation.
In Skandias unit-linked assurance operations, the Group has limited exposure to the volatility from equity markets, because in the main, equity price risk is borne by policyholders subject to the impact on asset-based fees charged on policyholder funds.
In respect of Skandias shareholders funds, equity price risks are addressed in Skandias investment policy, which provides for very limited opportunity for business units to invest their own capital in equities or in units in equity funds.
In some areas of Skandias business, most notably its traditional life insurance business, Skandia is exposed to market risks arising from various forms of guarantees.
Typically the policyholder is guaranteed a certain return regardless of the asset return achieved during the term of the policy.
These risks are closely monitored and mitigated by applying asset and liability management techniques, ensuring that the proceeds from sale of assets are sufficient to meet the obligations to policyholders.
Sensitivities to adverse impacts of changes in market prices arising in the Groups insurance operations are set out in the Old Mutual audited Market Consistent Embedded Value supplementary basis information section of the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 374 to 383. iii Banking operations The principal market risks arising in the Groups banking operations arise from: Q Trading risk in Nedbank Capital: and Q Banking book interest rate risk arises from re-pricing and or maturity mismatches between on and off-balance sheet components in all banking businesses.
A comprehensive market risk framework is used to ensure that market risks are understood and managed.
Governance structures are in place to achieve effective independent monitoring and management of market risk.
Old Mutual plc 247 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Trading risk Market risk exposures from trading activities at Nedbank Capital are measured using Value-at-Risk VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis, and stress-scenario analysis, and limit structures are set accordingly.
The VaR risk measure for Nedbank estimates the potential loss in pre-tax profit over a given holding period for a specified confidence level.
The VaR methodology is a statistically dened, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities as well as risk diversication by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between products and markets.
Risks can be measured consistently across all markets and products, and risk measures can be aggregated to arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99% VaR number used by Nedbank represents the overnight loss that has less than 1% chance of occurring under normal market conditions.
By its nature, VaR is only a single measure and cannot be relied upon on its own as a means of measuring and managing risk.
m At 31 December 2010 Average Minimum Maximum Year end Historical VaR one-day, 99% by risk type Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.4 Interest rate 0.9 0.4 1.4 0.6 Equity products 0.4 0.1 0.9 0.3 Other 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.4 Diversication 0.7 0.6 Total VaR exposure 1.2 0.7 3.5 1.1 m At 31 December 2009 Average Minimum Maximum Year end Historical VaR one-day, 99% by risk type Foreign exchange 0.3 0.1 0.9 0.3 Interest rate 1.40.6 2.40.6 Equity products 0.5 0.2 1.1 0.3 Other 0.5 0.2 1.1 0.4 Diversication 1.0 0.5 Total VaR exposure 1.7 1.1 5.5 1.1 Banking book interest rate risk Banking book interest rate risk at Nedbank arises because: Q The bank writes a large quantum of prime-linked assets and raises fewer prime-linked deposits.
Q Funding is prudently raised across the curve at xed-term deposit rates that re-price only on maturity.
Q Short-term demand-funding products re-price to different short-end base rates.
Q Certain ambiguous maturity accounts are non-rate-sensitive.
Q The bank has a mismatch in net non-rate-sensitive balances, including shareholders funds, that do not re-price for interest rate changes.
Nedbank uses standard analytical techniques to measure interest rate sensitivity within its banking book.
This includes static re-price gap analysis and a point-in-time interest income stress testing for parallel interest rate moves over a forward-looking 12-month period.
At 31 December 2010 the sensitivity of the banking book to a 1% instantaneous reduction in interest rates would have led to a reduction in net interest income and equity of 44 million 2009: 44 million.
248 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The table below shows the re-pricing prole of Nedbanks banking book, which highlights the fact that assets re-price quicker than liabilities following derivative hedging activities.
The majority of Skandiabankens deposit taking and lending activity, after risk coverage, is short-term, which means that interest rates are changed to reect the situation in the money market.
The interest rate risk that arises from mismatching of xed rates of interest is reduced through interest rate swap agreements.
Old Mutual plc 249 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued d Currency risk The Group is exposed to effects of uctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash ows, with currency risk where these are not effectively matched.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Groups presentation currency is GBP, whereas other than for the UK operations the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African rand, US dollar, Swedish krona and euro.
The Group reduces this risk through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such risk mitigation techniques are reected in the currency analyses that follow.
Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd OMB shareholder funds and client assets are invested in US dollar denominated bonds, mutual funds, money market securities and cash.
Where selected, OMB provides minimum guarantees, also denominated in US dollar.
However, a significant portion of the underlying assets invested in by OMBs clients are exposed to currencies other than the US dollar.
OMB estimates and tracks this exposure on a daily basis and, depending on the hedging strategy employed, seeks to mitigate the exposure to a greater or lesser extent.
The table below shows the Groups statement of financial position by major currency at 31 December 2010. m At 31 December 2010 ZAR GBP USD EUR SEK Other Total Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 719 1,406 1,182 544 977 137 4,965 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 1,066 2 11 1,079 Property, plant and equipment 905 17 18 3 11 61 1,015 Investment property 1,683 341 16 2,040 Deferred tax assets 133 147 55 78 3 416 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 120 26 8 8 162 Deferred acquisition costs 142 751 143 297 55 146 1,534 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 52 907 23 18 982 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 103 19 122 Deposits held with reinsurers 2 2 Loans and advances 43,917 377 1,232 240 5,233 779 51,778 Investments and securities 36,938 29,797 14,734 9,579 11,373 3,732 106,153 Current tax receivable 47 95 617 156 Client indebtedness for acceptances 180 9 1 190 Other assets 1,806 399 1,276 174 230 47 3,932 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,965 209 228 88 10 3 2,503 Cash and cash equivalents 2,020 838 478262 211323 4,132 Non-current assets held for sale 1 6 12,384 12,391 91,799 35,169 31,841 11,250 18,182 5,311 193,552 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 35,599 29,011 10,536 10,241 9,306 3,938 98,631 General insurance liabilities 362 35 397 Third-party interests in consolidation of funds 672 1,857 161 894 3,584 Borrowed funds 2,758 792 43 611 4,204 Provisions 185 74 5 23 38 11 260 Deferred revenue 29 457 184 60 730 Deferred tax liabilities 382 124 228 95 29 858 Current tax payable 101 83 32976 238 Other liabilities 3,969 762 290 180 257 203 5,661 Liabilities under acceptances 180 9 1 190 Amounts owed to bank depositors 44,226 565 1,056 407 5,965 1,017 53,236 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,273 134 292 72 99 1,870 Non-current liabilities held for sale 12,219 12,219 89,736 33,859 24,643 11,955 16,585 5,300 182,078 250 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m At 31 December 2009 ZAR GBP USD EUR SEK Other Total Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 608 1,523 1,267 661 1,013 87 5,159 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 843 35 4 882 Property, plant and equipment 738 21 22 5 6 36 828 Investment property 1,518 223 18 1,759 Deferred tax assets 83 19 329 30 104 5 570 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 102 26 7 135 Deferred acquisition costs 129 696 1,894 347 43 29 3,138 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 32 772 475746 1,296 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 107 13 120 Deposits held with reinsurers 3 143 146 Loans and advances 35,077 533 1,586 92 1,979 3,126 42,393 Investments and securities 29,483 30,685 18,690 5,983 10,530 3,090 98,461 Current tax receivable 52 93 17 2 6 170 Client indebtedness for acceptances 140 10 19 169 Other assets 1,137 223 1,302 155 188 46 3,051 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,381 100 1,020 34 9 2 2,546 Cash and cash equivalents 790 844 483 319 422 124 2,982 Non-current assets held for sale 1 1 72,224 35,793 27,228 7,669 14,300 6,592 163,806 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 28,509 30,204 18,920 7,171 6,318 2,754 93,876 General insurance liabilities 344 28 372 Third-party interests in consolidation of funds 531 1,507 206 662 2,906 Borrowed funds 1,941 750 31 583 4 3,309 Provisions 156 63 17 20 7 263 Deferred revenue 28 421 190 15 654 Deferred tax liabilities 337 162 126 154 109 17 905 Current tax payable 81 85 16 2 15 11 210 Other liabilities 2,507 100 742 382 229 345 4,305 Liabilities under acceptances 140 10 20 170 Amounts owed to bank depositors 35,471 778 1,572 179 2,803 3,332 44,135 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,092 815 7 76 1,990 71,137 34,070 22,455 8,708 10,216 6,509 153,095 The Group reduces the risk to foreign currency uctuations through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
There are no direct exposures to the unit linked investments and related policyholder liabilities.
Taking these risk mitigation techniques into account a 10% appreciation in the GBP would result in a reduction to equity holders funds in relation to the USD of 711 million 2009: 318 million, EUR increase of 8 million 2009: reduction of 42 million, SEK reduction of 124 million 2009: reduction of 352 million and ZAR reduction of 192 million 2009: an increase in consolidated equity holders funds of 99 million.
A 10% deterioration in the value of the major currencies shown above in relation to GBP as set out in note C2 would have led to a reduction in profit after tax of 90 million 2009: 48 million gain.
Old Mutual plc 251 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E2: Credit risk Overall exposure to credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligation resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the financial loss from defaults.
The Groups exposure and credit rating of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
The Group does not have significant credit exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Nedbanks lending portfolio forms the substantial part of the Groups loans and advances, analysed below.
Credit risk represents the most significant risk type facing Nedbank, accounting for over 58.2% of its economic capital requirements.
Nedbanks credit risk prole is managed in terms of its credit risk management framework, which encompasses comprehensive credit policy, mandate limits and governance structures, and is approved by the Nedbank Board.
The other major source of credit risk arises predominantly in the Groups insurance operations portfolios of debt and similar securities along with those portfolios of debt instruments held by the banking operations.
Credit risk for these portfolios is managed with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposures to below investment grade holdings.
Other than the above, the Group has other limited credit risk exposures in respect of amounts due from policyholders, intermediaries and reinsurers.
None of the life assurance operations cedes significant risk through reinsurance and any loans to policyholders are secured on the surrender value of the relevant policies.
The table below represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking into account the value of any collateral obtained.
The total credit exposure also includes potential exposure arising from financial guarantees given by the Group and undrawn loan commitments, which are not yet reected in the Groups statement of financial position.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 882 1,079 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,296 982 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 120 122 Deposits held with reinsurers 146 2 Loans and advances 42,393 51,778 Investments and securities 28,657 32,668 Government and  securities 8,168 9,275 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 20,526 15,930 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,859 3,352 Other 100 115 Other assets 3,004 3,842 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,546 2,503 Cash and cash equivalents 2,982 4,132 Financial guarantees and other credit related contingent liabilities 3,100 3,915 Loan commitments and other credit related commitments 4,602 8,330 Non-current assets held for sale 11,750 117,092 93,739 i Financial collateral The Group takes financial collateral to support exposures in its banking and securities and lending activities.
Collateral held includes cash and debt securities.
Cash collateral is included as part of cash equivalents.
These transactions are entered into under terms and conditions that are standard industry practice to securities borrowing and lending activities.
ii Non-financial collateral The Group takes other physical collateral to recover outstanding lending exposures in the event of the borrower being unable or unwilling to full its obligations.
This includes mortgage over property both residential and commercial, and liens over business assets including, but not limited to plant, vehicles, aircraft, inventories and trade debtors and guarantees from parties other than the borrower.
The Group has not disclosed the fair value of collateral held as it is not practicable to do so.
A further analysis of credit risk is provided in notes E3, E4, E6 and F5.
252 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information E3: Loans and advances a Summary The following table shows an analysis of loans and advances: m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Home loans 16,474 18,924 Commercial mortgages 6,409 8,376 Properties in possession 74 64 Credit cards 657 809 Overdrafts 1,035 1,556 Policyholder loans 263 249 Other loans to clients 4,513 5,332 Preference shares and debentures 1,396 1,994 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 6,603 5,381 Gross investment 5,761 6,976 Unearned finance charges 373 380 Factoring accounts 183 311 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 24 14 Term loans 5,852 7,304 Remittances in transit 9 11 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 1,335 955 Gross loans and advances 43,225 52,882 Provisions for impairment Specic provisions 660 886 Portfolio provision 218 172 Total net loans and advances 51,778 42,393 Non-performing loans included above had a book value less impairment provisions of 1,729 million 2009: 1,616 million.
Of the loans and advances shown above, 15,865 million 2009: 13,038 million is receivable within one year of the reporting date and is regarded as current.
35,913 million 2009: 29,355 million is regarded as non-current based on the maturity prole of the assets.
The table below gives an age analysis of loans and advances representing primarily the exposures of the Groups banking operations.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Neither past due nor impaired 46,584 37,670 Past due but not impaired 3,683 3,279 Past due but less than 1 month 3,075 2,631 Past due, greater than 1 month but less than 3 months 481 566 Past due, greater than 3 months but less than 6 months 75 28 Past due, greater than 6 months but less than 1 year 24 36 Past due more than 1 year 28 18 Impaired loans and advances individually impaired 2,615 2,276 Gross loans and advances 52,882 43,225 Provisions for impairment 1,104 832 Total net loans and advances 51,778 42,393 Old Mutual plc 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E3 Loans and advances continued The neither past due nor impaired loans and advances can be further analysed by credit rating as follows: m At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2009 SubSubInvestment investment Investment investment grade grade Not rated Total grade grade Not rated Total Home loans 220 9,358 3,980 13,558 923 10,145 4,830 15,898 Commercial mortgages 493 5,572 15 6,080 2,153 5,936 20 8,109 Credit cards 91 434 44 569 121 542 9 672 Overdrafts 58 500 204 762 297 710 261 1,268 Policyholder loans 484 484 160 83 243 Other loans to clients 2,926 1,317 134 4,377 3,544 1,332 252 5,128 Preference shares and debentures 422 3,762 183 4,367 728 4,601 91 5,420 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 649 735 1,384 1,376 521 14 1,911 Factoring accounts 181 181 308 308 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 13 11 24 68 14 Term loans 3,988 1,075 80 5,143 5,163 934 171 6,268 Remittances in transit 5 49 811 10 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 1,307 28 1,335 732 732 Gross loans and advances 15,786 25,066 5,732 46,584 9,597 22,945 5,128 37,670 Collateral is held as security against certain loans and advances detailed above, with this principally consisting of cash, properties and letters of credit.
Movements in provisions for impairment of loans and advances are analysed as follows: m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Specic Portfolio Total Specic Portfolio Total impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment Loans and advances Balance at beginning of the year 660 172 832 407 172 579 Income statement charge credit 598 21 619 565 19 546 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 67 67 35 35 Amounts written off against the provision 484 484 378 378 Foreign exchange and other movements 179 25 204 101 19 120 Balance at end of the year 886 218 1,104 660 172 832 The majority of loans and advances are in respect of Nedbank, which believes it has continued to make good progress in improving asset quality.
In local currency terms Nedbank experienced a reduction in the impairment charge for the year driven mostly by its retail division, particularly in the secured portfolios that had lagged the recovery in the unsecured portfolios.
Lower interest rates and the stabilising of job losses contributed to the retail credit loss improving signicantly in the year.
Nedbank further strengthened its provisioning by reducing certain security assumptions in specic impairments and lengthening the emergence periods.
The credit portfolios in Nedbanks corporate banking business and wealth divisions are believed to be of a high quality and credit loss ratios remained within or below the respective target levels.
Impairments for the capital division increased in the higher risk private equity portfolio.
During the year under review, the Group recognised collateral to the amount of 64 million 2009: 74 million in the statement of financial position.
254 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information b Finance lease and instalment debtors m Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments receivable lease payments receivable At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Amounts receivable under finance leases Within one year 1,851 974 1,752 843 In the second to fifth years inclusive 4,703 4,771 4,451 4,525 After five years 422 16 400 13 6,976 5,761 6,603 5,381 Less: unearned finance income 373 380 Present value of minimum lease payments receivable 6,603 5,381 6,603 5,381 The accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable is 230 million 2009: 134 million.
E4: Investments and securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Government and  securities 8,168 9,275 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 15,930 20,526 Listed 14,821 11,356 Unlisted 4,574 5,705 Equity securities 25,453 19,986 Listed 23,202 18,496 2,251 1,490 Unlisted Pooled investments 52,043 45,807 Listed 5,741 8,591 Unlisted 43,452 40,066 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,859 3,352 Other 100 115 Total investments and securities 106,153 98,461 Investments and securities are regarded as current and non-current assets based on the intention with which the financial assets are held as well as their contractual maturity prole.
Of the amounts shown above, 55,650 million 2009: 48,226 million is regarded as current and 50,503 million 2009: 50,235 million is regarded as non-current.
a Debt instruments and similar securities The following table shows an age analysis of the portfolio of debt instruments and similar securities: m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Neither past due nor impaired 28,648 32,346 Past due but not impaired 9 Impaired 322 Total debt instruments and similar securities 28,657 32,668 Old Mutual plc 255 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued The following table shows an analysis of the carrying values of the Groups portfolio of debt and similar securities according to their credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent, by investment grade.
m Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and At 31 December 2010 securities debentures securities Other Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 7,094 8,429 2,162 6 17,691 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 113 113 Not rated 2,181 7,388 1,190 94 10,853 9,275 15,930 3,352 100 28,657 Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and At 31 December 2009 securities debentures securities Other Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 6,324 15,745 2,193 24,262 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 696 696 Not rated 1,844 4,085 1,666 115 7,710 8,168 20,526 3,859 115 32,668 In general, no collateral is taken in respect of the Groups holdings of debt instruments and similar securities.
E5: Securities lending The Group participates in securities lending where securities holdings are lent to third parties.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated balance sheet but are retained within the relevant investment classication.
Collateral is held in respect of the loaned securities, with the level of holding in relation to the underlying securities lent being dependant on the quality of collateral.
The table below represents the amounts lent and the related collateral received.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Amounts lent under securities lending Equity 626 700 Debt securities 447 230 1,147 856 Amounts received as collateral for securities lending Cash 782 1,131 Debt securities 16 74 1,147 856 The cash collateral above has been recognised in the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability to return the collateral included in other liabilities.
Of the collateral included in the table above, 1,147 million 2009: 856 million can be sold or repledged and nil 2009: nil has been sold or repledged.
In addition the Group has provided 164 million in cash collateral 2009: 1 million and nil in debt securities collateral 2009: 92 million under repurchase arrangements.
256 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information E6: Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities The Group utilises the following derivative instruments for both hedging and non-hedging purposes: Q Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or underlying equities, or indices or interest rates or buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a specified price established in an organised financial market an Exchange.
Since futures contracts are collateralised by cash or marketable securities and changes in the futures contract value are settled daily with the Exchange, the credit risk is negligible.
Q Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated interest rate contracts that call for a cash settlement at a future date for the difference between a contracted rate of interest and the current market rate, based on a notional principal amount.
Q Forward foreign exchange contracts are individually negotiated contracts that require settlement of the pre-agreed currency amounts at a future date.
Q Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash ows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates or a combination of both i. e. cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Except for certain currency swaps, no exchange of principal takes place.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligation.
This risk is monitored continuously with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Q Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, options are contractual agreements under which the writer grants the holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a specic amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument or amount of assets determined by reference to an index at a predetermined price.
In consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, interest rate or asset price risk, the seller receives a premium from the purchaser.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer over-the-counter.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the statement of financial position, but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash ows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become in-the-money or out-of-the-money as a result of uctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or asset prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are in-the-money or out-of-the-money and, therefore, the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can uctuate signicantly from time to time.
The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end.
These instruments allow the Group and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their credit, equity market, foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
Old Mutual plc 257 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued m Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative At 31 December 2010 values values Assets Liabilities Equity derivatives Options written 539 52 82 Options purchased 612 240 70 Futures 152 59818 764 1,137 293 160 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 6,983 6,558 496 218 Swaps 1,383 877 208 161 Options purchased 334 15 Futures 1 127 Options written 319 10 8,701 7,754 592 389 Interest rate contracts Swaps 18,950 15,099 716 737 Forward rate agreements 10,973 9,537 17 15 Options purchased 300 128 Options written 238 Futures 566 693 99 96 Caps 72 354 9 9 30,861 25,921 969 857 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 172 10 168 10 Credit default swaps 321 57052 493 580 173 12 Other derivatives 365 615 476 452 Total 41,184 36,007 2,503 1,870 m Notional principals Fair values At 31 December 2009 Positive values Negative values Assets Liabilities Equity derivatives Options written 758 6 166 Options purchased 976 39 217 12 Futures 599 10631 1,575 903 226 179 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 6,420 6,255 1,237 1,013 Swaps 1,619 712 177 88 Options purchased 368 13 Futures 7 5 Options written 368 12 8,414 7,340 1,427 1,113 Interest rate contracts Swaps 16,820 15,310 555 570 Forward rate agreements 3,644 5,363 5 8 Options purchased 1,663 1,163 167 1 Options written 391 9 Futures 864 1,552 81 74 Caps 195 580 11 9 23,186 24,359 819 671 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 65 127 73 5 Credit default swaps 65 127 73 5 Other derivatives 8 1 22 Total 33,248 32,729 2,546 1,990 258 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E6: Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities continued The contractual maturities of the derivative liabilities held are as follows: m More than No Carrying Less than 3 months less Between More than contractual At 31 December 2010 amount 3 months than 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years maturity date Total Derivative financial liabilities 1,870 570 278 541 538 1,927 m More than No Carrying Less than 3 months less Between More than contractual At 31 December 2009 amount 3 months than 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years maturity date Total Derivative financial liabilities 1,990 811 421 388 344 1,964 E7: Hedge accounting Cash ow hedges Cash ow hedge accounting was applied in respect of the Groups exposures to foreign currency risk.
The Group hedged its foreign currency risk on one of its existing euro loan borrowings by entering into foreign currency swaps for USD.
These swaps were separated, for accounting purposes, into a EUR GBP swap and a GBP USD swap.
Cash ow hedge accounting was applied to the EUR GBP swap.
At 31 December 2010 the EUR GBP swaps had a notional principal of nil nil 2009: 27 million 30 million and a fair value of nil 2009: 5 million.
At 31 December 2010 the cash ow hedge reserve was nil 2009: 2 million.
The cash ow hedge reserve is included in Other reserves in the statement of changes in equity.
There was no ineffectiveness in respect of either of the above cash ow hedges during the financial year 2009: nil.
Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and debt raised in the currency of the exposure to mitigate the translation effect of holding overseas companies.
The following table summarises the Groups open positions with respect to financial instruments utilised for net investment hedging purposes.
There was no ineffectivness in respect of the net investment hedges during the financial year 2009: nil.
At 31 December 2010 EUR USD ZAR SEK Open positions Forward contracts 164 1 Currency swaps 313 391 2 Debt 32 10 345 174 391 At 31 December 2009 EUR USD ZAR SEK Open positions Forward contracts 113 95 1 Currency swaps 321 353 2 Debt 31 55 113 352 150 353 1 Excludes $nil 2009: $35 million of currency swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
2 Excludes $750 million and 500 million 2009: $750 million and 500 million of financial instruments accounted as non-controlling interests or as equity.
An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as net investment hedges is shown in the table below: m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Fair value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges at the reporting date ZAR forward foreign exchange contracts 4 11 300 million cross currency swap 53 89 750 million cross currency swap 65 53 165 110 The ZAR forwards are designated as hedges against the foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in its South African operations.
The 300 million cross currency swap is used to hedge SEK currency risk on SEK based assets in the Groups net investment in Skandia.
The GBP to USD 246 million to $486 million leg of the 750 million cross currency swap is used to hedge USD currency risk on the USD based assets in the Groups net investment in US operations.
Old Mutual plc 259 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Life assurance policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 27,549 539 27,010 19,177 141 19,036 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 57,372 717 56,655 69,538 821 68,717 Other investment contracts 1,859 1,859 1,145 1,145 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,639 6,639 8,249 8,249 Outstanding claims 522 20 502 457 40 417 98,631 982 97,649 93,876 1,296 92,580 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 49 10 39 61 12 49 Unearned premiums 94 38 56 109 51 58 Outstanding claims 227 59 168 229 72 157 397 122 275 372 120 252 Life assurance policyholder and general insurance liabilities 99,028 1,104 97,924 94,248 1,416 92,832 Of the 1,104 million 2009: 1,416 million included in reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder and general insurance liabilities is an amount of 1,051 million 2009: 919 million which is classied as current, the remainder being non-current.
Of the 2 million 2009: 146 million included in deposits held with reinsurers 2 million 2009: 110 million is classied as current, with no non-current deposits in 2010.
Movements in the amounts outstanding in respect of life assurance policyholder liabilities, other than outstanding claims, are set out below.
a Insurance contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Balance at beginning of the year 27,549 539 27,010 28,106 550 27,556 Income Premium income 1,999 67 1,932 2,549 158 2,391 Investment income 1,989 1,989 1,623 1,623 Other income 3 3 5 5 Expenses Claims and policy benets 2,268 70 2,198 3,369 165 3,204 Operating expenses 472 472 372 372 Currency translation loss gain 2,059 6 2,053 97 44 53 Other charges and transfers 601 36 637 594 48 642 Taxation 1 1 19 19 Transfer to operating profit 293 12 305 283 8 275 Discontinued operations 10,787 449 10,338 Balance at end of the year 19,177 141 19,036 27,549 539 27,010 260 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information b Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts, and other investment contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Balance at beginning of the year 59,231 47,126 New contributions received 10,250 9,822 Maturities 701 656 Withdrawals and surrenders 6,788 5,703 Fair value movements 6,619 8,345 Foreign exchange and other movements 297 2,860 Discontinued operations 788 Balance at end of the year 70,683 59,231 Of the liabilities shown in the above table, nil 2009: 1,178 million are recorded at amortised cost with the remainder being designated as fair value through the income statement.
c Discretionary participating investment contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Balance at beginning of the year 5,647 6,639 Income Premium income 659 855 Investment income 774 895 Currency translation losses 1,107 867 2,857 2,300 Expenses Claims and policy benets 1,050 1,024 Operating expenses 68 85 Other charges and transfers 145 61 Taxation 7 4 1,177 1,267 Transfer to operating profit 70 41 Balance at end of the year 8,249 6,639 Old Mutual plc 261 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities continued d Contractual maturity analysis The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash ows based on contractual maturity dates for investment contract liabilities and discretionary participating financial instruments, and expected claim dates for insurance contracts.
The Group acknowledges that for general insurance the unearned premium provision, which will be recognised as earned premium in the future, will most likely not lead to claim cash outows equal to this provision.
The Group has however adopted a conservative approach in estimating future cash outows associated with unearned premiums, by assuming a 100% combined ratio.
m Undiscounted cash ows More than Carrying Less than 3 months less Between More than At 31 December 2010 amount 3 months than 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total Life assurance Insurance contracts 19,177 1,572 1,744 9,271 24,658 37,245 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 69,538 59,173 888 2,227 6,790 69,078 Other investment contracts 1,145 740 77 264 236 1,317 Discretionary participating investment contracts 8,249 7,415 7,415 Outstanding claims 522 406 29 57 31 523 98,631 69,306 2,738 11,819 31,715 115,578 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 61 26 30 5 61 Unearned premium 109 56 51 2 109 Outstanding claims 227 88 100 39 227 397 170 181 46 397 99,028 69,476 2,919 11,865 31,715 115,975 m Undiscounted cash ows More than Carrying Less than 3 months less Between More than At 31 December 2009 amount 3 months than 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total Life assurance Insurance contracts 27,549 920 2,454 13,360 30,465 47,199 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 57,372 52,324 469 1,005 3,583 57,381 Other investment contracts 1,859 36 675 614 840 2,165 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,639 6,398 6,398 Outstanding claims 457 454 18 40 53 565 93,876 60,132 3,616 15,019 34,941 113,708 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 49 32 10 7 49 Unearned premium 94 61 19 14 94 Outstanding claims 229 149 46 34 229 372 242 75 55 372 94,248 60,374 3,691 15,074 34,941 114,080 e Assumptions Insurance contract provisions together with provisions for investment contracts with discretionary participating features are calculated based upon assumptions determined in accordance with local accounting requirements.
As described in the accounting policies, these vary signicantly between geographies and are therefore discussed separately below.
262 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information South Africa In the calculation of liabilities, provision has been made for: Q The current best estimate of future experience, as described below.
Q The compulsory margins as set out in the Actuarial Society professional guidance notes and FSB board notices.
Q Discretionary margins reecting mainly the excess of capital charges over the compulsory investment margin of 0.25% for policies that are valued prospectively.
These discretionary margins cause capital charges to be included in operating profits as they are charged and ensure that profits are released appropriately over the term of each policy.
Other discretionary margins, mainly held to cover: Q Mortality, lapse and investment return margins for Group Schemes funeral policies, due to the additional risk associated with this business, and to ensure that profit is released appropriately over the term of the policies.
Q Mortality margins on Individual Business life policies, accidental death supplementary benets, and disability supplementary benets, due to uncertainty about future experience.
Q Margins on certain Individual Business non-profit annuities, due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the limited availability of long-dated bonds, and to provide for longevity risk.
Q Expense margins in the pricing basis for Employee Benets annuities.
Q Interest margins on Employee Benets PHI claims in payment due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the high rate of change in the portfolio high volume of new claimants and terminations.
Q Margins on the investment guarantee reserves to mitigate the sensitivity of the reserves calculated on a market-consistent basis to market swap yield curves in particular.
Liabilities include provisions to meet financial options and guarantees on a market-consistent basis, and make due allowance for potential lapses, paid-ups and surrenders, based on levels recently experienced.
Mortality and disability rates assumed are consistent with Old Mutuals recent experience, or expected future experience if this would result in a higher liability.
In particular, allowance has been made for the expected deterioration in assured lives experience due to AIDS, and for the expected improvement in annuitant mortality.
The provision for expenses before allowing for margins starts at a level consistent with recent experience and allows for an escalation thereafter.
The future gross investment returns by major asset categories and expense ination excluding margins assumed for South Africa insurance business are as follows: % At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Fixed interest securities 9.5 8.5 Cash 7.5 6.5 Equities 13.0 12.0 Properties 10.0 11.0 Future expense ination 5.5 6.5 7.5% 2009: 8.5% for Individual Business administered on old platforms and 6.5% 2009: 7.5% for Group Schemes business.
For non-profit annuities, liabilities are determined by calculating the present value of projected future benets and expenses, valued using current xed-interest or swap curve yield curves.
Old Mutual plc 263 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Assumptions are based upon experience as analysed in the following investigations: Business unit Type of investigation Period of investigation Individual Business Flexi business mortality 2003 to 2006 Conventional business mortality 1999 to 2000 Annuitant mortality 2005 to 2006 Greenlight mortality 2001 to 2009 Dread Disease 2000 to 2002 Disability 2000 to 2002 Persistency Flexi and Conventional 2008 Persistency Greenlight 2003 to 2009 Group Schemes Mortality 2009 Persistency 2009 to 2010 Employee Benets Annuitant Mortality 2005 to 2009 PHI claim terminations 2006 to 2009 Group Assurance mortality and disability Ongoing for the purpose of setting scheme rates experience All Expenses For all business units the expense assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis In addition to these detailed experience investigations, the 2010 analysis of profit provides a measure of the aggregate experience in 2010.
During this valuation period, actual decrement experience was in aggregate more favourable than the valuation assumptions, excluding special project expenditure.
Various actuarial assumption changes have been made which largely offset each other.
These let to a net increase in the value of liabilities of 1 million 2009: 61 million decrease in liabilities.
The biggest assumption changes in 2010 were 1 higher retail annuitant mortality assumptions which reduced liabilities by 24 million, and 2 lower economic assumptions which increased liabilities by 19 million.
United States Insurance contract provisions and Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC balances for traditional insurance products with xed premiums and benets measured according to FAS 60 under US GAAP are calculated using mortality, lapse, expense and discount assumptions as at inception of the contract.
These assumptions are determined based on managements best estimate, reecting actual and expected experience, and also include provision for adverse deviation.
The assumptions are locked in as of the date of issue, and are revised only where liability adequacy testing based on current best estimate assumptions results in loss recognition.
For insurance products with exible premiums or benets measured according to FAS 97 under US GAAP, the account value is held as the base insurance contract provision, and the assumptions below are therefore not applicable.
DAC balances, and additional reserves held for items including lapse guarantees, persistency bonuses and gains followed by losses, utilise best estimate assumptions as of the valuation date.
Mortality rates vary by gender and issue age: lapse rates vary by issue age and duration.
Bermuda For insurance products with exible premiums or benets measured according to FAS 97 under US GAAP, the account value is held as the base insurance contract provision.
For the variable annuity contracts, DAC balances, and additional reserves are held for items including death and living benefit lapse guarantees, persistency bonuses and gains followed by losses, utilising a fair value method, are held using best estimate assumptions as of the valuation date.
For xed annuities, reserves are held at amortised cost.
Mortality rates vary by gender and issue age: lapse rates vary by issue age and duration with an additional variation by moneyness level for variable annuity policies with living benefit guarantees.
Europe Insurance contract provisions for the Groups Europe life assurance operations are limited, and principally comprise technical provisions for pure disability and death benefit cover sold in the United Kingdom and Scandinavia, together with death benefit risk cover in respect of unit-linked assurance products across all of our European territories.
There are also technical provisions for healthcare which is sold in Scandinavia.
f Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneciary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
Insurance risk includes mortality and morbidity risk in the case of life assurance or risk of loss from re, accident, or other source in the case of general insurance.
264 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Insurance risk arises through exposure to unfavourable claims experience on life assurance, critical illness and other protection business and exposure to unfavourable operating experience in respect of factors such as persistency levels and management expenses.
Uncertainty in persistency, expenses and mortality & morbidity claim rates, relative to the actuarial assumptions made in the pricing process, may prevent the rm from achieving its profit objectives.
For accounting purposes insurance risk is dened as risk other than financial risk.
Contracts issued by the Group may include both insurance and financial risk: contracts with significant insurance risk are classied as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insignicant insurance risk are classied as investment contracts.
The Group has developed a risk policy which sets out the practices which are used to manage insurance risk and the management information and stress testing requirements.
The policy is cascaded to all entities across the Group who each have their own risk policy suite aligned to the Group.
As well as management of persistency, expense and claims experience, the risk policy sets requirements and standards on matters such as underwriting and claims management practices, and the use of reinsurance to mitigate insurance risk.
The insurance risk prole and experience is closely monitored to ensure that the exposure remains acceptable.
The financial impact of insurance risk events is examined through stress tests carried out within the MCEV and IFRS sensitivities, ICA and Economic Capital assessment.
Mortality and morbidity Mortality and morbidity risk is the risk that death, critical illness and disability claims are higher than expected within the operations pricing assumptions.
Possible causes are unexpected epidemics of new diseases and widespread changes in lifestyle such as eating, smoking and exercise habits.
For contracts where survival is the insured risk, the most significant factor is continued improvement in medical science and social conditions that increase longevity.
Higher than expected levels of claims will cause emerging profit to be lower than expected.
For unit-linked contracts a risk charge is applied to meet the expected cost of the insured benefit in excess of the unit value.
This risk charge can be altered in the event of significant changes in the expectation for future claims experience, subject to Treating Customers Fairly principles.
The operations manage mortality risks through its underwriting policy and external reinsurance arrangements where its policy is to retain certain types of insurance risks within specified maximum single event loss limits.
Exposures above accepted limits are transferred to reinsurance counterparties.
Persistency Persistency risk is the risk that a policyholder surrenders, transfers or ceases premium payments for their contracts in a volume that has not been expected within the pricing assumptions thereby leading to a reduction in financial profit and an impact on liquidity.
Most insurance contracts can be surrendered before maturity for a cash surrender value.
In order to limit this risk to an acceptable level, charging and commission structures are designed to limit the risk of direct financial loss on surrender.
Persistency statistics are monitored monthly.
Actions may be triggered as a result of higher than expected lapse or withdrawal rates and significant emerging trends.
A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out on an annual basis.
In the short-term, profit is not materially impacted by changes in persistency experience that is reasonably foreseeable.
Expenses Expense risk is the risk that actual expenses exceed expense levels assumed in product pricing.
This may result in emerging profit falling below the Groups profit objectives.
Expense levels are monitored quarterly against budgets and forecasts.
An activity based costing process is used to allocate costs relating to processes and activities to individual product lines.
Some products structures include maintenance charges.
These charges are reviewed annually in light of changes in maintenance expense levels.
This review may result in changes in charge levels, subject to Treating Customers Fairly principles.
Old Mutual plc 265 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities continued Tax Tax risk is the risk that insufficient tax is collected from the policyholders because the projected taxation basis for basic life assurance business is incorrect resulting in contracts being incorrectly priced.
Tax risk also represents potential changes in the interpretation or application of prevailing tax legislation as paid by either policyholders or shareholders, where the detrimental impact is reduced profitability or additional shareholder tax burdens.
The taxation position of the operations is projected annually and tax changes will result in changes to new business pricing models as part of the annual control cycle.
High risk issues and emerging trends are reported internally on a quarterly basis.
i Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Groups exposure to insurance risk varies depending on the nature of its operations and their location.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage insurance risk separately through its principal operations, subject to appropriate central Corporate supervision and monitoring.
The Groups principal operations that incur significant insurance risk are: Q OMLAC SA long-term insurance in South Africa Q Old Mutual US Life long-term insurance in the United States Q Old Mutual Bermuda long-term insurance in Bermuda Q Mutual & Federal general insurance in South Africa Q Skandia Nordic life assurance in Scandinavia Q Skandia Wealth Management life assurance in the UK The Groups other insurance operations include: Q Life assurance in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in Continental Europe and Latin America These do not give rise to significant insurance risks, as the unbundled insurance component of those products is insignicant in comparison to the rest of the Old Mutual Group.
Q Other emerging markets entities in China and India and the rest of Africa except South Africa These do not give rise to significant insurance risks relative to the Group as a whole.
The Group effectively manages its insurance risks through the following mechanisms: Q Having an agreed risk preference for all risk types including those related to insurance.
Q The diversication of business over several classes of insurance and a number of geographical segments and large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks, by which the Group seeks to reduce variability in loss experience.
Q The maintenance and use of sophisticated management information systems, which provide current data on the risks to which the business is exposed and quantication of such risks.
Q Actuarial models, which use the above information to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
Past experience and statistical methods are used.
Q Guidelines for writing insurance contracts and assuming insurance risks.
These include underwriting principles and product pricing procedures.
Q Reinsurance, which is used to limit the Groups exposure to large single claims and catastrophes.
When selecting a reinsurer, consideration is given to those companies that provide high security.
In order to assess this, rating information from both public and private sources is used.
Q The matching of assets, which is driven by the nature and term of the insurance liabilities.
The management of assets and liabilities is closely monitored to ensure that there are sufficient interest bearing assets to match the guaranteed portion of liabilities.
Hedging instruments are used at times to limit exposure to equity market and interest rate movements.
266 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information ii Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business Emerging Markets, Nordic, Wealth Management, US Life and Bermuda The terms and conditions attaching to insurance contracts determine the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
The following tables outline the general form of terms and conditions that apply to contracts sold in each category of business, and the nature of the risk incurred by the Group.
Emerging Markets Policyholder Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees investment return Individual Life Flexi Mortality morbidity rates Mortality, morbidity Some investment Varies business with cover may be repriced regular investment performance, cover and premium contracts annuity guarantees Conventional business Charges xed at inception Mortality, morbidity Some investment Varies with cover and cannot be changed investment performance and annuity guarantees Greenlight Charges xed at inception Mortality, morbidity, Rates xed for a specified None and cannot be changed expense number of years for a specified term Group Schemes funeral Charges xed at inception Mortality including Rates xed for a specified None cover and cannot be changed HIV AIDS, expense number of years for a specified number of years Employee Benets Rates are annually Mortality, morbidity No significant guarantees, None Group Assurance renewable except for PHI claims in payment for which benefit payment schedule is guaranteed Non-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment benefit payment schedule None guaranteed in return for is guaranteed consideration With-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Investment Underlying pricing interest Yes participating in profits in rate is guaranteed.
return for consideration Declared bonuses cannot be reduced The extent of the Groups discretion as to the allocation of investment return to policyholders varies based on the type of contract.
Where the contracts are pure risk type, there is no sharing of investment returns.
For other contracts, investment return is attributed to the policyholder.
Declared bonuses may be either vesting and or non-vesting in which case they can be removed in adverse circumstances.
Smoothed bonus products constitute a significant proportion of the business.
Particular attention is paid to ensuring that the declaration of bonuses is done in a responsible manner, such that sufficient reserves are retained for bonus smoothing purposes.
Investment returns not distributed after deducting charges are credited to bonus smoothing reserves, which are used to support subsequent bonus declarations.
Old Mutual plc 267 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities continued Nordic Policyholder Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees investment return Unit linked with death Mortality rates may be Mortality Premiums for policies None cover re-priced issued before 2002 are subject to pre-dened limits Unit linked with longevity Longevity rates may be Longevity Premiums for policies None risk re-priced issued before 2002 are subject to pre-dened limits Waiver of premium Risk premium rates may be Morbidity Premiums for policies None re-priced issued before 2002 are subject to pre-dened limits Private Health Care One year contracts.
Morbidity None None Re-priced at renewal Personal Accident Group One year contracts.
Morbidity disability None None Re-priced at renewal Wealth Management Policyholder Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees investment return Unit linked life assurance Mortality rates may be Mortality The initial premium is None re-priced guaranteed to sustain the original cover for the first 10 years Unit linked critical illness Morbidity rates may be Morbidity The initial premium is None re-priced guaranteed to sustain the original cover for the first 10 years Non-linked life assurance Premium rates xed at Mortality Rates xed for the life of None and critical illness xed inception the contract term and whole of life Non-linked life assurance Premium rates xed, but Morbidity Rates xed for the first 10 None and critical illness rolling may be re-priced when the years if cover levels are not term term is rolled altered 268 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information US Life Policyholder Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees investment return Life term Renewable term products Mortality, expense Premium guarantees from None offering coverage for level 1 to 30 years, return of periods ranging from 1 to premium guarantees 30 years Universal life Flexible and xed premium Mortality, expense, No lapse guarantees Yes, through the interest sensitive life investment max of 15 years or to crediting rate insurance with cash age 95 : cost of insurance value build up mortality charge guarantees Fixed indexed annuities Single and exible premium Mortality, investment, Minimum caps, maximum Yes, through index accumulation annuities with hedging spread guarantees, credits upside potential of equity minimum interest indexed returns on their guarantees account value Fixed deferred annuities Single and exible premium Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed Limited crediting accumulation annuities accumulation rates and rates are reset at annuitisation rates specified intervals Equity indexed Flexible premium interest Mortality, investment, No-lapse guarantees: Yes, through the universal life sensitive whole life products hedging cost of insurance index and crediting with upside potential of equity mortality charge rates are reset at indexed returns on their guarantees: minimum specified intervals account value and a xed caps: maximum spread account option guarantees Immediate payout Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment benefit payment schedule None guaranteed in return for is guaranteed consideration Variable annuities Accumulation annuities with Mortality, investment, Minimum guaranteed death Yes, through policyholder investments in hedging benefit and minimum separate accounts separate accounts and a guaranteed accumulation and crediting rates xed account option benefit which may include a are reset at specified minimum rate of return or intervals waiver of surrender charges Bermuda Policyholder Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees investment return Variable annuities Accumulation annuities with Mortality, persistency, Minimum guaranteed death Yes, through policyholder investments in market, hedging, volatility, benefit and maturity benefit: separate account separate accounts and a basis risk credited rate guarantee on and credited rates xed account option xed account option on xed account Fixed deferred annuities Single and exible premium Persistency, investment Credited rate over specified Via credited rates accumulation annuities with period and renewal rates on credited rate over specified rate expiration duration Fixed indexed annuities Single premium accumulation Persistency, investment, Market participation with Yes, through index annuities with upside hedging no downside minimum credits potential of equity indexed interest guarantees returns on their account value All business in the Group is subject to the risk that policyholders discontinue the insurance policy, through lapse or surrender.
Old Mutual plc 269 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued iii Management of insurance risks life assurance The table below summarises the variety of risks to which the Groups life assurance operations are exposed, and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate these risks.
Risk Denition Risk management Underwriting Misalignment of policyholders to the Experience is closely monitored.
For universal life appropriate pricing basis or impact of business, mortality rates can be reset.
anti-selection, resulting in a loss Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk HIV AIDS Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality rates and Impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever possible critical illness cover by writing products that allow for repricing on a regular basis or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
Tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values are conducted.
A negative test result is a prerequisite for acceptance at standard rates Longevity Possible increase in annuity costs due to For non-profit annuities, improvements to mortality policyholders living longer are allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-profit annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality profit or loss is reected in the bonuses declared Policyholder behaviour Selection of more expensive options, or Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder lapse and re-entry when premium rates behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation are falling, or termination of policy, which may cause the sale of assets at inopportune times Catastrophe Natural and non-natural disasters, including Catastrophe stop loss excess of loss reinsurance war terrorism, could result in increased treaty in place which covers claims from one mortality risk and payouts on policies incident occurring within a specified period between a range of specified limits Policy lapse Surrender A policyholder option to terminate the policy, Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder which may cause the loss of future earnings or behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation sale of assets at inopportune times Many of the above risks are concentrated, either geographically in the case of catastrophe or by line of business for example, medical developments, HIV AIDS.
The Group, through diversication in the types of business it writes and its geographic spread, attempts to mitigate this concentration of risk.
See section i, in the preceding section, for illustration of this.
270 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information iv Sensitivity analysis life assurance Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract provisions recorded, with impact on profit loss and or shareholders equity.
The effect of a change in assumption is mitigated by the following factors: Q Offset partial or full to the bonus stabilisation reserve in the case of smoothed bonus products in South Africa.
Q Offset partial or full through DAC amortisation in the case of US business.
Q The effect of locked-in assumptions under US GAAP accounting, where assumptions underlying the insurance contract provisions are not changed until liabilities are not adequate after reecting current best estimates.
The net increase or decrease to insurance contract provisions recorded as of 31 December 2010 has been estimated as follows: %mmmm Emerging Wealth Assumption Change Markets Management US Life Bermuda Mortality and morbidity rates assurance 10% 284 3 20 Mortality rates annuities 10 % 61 6 Discontinuance rates 10% 11 3 18 18 Expenses maintenance 10% 68 2 6 2 Emerging Markets The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in charges paid by policyholders.
The insurance contract liabilities recorded for the South African business are also impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1% would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to profit, of 91 million 2009: 58 million.
The valuation interest rate sensitivity reects a change in the valuation interest rates without any corresponding change in investment returns or in the expense ination rate.
It should be noted that where the assets and liabilities of a product are closely matched e. g. non-profit annuity business, the net effect has been shown since the assets and liabilities move in parallel.
Nordic The specified assumptions have an immaterial impact on the Skandia Nordic insurance IFRS contract technical provisions as these are relatively insensitive towards movements in mortality longevity morbidity or interest rates and mainly comprise of reserves that relate to claim reserves and incurred but not reported provisions.
Wealth Management The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated independently using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in premiums paid by policyholders.
The assumption changes have no impact on the linked business within Skandia UK.
Whole of Life is the main product group affected by the lapse assumption change.
This is because the policies have the longest duration and represent close to 85% of the reserve.
The main product groups impacted by the expense, mortality and morbidity sensitivities are Whole of Life and Accelerated Critical Illness.
In the Wealth Management business, non-linked liabilities are fairly well matched by gilts so that the net impact of a valuation interest rate change taking asset and liability movement into account is negligible.
US Life The assumption changes have relatively little impact on the US net IFRS insurance contract liabilities or DAC on life and immediate annuities, as assumptions are generally locked-in.
For universal life and deferred annuities, assumptions supporting the Present Value Future profits PVFP Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation are periodically updated for actual experience.
Each of these assumption changes could trigger a DAC unlocking.
The assumption changes specified above do not approach the levels necessary to trigger a significant change in liabilities or DAC.
There is no impact for a change in the valuation discount rate for US Life as the valuation rate is locked-in.
Old Mutual plc 271 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Bermuda Assumption changes on Bermuda business have counterbalancing effects.
Lapses and partial withdrawals have the largest impact where increased activity reduces future fees and hence impact DAC negatively.
However, such activity helps the guarantee portion of the business since less death and living benefit exposure is expected in the future.
Thus, anti-selective behaviour e. g. business with little or no guarantees redeeming at a faster rate presents the bigger challenge but it is accounted for in both the DAC and guarantee reserve calculations and conservation efforts are underway to retain the less risky business.
Mortality plays a much smaller part in Bermuda since all the business is accumulation savings type business.
Increased deaths do accelerate payment of guaranteed minimum death benets but there is a comparable release of reserve on the maturity guarantee providing an offset about 85% of the variable annuity business has both death living benets.
v Guarantees and options life assurance Many of the insurance contracts issued by the Group contain guarantees and options to policyholders, the ultimate liability for which will depend signicantly on the number of policyholders exercising their options and on market and investment conditions applying at that time.
Emerging Markets Certain life assurance contracts include the payment of guaranteed values to policyholders on maturity, death, disability or survival.
The published liabilities include the provision for both the intrinsic and time-value of the options and guarantees.
The time-value of options and guarantees has been valued using a market-consistent stochastic asset model that is in keeping with the applicable professional guidance notes issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa ASSA, PGN 110 in particular.
The options and guarantees that could have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash ows are described below.
Product category Description of options and guarantees Individual business Death, disability, point and or A closed block of unit-linked type and smoothed bonus business with an underlying minimum maturity guarantees growth rate guarantee 4.28% per annum for life and endowment business and 4.78% per annum for retirement annuity business, and smoothed bonus business with vested bonuses, applicable when calculating death, disability and maturity claims.
A small block of smoothed bonus savings business in Group Schemes that has death guarantees of premiums net of fees plus 4.25% per annum investment return Guaranteed annuity options Retirement annuities sold prior to June 1997 contain guaranteed annuity options, whereby the policyholder has an option to exchange the full retirement proceeds for a minimum level of annuity income at maturity Group business Vested bonuses in respect of There is a significant pre-retirement savings smoothed bonus portfolio.
Vested bonuses affect the pre-retirement with-profits business calculation of benefit payments when a member exits from the scheme as the face value is paid out.
If, however, a scheme terminates, the lower of face and market value is paid out and the vested bonuses are not guaranteed Wealth Management Product category Description of options and guarantees Policyholder position key drivers Unit-linked life assurance and The initial premium is guaranteed to sustain Wealth Management business is predominantly critical illness business the original cover for the first 10 years even if unit-linked life assurance and critical illness the unit fund is depleted to zero.
However, this business where a measure of the policy being guarantee only applies to the initial premium in-the-money is not applicable and cover, not to subsequent increments 272 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information US Life Product category Description of options and guarantees Policyholder position key drivers Death, disability, surrender point Crediting rates declared for the xed 16% of policies are currently in-the-money and and or maturity guarantees deferred annuity block of business vest fully.
being credited the minimum rate.
A 300 basis They are subject to a minimum crediting rate points drop in interest rates would bring 98% of which is specified in the contract.
Minimum policies in-the-money surrender values are determined by this rate Equity indexed annuities offer minimum The minimum surrender values of 18% of policies crediting rates on the xed portion of the are currently in-the-money.
A year of at equity product, minimum surrender values based markets with no equity credits would bring an on this and credit equity participation additional 4% in-the-money.
Two years of no annually as a percentage of equity growth equity credits would result in 28% of the portfolio subject to a maximum %.
The equity exposure is participation, which is subject to a minimum hedged using a hedging strategy of 0% therefore vests annually The universal life policies specify a minimum The minimum rate is currently being credited on crediting rate to accumulate account balances 85% of the block Guaranteed annuity options All deferred annuities offer a guaranteed The extent to which the policies are currently annuitisation option on maturity.
The rates in-the-money is negligible are set conservatively and typically have very low utilisation as customers in the United States value the choice inherent in a lump-sum payment No-Lapse Guarantees Certain universal life contracts contain a 25% of policies are currently in-the-money.
feature that guarantees that the contract will This risk is reinsured continue, even if values would otherwise be insufficient, provided the customer has paid at least a stated amount of premium Bermuda Product category Description of options and guarantees Policyholder position key drivers Index and Credited Rate Guarantees Equity indexed annuities offer minimum For the index annuities approximately 5% of the guaranteed crediting rates on the xed contracts are out-of-the-money, it would require portion of the product, minimum surrender approximately a 3% increase in EuroStox and 6% values and credit equity participation as a increase in Topix to bring them in-the-money ie, percentage of equity growth subject to a an index credit would then be made.
It is maximum percent important to note that static hedges are purchased to reect the risk of in-the-money contracts.
Credited rates declared for the xed deferred annuity block and are guaranteed for specic durations.
Upon expiration, renewal rates are set that reect with updated expected earned yields and competing market rates Death and Maturity Guarantees Both minimum guaranteed death and maturity Approximately 25% of the contracts with a benets are offered as optional riders for maturity benefit are out-of-the-money requiring additional fees.
However, standard GMDBs approximately a 9% decrease in account values are included in the base policy.
The company on average to bring such policies in-the-money guarantees regardless of market performance that the customer or its beneciaries in case of death will receive a minimum value.
Death benets designs are either return of investment or highest anniversary value.
The maturity benets promise a minimum account value at maturity e. g. 105% at year 5 with more elaborate versions offering dual guarantees e. g. UGO guarantee promises at years 5 10 a 105% 120% minimum account value, respectively with a highest anniversary in year 10 if elected Old Mutual plc 273 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities continued vi General insurance risks and sensitivities Mutual & Federal The following types of business is written within the commercial, risk finance and personal divisions: Commercial Risk finance Personal Fire Accident Personal accident Motor Engineering Crop Marine Credit Underwriting guidelines are designed to ensure that underwritten risks are well diversied, and that terms and conditions, including premium rates, appropriately reect the risk.
Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the management of risk and exposure at Mutual & Federal.
The Group makes use of a combination of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact of both individual and event losses and to provide insurance capacity.
Involvement in any property catastrophe loss is limited to approximately 7 million for any one event and the level of catastrophe cover purchased is based on estimated maximum loss scenarios, in keeping with accepted market norms.
General insurance risk includes the following risks: Q Occurrence risk the possibility that the number of insured events will differ from those expected.
Q Severity risk the possibility that the costs of the events will differ from those expected.
Q Development risk the possibility that changes may occur in the amount of an insurers obligation at the end of a contract period.
An increase of 10% in the average cost of claims would require the recognition of an additional loss of 43 million.
Similarly, an increase of 10% in the ultimate number of claims would result in an additional loss of 43 million.
The majority of the Groups general insurance contracts are classied as short-tailed, meaning that any claim is settled within a year after the loss date.
This contrasts with the long-tailed classes where the claims costs take longer to materialise and settle.
The Groups long-tailed business is generally limited to personal accident, third-party motor liability and some engineering classes.
In total the long-tail business comprises less than 5% of an average years claim costs.
g Reinsurance assets credit risk None of the Groups reinsurance assets are either past due or impaired.
Of the reinsurance assets shown in the statement of financial position all are considered investment grade with the exception of 144 million of unrated exposures 2009: 87 million.
Collateral is not taken against reinsurance assets or deposits held with reinsurers other than in limited circumstances.
E9: Borrowed funds m Group At Group At excluding 31 December excluding 31 December Notes Nedbank Nedbank 2010 Nedbank Nedbank 2009 Senior debt securities and term loans E9 a 662 484 1,146 550 1,186 1,736 Mortgage backed securities E9 b 119 119 112 112 Subordinated debt securities net of Group holdings E9 c 1,198 1,158 2,356 1,034 1,010 2,044 Borrowed funds 1,748 2,456 4,204 1,696 1,613 3,309 Other issues treated as equity for accounting purposes US$750 million cumulative preference securities F11 b 458 458 500 million perpetual preferred callable 338 securities F10 b 338 350 million perpetual preferred callable securities F10 b 350 350 Total: Book value 2,894 2,842 Nominal value of the above 3,045 3,162 274 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash ows based on contractual maturity dates for borrowed funds.
Maturity analysis is undiscounted and based on year end exchange rates.
m Group At Group At excluding 31 December excluding 31 December Nedbank Nedbank 2010 Nedbank Nedbank 2009 Less than 1 year 219 156 375 498 323 821 Greater than 1 year and less than 5 years 1,413 1,226 2,639 921 2,164 3,085 Greater than 5 years 880 722 1,602 899 1,033 1,932 Total 2,299 3,209 5,508 2,531 2,415 4,946 a Senior debt securities and term loans Group At Group At excluding 31 December excluding 31 December Nedbank Nedbank 2010 Nedbank Nedbank 2009 1 Floating rate notes 114 265 379 86 720 806 2 Fixed rate notes 548 219 767 462 466 928 3 Revolving credit facility Term loan and other loans 2 2 Total senior debt securities and term loan 550 1,186 1,736 662 484 1,146 Senior debt securities and term loan comprise: 1.
Floating rate notes Nedbank R1,690 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2012 at 3 month JIBAR 1.5%.
R1,044 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2015 at JIBAR 2.20%.
R1,750 million unsecured senior debt repayable March 2013 ination linked 3.9% real yield.
R98 million unsecured senior debt repayable March 2013 ination linked 3.8% real yield.
R1,552 million unsecured senior debt repayable April 2013 JIBAR 1.48%.
R1,027 million unsecured senior debt repayable April 2015 JIBAR 1.75%.
R80 million unsecured senior debt repayable April 2020 JIBAR 2.15%.
Group excluding Nedbank R550 million repayable August 2010 at 3 month ZAR JIBAR-SAFEX 4.5% repaid.
R100 million repayable February 2011 at 3 month ZAR JIBAR-SAFEX 4.5%.
US$50 million repayable September 2011 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.50%.
22 million repayable January 2010 at 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.35% repaid SEK50 million repayable March 2010 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.38% repaid 3 million note repayable in December 2010, with holders having the option to elect for early redemption every six months with coupon referenced against six month LIBOR less 0.50% repaid.
Fixed rate notes Nedbank R130 million unsecured senior debt repayable October 2024 at zero coupon.
R3,244 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2015 at 10.55%.
R762 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2019 at 11.39%.
R478 million unsecured senior debt repayable April 2015 at R157 1.75%.
Group excluding Nedbank 500 million euro bond repayable October 2016 at 7.125%.
US$16.5 million secured senior debt repayable August 2014 at 5.23%.
30 million euro bond repayable July 2010, capital and interest swapped into xed rate US dollars at 5.28% repaid.
10 million euro bond repayable December 2010, capital and interest swapped into oating rate US dollars at 3 month LIBOR 0.95% repaid.
20 million euro bond repayable August 2013, capital and interest swapped into oating rate US dollars at 3 month LIBOR 1.30% repaid.
The total fair value of the swap derivatives associated with the senior notes is nil 2009: 12 million.
These are recognised as assets and are included within note E5.
Revolving credit facilities and irrevocable letters of credit The Group has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2007 syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility until September 2012.
At 31 December 2010 499 million 2009: 480 million of this facility was utilised, nil 2009: nil million in the form of drawn debt and 499 million 2009: 480 million in the form of irrevocable letters of credit.
The Group has committed standby facilities totalling 275 million, which were put in place in December 2010 and have a latest maturity date of 29 June 2012.
The Group has a SEK1,500 million revolving credit facility, which has a maturity date of 1 July 2011.
At 31 December 2010 this facility was undrawn 2009: undrawn.
Old Mutual plc 275 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued b Mortgage backed securities Nedbank m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 R291 million notes class A1 repayable 18 November 2039 11.467% 25 4 R1.4 billion notes class A2A repayable 18 November 2039 11.817% 84 96 R98 million notes class B note repayable 18 November 2039 12.067% 6 7 R76 million notes class C note repayable 18 November 2039 13.317% 5 4 112 119 c Subordinated debt securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Nedbank 1 R1.5 billion repayable 24 April 2016 7.85% 126 148 2 R1.8 billion repayable 20 September 2018 9.84% 149 186 3 R500 million repayable on 30 December 2010 8.38% 41 4 R650 million repayable 8 February 2017 9.03% 55 67 5 R1.7 billion repayable 8 February 2019 8.9% 138 171 6 R2.0 billion repayable 6 July 2022 3 month JIBAR plus 0.47% 171 198 7 R500 million repayable 15 August 2012 3 month JIBAR plus 0.45% 42 49 8 R1.0 billion repayable 17 September 2020 10.54% 84 105 9 R500 million repayable 14 December 2017 3 month JIBAR plus 0.70% 42 49 10 R120 million repayable 14 December 2017 10.38% 10 12 11 R487 million repayable 20 November 2018 15.05% 41 51 12 R1,265 million repayable 20 November 2018 JIBAR plus 4.75% 108 125 13 R300 million repayable on 4 December 2013 JIBAR 2.5% 13 15 14 US$100 million repayable on 3 March 2022 3 month USD LIBOR 65 62 1,241 1,082 Less: banking subordinated debt securities held by other Group companies 83 72 Banking subordinated debt securities net of Group holdings 1,010 1,158 Group excluding Nedbank 15 R3.0 billion repayable 27 October 2015 8.9% 252 293 16 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0% 252 296 17 R250 million preference shares repayable 9 June 2011 repaid 21 18 750 million repayable 18 January 2017 4.5% 609 509 1,198 1,034 Total subordinated liabilities 2,356 2,044 The subordinated notes rank behind the claims against the Group depositors and other unsecured, unsubordinated creditors.
None of the Groups subordinated notes are secured.
Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 24 April 2006 with a call date of 24 April 2011.
Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 20 September 2006 at R1.5 billion with a call date of 20 September 2013.
On 18 May 2007 an additional R0.3 billion was issued.
Unsecured callable Bonds issued 30 March 2006.
Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 with a call date of 8 February 2012.
Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 at R1.0 billion.
On 19 March 2007 an additional R0.7 billion was issued.
Unsecured secondary capital callable note issued 6 July 2007 and has a call date of 6 July 2017.
This bond issued on 15 August 2007 is an unsecured secondary capital callable oating rate note with a call date 15 August 2012.
This bond issued on 17 September 2007 is an unsecured xed rate note with a term of 13 years non-call 8 year.
This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 year oating rate note.
After its call date on 14 December 2012 its terms become JIBAR plus 1.70% until maturity.
This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 year xed rate note.
After its call date its terms become oating 3 month JIBAR plus initial margin over mid swaps plus 1.0% until maturity.
This bond issued on 20 May 2008 is a perpetual non-call 10 year xed rate note with a call date on 20 November 2018.
This bond issued on 20 May 2008 is a perpetual non-call 10 year oating rate note with a call date of 20 November 2018.
This bond issued on 4 December 2008 is a oating rate note with a call date of 4 December 2013.
Dated Tier 2 notes issued 3 March 2009 with call date 2 March 2017.
These bonds have a maturity date of 27 October 2020 and pay a coupon of 8.92% to 27 October 2015 and 3 month JIBAR plus 1.59% thereafter.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 27 October 2015 and at 3 monthly intervals thereafter.
These bonds, issued on 20 January 2006, had a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and paid a coupon of 5.0% to 21 January 2011 and 6 month LIBOR plus 1.13% thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into oating rate of 6 month STIBOR plus 0.50%.
The Group had the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
These bonds were redeemed after the balance sheet date, at the first call date of 21 January 2011.
276 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information 17.
These preference shares were redeemable on 9 June 2011 and paid a variable cumulative coupon of 61.0% of the Prime Rate as quoted by Nedbank Limited.
The Group had the option to redeem the shares at par at any time before the final redemption date but after giving an agreed period of notice, with the Group electing to redeem in 2010.
This bond, issued on 16 January 2007, has a maturity date of 18 January 2017 and pays a coupon of 4.5% to 17 January 2012 and 6 month EURIBOR plus 0.96% thereafter.
The principal and coupon on the bond were swapped equally into Sterling and US Dollars with coupons of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.34% and 6 month US LIBOR plus 0.31% respectively.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 17 January 2012 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
E10: Amounts owed to bank depositors m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Current accounts 9,006 8,016 Savings deposits 1,283 3,731 Other deposits and loan accounts Call and term deposits 14,972 16,464 Fixed deposits 2,345 2,634 Cash management deposits 2,772 4,490 Other 3,800 5,765 Negotiable certicates of deposit 8,704 10,757 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,379 1,253 53,236 44,135 A contractual maturity analysis of the amounts owed to bank depositors is shown in the following table: m More than 3 months Between Carrying Less than less than 1 and 5 More than Year ended 31 December 2010 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 8,016 8,016 8,016 Savings deposits 3,731 3,731 3,731 Other deposits and loan accounts 29,352 23,484 4,313 1,863 216 29,876 Negotiable certicates of deposit 10,758 2,567 6,553 2,337 2 11,459 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,379 1,379 1,379 Amounts owed to bank depositors 53,236 39,177 10,866 4,200 218 54,461 m More than 3 Carrying Less than 3 months less Between 1 and More than 5 Year ended 31 December 2009 amount months than 1 year 5 years years Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 9,006 8,879 107 20 9,006 Savings deposits 1,283 1,283 1,283 Other deposits and loan accounts 23,889 20,099 3,422 1,298 261 25,080 Negotiable certicates of deposit 8,704 2,421 6,233 613 3 9,270 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,253 1,253 1,253 Amounts owed to bank depositors 44,135 33,935 9,762 1,931 264 45,892 E11: Capital management unaudited Overview The Group actively manages its capital with a focus on capital efficiency and effective risk management.
The capital objectives are to maintain the Groups ability to continue as a going concern while enabling the ability to identify capital strains and ensuring that the return to shareholders is maximised through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The Group ensures that it can meet its expected capital and nancing needs at all times having regard to the Groups business plans, forecasts and strategic initiatives.
It is critical that the Groups capital management policies are aligned with the Groups overall strategy, business plans and risk appetite.
The Groups Capital Management Committee GCMC reviews the capital structure regularly.
As part of the review the Committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Based on the recommendations of the Committee, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues, share buybacks as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.
Measures that inform the GCMCs views on the appropriate level of capital for the Group includes shareholder performance objectives, regulatory capital requirements, internal economic capital measures, rating agency expectations and general views on maintaining financial exibility.
Old Mutual plc 277 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The Groups overall capital risk appetite is managed with reference to the requirements of the relevant stakeholders and seeks to maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength to support stakeholder requirements, optimise its overall debt to equity structure to enhance returns to shareholders, subject to the requirements set by the Groups capital risk appetite and retain financial exibility by maintaining liquidity, including unutilised committed credit lines.
The primary sources of capital used by the Group are equity shareholders funds, preference shares, subordinated debt and borrowings.
Alternative resources are utilised where appropriate.
Targets are established in relation to regulatory solvency, ratings, liquidity and dividend capacity and are a key tool in managing capital in accordance with our risk appetite and the requirements of our various stakeholders.
The individual companies in the Group are subject to regulatory capital requirements at an individual level.
In addition the Group as a whole is subject to the solvency requirements of the Financial Groups Directive FGD as implemented by the FSA.
The Group utilises both this measure and economic capital measures to manage its capital position.
Under FGD a continuous company solvency test is applied.
Under this test the surplus capital held in each of the regulated entities is aggregated with the free assets of the nonregulated entities.
Group borrowings are deducted from this total other than subordinated debt issues which qualify as capital.
No credit is given to the benefit of diversication.
The test is passed where the aggregate number is positive.
Due to the geographically diverse nature of the Groups operations there is an added complexity to the application of the FSA capital requirements.
In particular certain regional capital requirements need to be recalculated under the FSA rules as if the companies were directly subject to the FSA capital regime.
The Group met its FGD requirements at 31 December 2010 and throughout the year.
As at the date of issue of these financial statements the unaudited pro-forma surplus was estimated to be 2.1 billion.
The FGD position will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2011.
Capital position statements a Life assurance operations Each of the Groups life assurance businesses is capitalised at a sufciently strong level for their individual circumstances.
The regulatory capital position of the Groups life assurance operations, based on latest estimates that are not audited, is summarised as follows: unaudited m At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2009 South United South United Africa States Europe Africa States Europe Equity shareholders funds 4,447 1,064 5,132 5,386 2,292 5,562 Adjustments to a regulatory basis: Inadmissible assets 19 215 1,106 31 16 1,115 Other adjustments including Group investment in operations 561 1,416 2,407 487 449 2,684 Total available capital resources 3,941 400 1,342 4,794 860 2,040 Total capital requirements local regulatory basis 1,214 445 301 977 303 242 Overall excess of capital resources over requirements 3,580 415 1,739 2,964 97 1,100 unaudited m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 South United South United Africa States Europe Africa States Europe Capital resources at beginning of year 3,183 295 1,267 3,941 400 1,342 Earnings after tax 718 184 376 310 187 254 Change in admissible assets and other adjustments and other movements in reserves 182 318 229 25 257 510 Dividends 281 55 80 37 Foreign exchange movements 648 16 29 503 29 17 Capital resources at end of the year 4,794 860 2,040 3,941 400 1,342 South Africa The amounts disclosed above represent the capital position of OMLAC SA and the life business in Namibia and Medscheme Life.
The calculations are determined in accordance with the requirements of the South African Financial Services Board, using estimates of the regulatory adjustments, as the relevant regulatory returns have yet to be completed or audited.
At 31 December 2010, OMLAC SA s excess assets was 3.9 times 2009: 4.1 times the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement SCAR, after allowing for estimates of statutory limitations on the value of certain assets.
278 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information OMLAC SA s shareholders funds include its investments in Nedbank of 2,193 million 2009: 1,760 million and M&F of 504 million 2009: 366 million.
In addition, 530 million 2009: 690 million is invested in the Groups loan notes and 530 million 2009: 561 million is held in inter-company loans.
All inter-company loans are immediately repayable and subject to commercial terms and conditions, with the exception that interest may be waived in certain circumstances.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirement and foreign exchange controls, as determined by the South African Reserve Bank.
The statutory solvency requirement for Namibia is N$4 million 0.4 million 2009: N$4 million 0.3 million.
This has been determined in accordance with local statutory rules.
United States In the case of the United States, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of the Old Mutual US Life Holdings Inc. group of companies, including OM Financial Life Insurance Company, OM Financial Life Insurance Company of New York, and Old Mutual Reassurance Ireland Limited, and Old Mutual Bermuda Limited.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of the local regulatory requirements for the United States included at the relevant percentage used for FGD, which was 200% of Risk Based Capital.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the entities and the requirement to maintain the minimum statutory capital requirements.
The local regulators have ultimate approval for dividend payments.
Europe In the case of Skandia, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Continental Europe.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirements and obtaining any necessary regulatory permissions as required by local regulators in the territories in question.
b Banking operations The regulatory capital position of the Groups banking operations, based on latest estimates that are not audited, is summarised as follows: unaudited m At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2009 Africa Europe Africa Europe Equity shareholders funds 1,720 224 2,137 254 Eligible subordinated debt 598 104 656 115 Inadmissible assets 2 3 Other adjustments 38 1 38 1 Total capital resources 2,280 325 2,755 365 Total capital requirement 1,886 203 1,659 197 Excess of capital resources over capital requirement 869 162 621 128 unaudited m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Africa Europe Africa Europe Capital resources at beginning of the year 1,898 321 2,280 325 Earnings after tax and other increases in reserves 181 71 362 144 Change in admissible assets, other adjustments and other movements in reserves 28 56 37 108 New capital Net redemption issue of subordinated debt 50 49 Dividends paid 108 9 164 Foreign exchange movements 363 4 287 2 Capital resources at end of the year 2,755 365 2,280 325 The above amounts represent the capital positions of Nedbank Limited including the London branch and Skandiabanken AB.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question, and reect the Groups percentage ownership.
Old Mutual plc 279 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E12: Liquidity Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity proles of financial assets and liabilities.
Individual businesses separately maintain and manage their local liquidity requirements according to their business needs, within the overall liquidity framework established by Old Mutual plc.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements, and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups available credit facilities.
Given the nature of the Groups investments and securities, generally speaking, liquid resources are readily available, as the Group holds large portfolios of highly marketable securities, for example equities, listed bonds, actively traded pooled investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Whilst most of the Groups policyholder and banking liabilities are generally repayable on demand, the Groups expectation is that policyholders and banking depositors will only require funds on an ongoing basis.
Cash resources and other liquid assets are maintained in the event of a need for additional liquidity.
Information on the nature of the investments and securities held is given in section E4.
The Groups existing revolving credit facility of 1.23 billion 2009: 1.25 billion does not mature until September 2012.
Details, together with information on the Groups borrowed funds, are given in section E9.
The key information reviewed by the Groups executive directors and executive committee, together with the Groups capital management committee, is a detailed management report on the Groups and holding companys current and planned capital and liquidity position together with summary information on the current and planned liquidity positions of the Groups operating segments.
Forecasts are updated regularly based on new information received, and as part of the Groups annual business planning cycle.
The Group and holding companys liquidity and capital position and forecast is presented to the Old Mutual plc Board of Directors on a regular basis.
Group operating segments are required, both in terms of their local requirements and in accordance with direction from the holding company, to establish their own processes for managing their liquidity and capital needs and these are subject to review by their local oversight functions, with representation from the Group.
Further information on liquidity and holding company cash ow is contained in other sections of this annual report, for example the business review and Group Finance Directors statement.
The Group does not have material liquidity exposure to special purpose entities or investment funds.
The contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities are set out in the appropriate notes to the financial statements.
280 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information F: Other statement of financial position notes F1: Goodwill and other intangible assets m Present value of acquired in-force Software Other intangible Goodwill business development costs assets Total At 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Cost Balance at beginning of the year 3,241 3,316 3,029 3,129 649 548 880 916 7,909 7,799 Acquisitions through business combinations 4 12 51 1 63 5 Additions 78 20 2 22 78 Foreign exchange and other movements 143 71 10 100 81 52 15 35 154 249 Disposals or retirements 29 16 2 22 3 41 31 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 73 335 40 448 Balance at end of the year 3,286 3,241 2,704 3,029 766 649 896 880 7,652 7,799 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 512 235 1,380 1,179 427 361 321 252 2,027 2,640 Amortisation charge for the year 214 244 61 56 83 82 382 358 Impairment losses 1 266 19 266 20 Foreign exchange and other movements 15 12 27 43 56 32 8 11 10 52 Disposals or retirements 1 2 22 2 25 2 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 73 270 38 381 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses at end of the year 455 512 1,297 1,380 523 427 412 321 2,687 2,640 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 2,729 3,081 1,649 1,950 222 187 559 664 5,159 5,882 Balance at end of the year 2,831 2,729 1,407 1,649 243 222 484 559 4,965 5,159 All of the present value of acquired in-force business at the year end of 1,407 million relates to the Skandia business acquired during 2006 2009: 1,649 million which is due to be amortised over a further 10 to 15 years.
Of the other intangible assets 280 million 2009: 365 million relates to distribution channels and 136 million 2009: 108 million brands associated with the Skandia business.
The remaining periods over which these are being amortised are 5 years and 10 years respectively.
The acquisitions through business combinations comprises 1 million 2009: 5 million in respect of various acquisitions by the Groups US Asset Management business and 4 million 2009: 7 million relating to various other small acquisitions.
Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units CGUs The carrying amount of goodwill accords with the operating segmentation shown in note B, and primarily relates to the Long Term Savings CGUs of Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management, together with Nedbank and US Asset Management.
An analysis of goodwill by CGU is set out below.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Nordic 219 243 Retail Europe 204 198 Wealth Management 656 656 Nedbank 393 453 US Asset Management 1,142 1,155 Other 126 115 Goodwill, net of impairment losses 2,831 2,729 Old Mutual plc 281 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Annual impairment testing of goodwill In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill is tested annually for impairment for each CGU, by comparing the carrying amount of each CGU to its recoverable amount, being the higher of that CGUs value-in-use or net selling price.
An impairment charge is recognised when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
In all cases in 2010, each CGUs recoverable amount has been determined by reference to its value-in-use.
Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management These CGUs generate revenues through their life assurance and asset management businesses.
Nordic also has a banking business as an additional principal source of revenue.
The value-in-use calculations for the life assurance operations are determined using the reported embedded value methodology plus a discounted cash ow calculation for the value of new business.
The value of new business represents the present value of future profits from expected new business.
Embedded value represents the shareholders interest in the life assurance business and is calculated in accordance with Market Consistent Embedded Value principles.
The methodology and significant assumptions underlying the determination of embedded value is disclosed in the supplementary information shown on pages 336 to 348.
The differences between the key assumptions applied in the current year and in the prior year are disclosed on pages 353 to 366.
The cash ows attributable to the value of new business are determined with reference to latest approved three-year business plans.
Projections beyond the plan period are extrapolated using an ination based growth assumption.
The value-in-use calculations for the asset management and banking operations are similarly determined based on discounted cash ow models derived from the latest approved three-year business plans.
An additional two years projections beyond the plan period are extrapolated using ination based growth rates.
The cash ows are discounted at economic profit rates applicable relevant to each individual CGU.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations for the Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management CGUs are as follows: Q The growth rate The rate used is an ination based growth assumption, which varies by CGU and is based on external market factors particular to that CGU.
Nordic applied the Swedish central bank ination target of 2% to all principal business lines.
Retail Europe, which incorporates a number of European countries, applied a weighted average calculation to determine the growth rate of 2.8% applied to its life assurance business and of 1.8% for its asset management business.
Wealth Management applied 3.7% to both its life assurance business and asset management business in the UK, 1.8% in Italy and 1.7% in France.
Q The discount rate The applied rate used the relevant 10-year government bond rate as a starting point, which was adjusted for an equity market risk premium and other relevant risk adjustments, which were determined using market valuation models and other observable references.
Rates applied were 15.9% for Nordic, 14.5% for Retail Europe and 15.8% for Wealth Management.
The directors are satisfied that any reasonable change in the assumptions would not cause the recoverable amounts of the Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management CGUs to fall below their carrying amounts.
Nedbank The impairment test in respect of the Nedbank CGU has been performed by comparing the CGUs carrying amount to its value-in-use.
Value-in-use has been determined using a discounted cash ow methodology.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation are the discount rate and growth rate, which are based on market factors relevant to that CGU.
The discount rate applied is approximately 12.0% 2009: 12.9%.
A 5% growth rate was applied to extrapolate cash ows for an additional two years beyond the three-year business plan period.
A terminal value, using the same growth rate, is added for the value of cash ows beyond five years.
There was no impairment charge recognised for the Nedbank CGU in the current financial year 2009: nil.
The directors are satisfied that a reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill to fall below the carrying amount.
US Asset Management The impairment test in respect of the US Asset Management CGU has been performed by comparing the CGUs carrying amount to its value-in-use.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations for the US Asset Management CGU are as follows: Q The three year business plan and two further years have growth rate assumptions based on managements expectation of performance over this period.
A terminal value, using a long-term growth rate of 6% 2009: 6% is added for the value of cash ows beyond five years.
The assumed long-term growth rate was determined with reference to nominal historical GDP growth in the US.
Q The risk-adjusted discount rate applied was 12.9% 2009: 13.3%.
No impairment charge has been recognised for the US Asset Management CGU.
The directors believe that a reasonable adverse change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation for example, reducing the growth rate to 5% or increasing the risk adjusted discount rate by 0.9% for that CGU would be absorbed before the recoverable amounts fall below the carrying amounts.
The value-in-use exceeds the carrying amount by 165 million 2009: 290 million.
282 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Segmental analysis of goodwill and intangibles The following table shows a segmental analysis of the carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets, together with amortisation and impairment charges, by operating segment: Goodwill and other intangible assets by segment m Goodwill and intangible Impairment At 31 December 2010 assets Amortisation loss Long-Term Savings 3,101 300 20 Emerging Markets 120 2 1 Nordic 995 143 Retail Europe 522 36 1,464 119 19 Wealth Management Nedbank 637 50 US Asset Management 1,181 3 Other 46 5 Total 4,965 358 20 m Goodwill and intangible Impairment At 31 December 2009 assets Amortisation loss Long-Term Savings 3,306 317 266 Emerging Markets 106 3 Nordic 1,035 133 Retail Europe 563 54 187 1,602 127 79 Wealth Management Nedbank 543 37 US Asset Management 1,171 2 Other 45 6 5,065 362 266 Discontinued US Life operations 94 20 Total 5,159 382 266 Goodwill and intangible assets discussed in the table above is net of amortisation and impairment losses.
Following a re-evaluation of the prospects for the former ELAM operating segment as part of the reorganisation in 2009, goodwill impairment tests were carried out based on a comparison of the re-allocated carrying amounts and their corresponding value-in-use calculations at the point of re-allocation.
As a result, impairment charges were recognised in 2009 in the income statement of 187 million in the Retail Europe CGU and 79 million in Wealth Management CGU, largely as a result of a reassessment of the anticipated growth rates assumed in the value-in-use calculations determined during the reorganisation.
The discount rate applied in the corresponding value-in-use calculations was15.7%.
Old Mutual plc 283 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued F2: Property, plant and equipment m Plant and Land Buildings equipment Total At 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Gross carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 86 76 558 405 721 660 1,365 1,141 Additions 6 31 56 115 82 152 138 Additions from business combinations 1 2 3 Increase decrease arising from revaluation 8 8 18 5 26 13 Disposals 1 1 21 56 76 57 98 Foreign exchange and other movements 11 19 85 122 92 53 188 194 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 6 7 13 Balance at end of the year 111 86 685 558 865 721 1,661 1,365 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 37 13 500 446 537 459 Depreciation charge for the year 16 12 87 74 103 86 Disposals 8 55 61 55 69 Foreign exchange and other movements 3 20 71 41 68 61 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 7 7 Balance at end of the year 50 37 596 500 646 537 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 86 76 521 392 221 214 828 682 Balance at end of the year 111 86 635 521 269 221 1,015 828 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment leased to third parties under operating leases, included in the above is 130 million 2009: 82 million and comprises land of 15 million 2009: 12 million and buildings of 115 million 2009: 70 million.
There are no restrictions on property, plant and equipment title as a result of security pledges.
The revaluation of land and buildings relates to Emerging Markets and to Nedbank.
In 2010 Emerging Markets made revaluation gains of 1 million on land and 3 million on buildings 2009: losses of 10 million and 8 million respectively, while Nedbank made revaluation gains of 4 million on land and 12 million on buildings 2009: gains of 2 million and 3 million respectively.
For Emerging Markets, land and buildings are valued as at 31 December each year by internal professional valuers and external valuations are obtained once every three years.
External professional valuers are used for Nedbank.
For both businesses the valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash ows and vacant land and property are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
The carrying value that would have been recognised had the land and buildings been carried under the cost model would be 7 million 2009: 64 million and 174 million 2009: 99 million respectively for Emerging Markets and 27 million 2009: 21 million and 167 million 2009: 97 million for Nedbank respectively.
Additions and depreciation by segment m Long-Term US Asset Year ended 31 December 2010 Savings Nedbank M&F Management Total Additions 26 119 4 3 152 Depreciation 26 6368 103 m Long-Term US Asset Year ended 31 December 2009 Savings Nedbank M&F Management Total Additions 27 102 4 5 138 Depreciation 25 48 5 8 86 284 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information F3: Investment property m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Balance at beginning of the year 1,478 1,759 Additions 82 162 Additions from business combinations 155 Disposals 57 272 Net gain loss from fair value adjustments 54 30 Foreign exchange and other movements 155 362 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 1 Balance at end of the year 2,040 1,759 In 2010 additions of 162 million 2009: 237 million related to Emerging Markets.
Of the net gain loss arising from fair value adjustments on investment properties, a 30 million gain 2009: 105 million loss related to Emerging Markets.
The fair value of investment property freehold leased to third parties under operating leases is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Freehold 2,040 1,759 Rental income from investment property 106 163 Direct operating expense arising from investment property that generated rental income 19 19 144 87 The carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent valuer at least every three years, and annually by locally qualied staff, having an appropriate recognised professional qualication and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values are determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
The Groups current lease arrangements, which are entered into on an arms length basis and which are comparable to those for similar properties in the same location, are taken into account.
Of the total investment property of 2,040 million 2009: 1,759 million, 1,699 million 2009: 1,535 million is attributable to South Africa, 341 million 2009: 223 million to Europe and nil 2009: 1 million to other.
F4: Deferred acquisition costs m Insurance Investment Asset Year end 31 December 2010 contracts contracts management Total Balance at beginning of the year 1,934 1,079 125 3,138 New business 86 276 64 426 Amortisation 308 221 48 577 Impairment losses charged for the year 10 10 Foreign exchange and other movements 186 53 4 129 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 1,314 1,314 Balance at end of the year 212 1,187 135 1,534 m Insurance Investment Asset Year end 31 December 2009 contracts contracts management Total Balance at beginning of the year 2,107 961 131 3,199 New business 89 251 56 396 Amortisation 102 130 46 278 Impairment losses charged for the year 5 5 Foreign exchange and other movements 160 3 11 174 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale Balance at end of the year 1,934 1,079 125 3,138 Old Mutual plc 285 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued F5: Trade, other receivables and other assets m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Debtors arising from direct insurance operations Amounts owed by policyholders 89 85 Amounts owed by intermediaries 86 89 Other 85 23 Debtors arising from direct insurance operations 198 259 Debtors arising from reinsurance operations 94 39 Outstanding settlements 461 252 Reinsurance treaties 974 847 Other receivables 840 751 Accrued interest and rent 400 433 Trading securities and spot positions 506 63 Prepayments and accrued income 145 134 Other assets 308 279 Total trade, other receivables and other assets 3,932 3,051 Based on the maturity prole of the above assets, 2,931 million 2009: 2,849 million is regarded as current and 1,001 million 2009: 202million as non-current.
All amounts outstanding are short-term in nature.
No significant balances are past due or impaired.
F6: Provisions m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Surplus property 20 16 Client compensation 30 39 Warranties on sale of business 17 3 Liability for long service leave 49 57 Restructuring 5 15 Provision for donations 84 89 Other provisions 92 90 311 295 Post employment benets 51 32 Total 260 263 m Liability Client Warranties for long Provision Surplus compenon sale of service Restructurfor Year ended 31 December 2010 property sation business leave ing donations Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 20 30 17 49 5 84 90 295 Unused amounts reversed 10 19 29 Unwind of discount Charge to income statement 7 289 25 69 Utilised during the year 4 9 27 5 45 Foreign exchange and other movements 11 4 7151 21 Balance at end of the year 16 39 3 57 15 89 92 311 286 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information m Liability Client Warranties for long Surplus compenon sale of service RestruProvision for Year ended 31 December 2009 property sation business leave cturing donations Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 23 27 111 38 80 201 480 Unused amounts reversed 2 54 52 108 Unwind of discount 1 1 Charge to income statement 3 3 24 5 8 37 Utilised during the year 7 2 26 20 65 120 Foreign exchange and other movements 10 14 7 4 2 5 Balance at end of the year 20 30 17 49 5 84 90 295 2010 provisions in relation to surplus property amounted to 16 million 2009: 20 million.
These relate to the onerous costs of vacant properties leased by the Group of which 16 million 2009: 13 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Provisions in relation to client compensation were 39 million 2009: 30 million, primarily relating to possible mis-selling of guarantee contracts in Wealth Management.
1 million 2009: 5 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Provisions in relation to warranties on the sale of businesses amounted to 3 million 2009: 17 million.
3 million 2009: 9 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
The liability for long service leave of 57 million 2009: 49 million relates to provision for staff payments for long serving employees, all of which estimated to be payable in less than one year.
Provisions in relation to restructuring were 15 million 2009: 5 million, primarily in respect of consolidation and related ofce relocation for Wealth Management.
11 million 2009: 3 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
The provision for donations is held by Emerging Markets.
It relates to the payment of charitable donations in future periods to which the Group is committed, out of the funds made available on the closure of the Groups unclaimed shares trusts, which were set up as part of the demutualisation in 1999 and closed in 2006 of which 70 million 2009: 84 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Other provisions includes provisions for tax on long-term staff benets, restructuring and legal fees.
Where material, provisions are discounted at discount rates specic to the risks inherent in the liability.
The timing and final amounts of payments in respect of some of the provisions, particularly those in respect of litigation claims and similar actions against the Group, are uncertain and could be result in adjustments to the amounts recorded.
Of the total provisions recorded above, 163 million 2009: 188 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
F7: Deferred revenue m Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2010 business management insurance Total Balance at beginning of the year 556 89 9 654 Fees and commission income deferred 107 48 1 156 Amortisation 39 39 78 Foreign exchange and other movements 2111 23 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 24 1 25 Balance at end of the year 621 98 11 730 m Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2009 business management insurance Total Balance at beginning of the year 489 101 8 598 Fees and commission income deferred 91 34 125 Amortisation 15 37 52 Foreign exchange and other movements 11 7 1 17 Transfer from to non-current assets held for sale 2 2 Balance at end of the year 556 89 9 654 Old Mutual plc 287 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued F8: Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences at the tax rate applicable to the jurisdiction in which the timing differences arise.
a Deferred tax assets The movement on the deferred tax assets account is as follows: m At Income Foreign beginning statement Charged Acquisition exchange and of the charge credited to disposal of other At end of the Year ended 31 December 2010 year credit equity subsidiaries movements year Insurance funds 286 288 2 Tax losses carried forward 269 30 42 12 209 Accelerated capital allowances 6 4 2 Available-for-sale securities 185 182 7 4 Other temporary differences 265 27 2 66 6 234 Netted against liabilities 624 5 399 6 214 Deferred fee income 183 7 1 2 187 570 5 181 4 26 416 Includes the transfer of US Life into non-current assets held for sale.
m At Income Foreign beginning Statement Charged Acquisition exchange and of the charge credited to disposal of other At end of the Year ended 31 December 2009 year credit equity subsidiaries movements year Insurance funds 298 17 29 286 Tax losses carried forward 346 53 4 20 269 Accelerated capital allowances 17 10 1 6 Available-for-sale securities 584 56 404 51 185 Other temporary differences 284 53 24 1 59 265 Netted against liabilities 63 10 551 624 Deferred fee income 124 8 51 183 1,590 45 428 5 542 570 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable, being where on the basis of all available evidence it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the reversal of the deferred tax asset can be deducted.
The amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised comprise: m 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Gross amount Tax Gross amount Tax Unrelieved tax losses Expiring in the second to fifth years inclusive 248 79 Expiring after five years 2,492 415 2,473 459 Accelerated capital allowances 84 24 117 31 Other timing differences 296 79 20 6 2,886 569 2,844 524 288 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information b Deferred tax liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities account is as follows: m Income Foreign At statement Charged Acquisition exchange beginning charge credited disposal of and other At end Year ended 31 December 2010 of the year credit to equity subsidiaries movements of the year Accelerated tax depreciation 24 1 1 5 29 Deferred acquisition costs 662 26 115 404 28 197 Leasing 44 9 53 PVIF 224 24 3 197 Other acquired intangibles 86 19 2 65 Available-for-sale securities 21 25 Other temporary differences 366 38 5 18 381 Policyholder tax 121 4 20 145 Netted against assets 624 5 399 6 214 905 32 115 11 47 858 Includes the transfer of US Life into non-current assets held for sale m Income Foreign At statement Charged Acquisition exchange beginning charge credited disposal of and other At end Year ended 31 December 2009 of the year credit to equity subsidiaries movements of the year Accelerated tax depreciation 24 24 Deferred acquisition costs 715 24 18 59 662 Leasing 54 18 8 44 PVIF 258 26 8 224 Other acquired intangibles 107 16 5 86 Available-for-sale securities 2 2 Other temporary differences 256 20 130 366 Policyholder tax 99 7 15 121 Netted against assets 63 10 551 624 1,452 59 18 470 905 As the Group is able to control the reversal of temporary differences in respect of investments in subsidiaries and branches and it is probable that these temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future, there is no need to provide for the associated deferred tax liabilities.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences on which further tax might be due if these temporary differences reversed would be estimated at 3.4 billion 2009: 3.4 billion.
F9: Trade, other payables and other liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Amounts payable on direct insurance business Funds held under reinsurance business ceded 118 119 Amounts owed to policyholders 528 326 Amounts owed to intermediaries 80 90 Other direct insurance operation creditors 67 60 Accounts payable on reinsurance business 62 35 Accruals and deferred income 576 697 Share-based payments cash-settled scheme liabilities 19 21 Short trading securities, spot positions and other 778 1,598 Trade creditors 297 304 Outstanding settlements 412 503 Total securities sold under agreements to repurchase 157 117 Obligations in relation to collateral holdings 295 995 Other liabilities 796 916 5,661 4,305 Included in the amounts shown above are 3,885 million 2009: 2,960 million that are regarded as current, the remainder as non-current.
Old Mutual plc 289 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued F10: Equity a Share capital m At At 31 December 31 December Authorised and issued share capital 2010 2009 Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each 750 750 Issued ordinary shares of 10p each 570 552 b Perpetual preferred callable securities In addition to the Groups senior and subordinated debt, the Group has issued two separate tranches of perpetual preferred callable securities with a total carrying value of 688 million 2009: 688 million as at 31 December 2010.
In accordance with IFRS accounting standards these instruments are classied as equity and disclosed within equity shareholders funds as shown on page 179.
350 million perpetual preferred callable securities these are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 24 March 2020 interest is payable at a xed rate of 6.4% per annum annually in arrears.
From 24 March 2020 interest is reset semi-annually at 2.2% per annum above the sterling inter-bank offer rate for six month sterling deposits, and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
Coupon payments may be deferred at the Groups discretion.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 24 March 2020.
500 million perpetual preferred callable securities Step-up Option B Undated Subordinated Notes issued under a Global Note Programme.
These are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 4 November 2015 the notes pay interest at a xed rate of 5.0% per annum annually in arrears.
After this date the interest is reset semi-annually at 2.63% per annum above six month EURIBOR and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 4 November 2015.
F11: Non-controlling interests a Income statement i Ordinary shares The non-controlling interests charge to profit for the financial year has been calculated on the basis of the Groups effective ownership of the subsidiaries in which it does not own 100% of the ordinary equity.
The principal subsidiaries where a noncontrolling interest exists are the Groups banking business in South Africa and, prior to the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in Mutual & Federal in February 2010 see F11 b, the general insurance business in South Africa.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 the non-controlling interests attributable to ordinary shares was 196 million 2009: 158 million.
ii Preferred securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 16 14 R773 million non-cumulative preference shares 6 5 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 2 2 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 38 38 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 3 2 Non-controlling interests preferred securities 62 64 290 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information iii Non-controlling interests adjusted operating profit The following table reconciles non-controlling interests share of profit for the financial year to non-controlling interests share of adjusted operating profit: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of non-controlling interests share of profit for the financial year 2010 2009 The non-controlling interests charge is analysed as follows: Non-controlling interests ordinary shares 158 196 Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 1 2 Short-term uctuations in investment return 2 Income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries 23 22 Fair value gains on group debt instruments 6 Income attributable to US Asset Management non-controlling interests 9 3 Non-controlling interests share of adjusted operating profit 217 181 The Group uses revised weighted average effective ownership interests when calculating the non-controllable interest applicable to the adjusted operating profit of its South Africa banking and, prior to the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in February 2010, general insurance businesses.
This reects the legal ownership of these businesses following the implementation for Black Economic Empowerment BEE schemes in 2005.
In accordance with IFRS accounting rules the shares issued for BEE purposes are deemed to be, in substance, options.
Therefore the effective ownership interest of the minorities reected in arriving at profit after tax in the consolidated income statement is lower than that applied in arriving at adjusted operating profit after tax.
In 2010 the increase in adjusted operating profit attributable to non-controlling interests as a result of this was 22 million 2009: 23 million.
b Statement of financial position i Ordinary shares m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of movements in non-controlling interests 2010 2009 Balance at beginning of the year 1,147 1,537 Non-controlling interests share of profit 158 196 Non-controlling interests share of dividends paid 80 88 Net acquisition of interests 63 116 Foreign exchange and other movements 234 249 Balance at end of the year 1,763 1,537 Acquisition on non-controlling interest in Mutual & Federal On 5 February 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling shareholdings in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, following the fullment of all outstanding conditions precedent.
On 8 February 2010, 147,313,449 new Old Mutual plc ordinary shares were issued in exchange for Mutual & Federal shares and listed on the London Stock Exchange, of which 68,378,851 were issues to Black Economic Empowerment trusts and 78,934,598 to other previous holders.
Other acquisitions On 8 February 2010 Nedbank announced that it had obtained regulatory approval for the acquisition of the remaining 49.9% indirect interest in Imperial Bank Limited thereby satisfying all conditions precedent for the acquisition.
The purchase consideration was approximately 162 million 155 million plus a Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate JIBAR factor applied up to 5 February 2010 which is being settled in four instalments out of existing cash resources of Nedbank Limited.
The total amount, which included interest at the three month JIBAR, amounted to 165 million.
Old Mutual plc 291 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued F11: Non-controlling interests continued b Statement of financial position continued ii Preferred securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 1 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 140 140 2 R773 million non-cumulative preference shares 71 71 3 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 12 12 4 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 458 458 5 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 25 25 6 R363 million non-cumulative preference shares 17 17 7 R92 million non-cumulative preference shares 50 773 723 Unamortised issue costs 13 13 Total in issue at 31 December 760 710 Preferred securities are held at historic value of consideration received less unamortised issue costs.
200 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank Limited Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary.
These shares are non-redeemable and non-cumulative and pay a cash dividend equivalent to 75% of the prime overdraft interest rate of Nedbank.
Preference shareholders are only entitled to vote during periods when a dividend or any part of it remains unpaid after the due date for payment or when resolutions are proposed that directly affect any rights attaching to the shares or the rights of the holders.
Preference shareholders will be entitled to receive their dividends in priority to any payment of dividends made in respect of any other class of Nedbanks shares.
77.3 million R10 preference shares issued at R10.68 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
30 million R10 preference shares issued on 22 June 2006 by Imperial Bank Limited a subsidiary of Nedbank Limited, on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
US$750 million Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preference Securities issued on 19 May 2003 by Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. a subsidiary of the Group.
Subject to certain limitations, holders of these securities are entitled to receive preferential cash distributions at a xed rate of 8.0% per annum payable in arrears on a quarterly basis.
The Group may defer payment of distributions at its sole discretion, but such an act may restrict Old Mutual plc from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for a period of 12 months.
Arrears of distributions are payable quarterly cumulatively only on redemption of the securities or at the Groups option.
The securities are perpetual, but may be redeemed at the discretion of the Group from 22 December 2008.
The costs of issue have been amortised over the period to 22 December 2008.
35 million R10 preference shares issued in 16 April 2007 at R10.27 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
36.3 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank in seven instalments between September 09 and December 09 on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
9.2 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank on 11 March 2010 on the same terms as the securities in note 1 above.
G: Other notes G1: Post employment benets The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both dened contribution and dened benefit schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to dened benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to each pension scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benets over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
In the intervening years the actuary reviews the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected benefit obligations of the Groups pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they operate.
292 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information a Liability for dened benefit obligations m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Changes in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the year 815 778 211 158 Benets earned during the year 9 8 6 5 Interest cost on benefit obligation 50 41 19 12 Actuarial gain loss 53 25 2 15 Benets paid 50 43 3 5 Foreign exchange and other movements 100 6 39 26 Projected benefit obligation at end of the year 977 815 270 211 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 953 828 175 160 Actual return on plan assets 90 99 17 9 Company contributions 12 14 5 Employee contributions 1 1 Benets paid 47 41 3 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 110 52 34 10 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 1,119 953 218 175 Net asset liability recognised in statement of financial position Funded status of plan 142 138 52 36 Unrecognised assets 12 8 10 4 Other amounts recognised in statement of financial position 1 1 1 Unrecognised actuarial gains 23 61 12 4 Net amount recognised in statement of financial position 106 68 55 36 b Expense credit recognised in the income statement m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Current service costs 5 8 8 3 Interest cost 40 31 19 12 Expected return on plan assets 59 42 15 11 Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 7 5 Other benefit retirement plans 2 Total included in staff costs 5 2 12 4 Old Mutual plc 293 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued G: Other notes continued c Principal actuarial assumptions % Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 UK pension schemes Discount rate 5.4 5.7-5.8 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 7.2 7.5-8.4 Debt 4.2-5.4 4.5-5.8 Cash 0.5 0.5-5.7 Annuities and other 5.4 5.7-6.5 Future salary increases 4.7 4.8 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions ination 3.7-4.3 3.8-4.3 Price ination 3.7 3.8 Europe pension schemes Discount rate 3.8-4.0 4.0 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 5.8-6.7 5.8 Debt 2.8-3.7 2.8 Property 5.8-6.7 5.8 Annuities and other 5.8-6.7 5.8 Future salary increases 3.3-4.8 3.3 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions ination 2.0-2.3 2.0 Price ination 2.0-2.3 2.0 African pension schemes Discount rate 5.4-9.0 7.5-9.0 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 9.1-11.0 9.0-12.5 Debt 9.0-9.1 9.0-9.5 Property 9.0-9.1 7.5-9.0 Future salary increases 6.0-6.3 5.0-6.0 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions ination 2.2-6.0 1.4-6.0 Price ination 3.2-6.2 4.0-6.0 African other post retirement schemes Discount rate 7.3-8.0 5.5-10.5 Expected return on plan assets 7.3-8.0 5.8-10.5 Future salary increases 5.3-8.0 5.8-9.0 Price ination 5.3-8.0 3.5-9.0 Health cost ination 5.0-8.0 7.3-9.0 The calculations are based on actuarially calculated mortality estimates relevant to the economic countries in which they operate, with a specic allowance made for future improvements in mortality which is broadly in line with that adopted for the 92 series of mortality tables prepared by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute of Actuaries.
The expected returns on plan assets have been determined on the basis of long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and the market conditions at the reporting date specic to the relevant locations.
The effect to the Groups obligation of a 1% increase and 1% decrease in the assumed health cost trend rates would be an increase of 22 million and decrease of 17 million 2009: increase of 13 million and decrease of 13 million respectively.
294 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information d Plan asset allocation % Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Equity securities 37.8 37.4 36.5 36.6 Debt securities 41.7 40.9 26.3 20.8 Property 7.0 6.8 4.4 5.6 Cash 1.0 3.6 23.5 26.1 Annuities and other 12.5 11.3 9.3 10.9 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pension and other retirement benefit plan assets include ordinary shares issued by the Company with a fair value of nil 2009: nil.
e Summary of Group pension plans m Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Present value of dened benefit obligations 977 815 778 675 758 Fair value of plan assets 1,119 953 828 855 836 Surplus 142 138 50 180 78 Experience losses arising on dened benefit plan liabilities: Amount 4 82 5 12 As a percentage of plan liabilities 0.4% 1.0 % 0.0% 0.7% 1.6% Experience gains arising on dened benefit plan assets: Amount 11 8 69 39 50 As a percentage of plan assets 0.9 % 0.8 % 8.3 % 4.3% 6.0% Total contributions expected to be paid to the Group pension plans for the year ending 31 December 2011 are 12 million subject to any reassessments to be completed in the year.
Old Mutual plc 295 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued G: Other notes continued G2: Share-based payments a Share-based payment arrangements During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Contractual Description of award life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 2 UK Sharesave Scheme 3- 5 3 & 5 Target UK Share Option and Deferred growth in Delivery Plan 63 EPS UK Restricted Share Plan 3-5 3 & 5 Old Mutual plc Share Reward Up to Plan Share options 10 years 3 Not less Old Mutual plc Share Reward than 3 Plan Restricted Shares years Old Mutual plc Performance Up to Share plan Share Options 10 years 3 Target Old Mutual plc Performance Not less Not less growth in Share plan Restricted than 3 than 3 EPS and Shares years years ROE Old Mutual plc 2008 2 Sharesave Plan 3-5 3 & 5 Target South Africa Share Option growth in and Deferred Delivery Plan 63 EPS South Africa Restricted Share Plan 5 3 OMSA Broad-based 3 Employee Scheme 5 OMSA Senior Black 4 Management Scheme 4-6 4, 5 & 6 Target growth in 5 OMSA Management Scheme 3-6 3 EPS OMSA Black Business 6 Partners Scheme 10 OMSA Client & Distributor 7 Scheme 10 7 OMSA Community Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 3-6 3 Old Mutual Namibia Senior Black Management 4 Scheme 4-6 4, 5 & 6 Old Mutual Namibia Broad- 6 based Employee Scheme 5 Old Mutual Namibia Education 6 Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Distributor 6 Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Community Partners 6 Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Black 6 Business Partners Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia 6 Discretionary Scheme 10 Target growth in Nedcor Group 1994 Share headline 8 Option Scheme 6 3 & 4 earnings Nedbank Group 2005 Share Option Scheme 5 3 296 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information G: Other notes continued G2: Share-based payments continued Contractual Description of award life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Option entitlement Other Years years measure Other Nedbank Group 2005 9 10 Matched Share Scheme 5 3 Various Nedbank Eyethu Non-Executive Directors 11 Scheme 66 Nedbank Eyethu Black 4 Executive Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Nedbank Eyethu Black 4 Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Nedbank Eyethu Broad-based 3 Employee Scheme 5 Nedbank Eyethu Black 6,11 Business Partner Scheme 10 Nedbank Eyethu Retail 12 13 Scheme 3 Nedbank Eyethu Corporate 14 Scheme 6 Nedbank Namibia Omuma Black 4 Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Nedbank Namibia Omuma Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 Nedbank Namibia Omuma Black Business 6,11 Partner Scheme 10 Nedbank Namibia Omuma 6,11 Afnity Group Scheme 10 Nedbank Namibia Omuma 6,11 Education Scheme 10 Target Nedbank UK Long-term growth in 15 Incentive Plan 43 average RoE Mutual & Federal Share Option Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Senior Black 4 Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Distributor 7 Scheme indefinite Mutual & Federal Community 7 Scheme indefinite Mutual & Federal Black 6 Business Partners Scheme 10 Old Mutual plc 297 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued G: Other notes continued G2: Share-based payments continued Contractual Description of award life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Option entitlement Other Years years measure Other Mutual & Federal Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 Mutual & Federal Namibia Share Option Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Namibia Senior Black Management 4 Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community 7 Scheme indefinite Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Business Partners 6 Scheme 10 Mutual & Federal Namibia Management Incentive Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Namibia Broad-based 6 Employee Scheme 5 Mutual & Federal Discretionary 6 Scheme 10 1 All share-based payment arrangements are equity settled with the exception of the South Africa Share Option, the Deferred Delivery Plan and the Mutual & Federal share schemes and the South Africa Restricted Share Plan which are cash-settled.
UK schemes relate to shares in Old Mutual plc listed on the London Stock Exchange.
South Africa, OMSA, Mutual & Federal and Old Mutual schemes relate to shares in Old mutual plc listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
Nedcor and Nedbank schemes relate to shares in Nedbank Group Ltd listed on the JSE.
Details of schemes related to US Asset Management are provided in Note G2 e. 2 Scheme is linked to a savings plan.
3 Earlier of five years or participant being entitled to any other award under any other share incentive scheme of the Company.
4 One third of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
5 Performance target applies to options only.
6 Expiry of the contractual life.
7 Minimum period of ten years.
8 One half of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
9 Matching contributions made by the participant of an amount not more than 50% of their after-tax bonus.
10 Where performance targets are not met, 50% of the instruments granted will become unrestricted.
11 No dealing in these instruments during the notional funding period.
12 For every three shares acquired, participants qualify for an additional bonus share.
13 Participant holds a Nedbank Group Ltd account as their primary account for the contractual life of the instrument.
14 Participant uses Nedbank Group Ltd as their primary banker for contractual life of the instrument.
Nedbank has first right of refusal over all banking requirements.
15 Share appreciation rights SAR scheme, where Nedbank will settle the difference between the current market price and the exercise price in cash, when the employee decides to exercise the SAR.
298 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information b Reconciliation of movements in options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number average Options over shares in Old Mutual plc London Stock Exchange options exercise price of options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 77,490,352 0.66 33,222,022 1.20 Granted during the year 4,720,010 1.12 58,992,582 0.45 Forfeited during the year 7,162,357 0.87 12,451,662 1.05 Exercised during the year 5,362,778 0.76 1,940,138 0.94 Expired during the year 5,939,820 1.21 332,452 1.63 Outstanding at end of the year 63,745,407 0.61 77,490,352 0.66 Exercisable at 31 December 1,767,384 1.31 6,234,171 1.06 The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 have an exercise price in the range of 0.35 to 1.63 2009: 0.35 to 1.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.7 years 2009: 2.7 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1.19 2009: 1.12.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number average Options over shares in Old Mutual plc Johannesburg Stock Exchange options exercise price of options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 63,770,329 R12.45 42,623,552 R18.30 Conversion from options over shares in Mutual & Federal see below 9,060,754 R9.48 Granted during the year 15,736,775 R13.87 34,996,407 R 7.79 Forfeited during the year 8,645,294 R18.94 10,334,831 R19.85 Exercised during the year 3,443,611 R10.97 1,015,674 R11.69 Expired during the year 2,481,216 R14.43 2,499,125 R13.68 Outstanding at end of the year 73,997,737 R11.57 63,770,329 R12.45 Exercisable at 31 December 10,673,737 R12.72 10,457,729 R14.10 The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 have an exercise price in the range of R1.45 to R19.10 2009: R7.45 to R23.40 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.9 years 2009: 4.3 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R13.92 2009: R13.63.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average Options over shares in Nedbank Group Ltd options exercise price options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 36,950,389 R124.86 41,124,074 R121.61 Granted during the year 1,486,893 R125.36 1,976,504 R 82.97 Forfeited during the year 1,286,772 R105.23 1,577,822 R115.88 Exercised during the year 5,943,004 R94.47 4,207,864 R 78.78 Expired during the year 5,328,228 R140.67 364,503 R102.75 Outstanding at end of the year 25,879,278 R126.71 36,950,389 R124.86 Exercisable at 31 December 1,890,932 R100.75 6,599,248 R 96.86 The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 have an exercise price in the range of R78 to R282.58 2009: R63.19 to R282.58 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.5 years 2009: 3 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R131.17 2009: R113.21.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average Options over shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd options exercise price options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 5,268,370 R16.40 5,291,160 R17.33 Conversion to options over Old Mutual plc see below 5,268,370 Granted during the year 1,614,690 R14.00 Forfeited during the year 359,940 R16.80 Exercised during the year 489,570 R10.60 Expired during the year 787,970 R18.83 Outstanding at end of the year 5,268,370 R16.40 Exercisable at 31 December 2,483,650 R13.99 Old Mutual plc 299 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had an exercise price in the range of R2.5 to R27.95 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.3 years.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during 2009 was R16.15.
In February 2010 the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interests in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd, with new Old Mutual plc shares issued in exchange for Mutual & Federal shares.
In conjunction with the acquisition, options previously held over shares in Mutual & Federal were converted into options over shares in Old Mutual plc, being converted at a rate consistent with the acquisition terms.
c Measurements and assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Share options are granted under a service and non-market based performance condition.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the grant date fair value measurement of the share options granted.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
The grant date for the UK and SA Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan annual awards is deemed to be 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue.
As such the Group is required to estimate, at the reporting date, the number and fair value of the options that will be granted in the following year.
The fair value of awards expected to be granted in 2011 which will have an IFRS 2 grant date of 1 January 2010, is shown separately below.
The grant date for all other awards is the award issue date.
300 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information All of the above model inputs are expressed as weighted averages.
The expected volatility is based on the annualised historic volatility of the share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the date of valuation of the option.
The expected life assumption is based on the average length of time similar grants have remained outstanding in the past and the type of employees to which awards have been granted.
e Share-based payment arrangements relating to US Asset Management During the year ended 31 December 2010, US Asset Management had the following share based payment arrangements: Acadian Asset Management AAM Class B equity interests in AAM acquired by employees during 2007 entitled the participating employees to 28.57% of the earnings of AAM in excess of $120 million, and to a liquidation preference proportionate to their shareholding.
In consideration for the equity acquired, the participating employees agreed to forego a portion of existing long-term incentive payments owed.
The difference between the carrying amount of this consideration and the fair value of the interest acquired was treated as share-based compensation expense in 2007.
Fair value was determined based on the discounted projected future cash ows of AAM.
OMAM Afliate Equity Plan Equity granted during the year to employees of rms participating in the OMAM Afliate Equity Plan vests 3-5 years from the date of grant, conditional upon continued employment over this period.
Fair value was determined based on a multiple of prior year earnings.
Under the terms of the arrangements, participating employees may sell their equity back to Old Mutual which acts as a buyer of last resort at a xed multiple of prior year earnings, subject to certain restrictions.
Accordingly, the schemes are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments, despite the fact the initial purchase and or grants of equity are settled in equity instruments.
The following summarises the fair value of instruments purchased from and granted by US Asset Management during the year: Total Afliate shares non-controlling Afliate share Afliate share forfeited interest in Fair value of instruments granted and purchased during the year purchases grants bought back afliate 1 AAM 2010 2009 2008 2007 28.57% 28.57% OMAM Afliate Equity Plan 2010 1.64% 2.89% 0.14 % 4.39% 2009 0.48% 0.44% 0.22 % 0.70% 2008 3.9% 2.5% 0.4 % 6.0% 2007 2.4% 7.3% 9.7% 2 Total fair value of instruments US$m 2010 $18.1m $18.1m 2009 $2.4m $2.4m 2008 $6m $6m 2007 $17m $9m $26m 1 Percentage of Class B equity.
2 Represents fair value in excess of consideration granted for afliate share purchases.
US Asset Management annual bonus awards The OMAM Afliate Equity Plan is incorporated into annual bonus awards of employees at participating rms, which are to be settled partly in cash, and partly in equity.
The level of bonus is contingent upon current year financial and individual performance, therefore the vesting period for bonus equity to be granted during 2011 in respect of the 2010 financial year has been determined to commence from 1 January 2010.
It is anticipated that instruments with a fair value of US$7.9 million 2009: US$8.7 million and 2008: US$3.5 million will be granted during 2010 to rms participating in the OMAM Afliate Equity Plan based on 2010 financial performance.
Old Mutual plc 301 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued G: Other notes continued G2: Share-based payments continued f Restricted share grants The following summarises the fair value of restricted shares granted by the Group during the year: Restricted Shares issued Weighted on buy-out of Number average fair M&F minorities granted value UK Restricted Share Plan 2010 2009 UK Share Reward Plan Restricted Shares 2010 5,221,865 1.22 2009 8,713,091 0.54 UK Performance Reward Plan Restricted Shares 2010 12,278,472 1.19 2009 3,091,695 0.58 OMSA Senior Black Management Scheme 2010 2,913,437 R14.24 2009 7,737,889 R8.56 OMSA Management Scheme 2010 11,224,113 R13.80 2009 27,739,043 R7.47 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 2010 221,435 R13.80 2009 643,089 R7.45 Old Mutual Namibia Senior Black Management Scheme 2010 147,110 R14.46 2009 85,457 R8.18 Nedbank Group 2005 Matched Share Scheme 2010 2009 194,248 R67.77 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Scheme 2010 2009 31,791 R84.12 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Scheme 2010 2009 168,313 R77.28 Nedbank Group 2005 Share Option Scheme 2010 2009 5,080,170 R75.36 Mutual & Federal Senior Black Management Scheme 2010 329,256 136,695 R12.14 2009 101,880 R16.17 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 2010 2,090,273 7,168 R13.93 2009 1,599,220 R13.79 Mutual & Federal Broad-based Employee Scheme 2010 545,748 2009 Mutual & Federal Distributor Scheme 2010 1,017,832 2009 Mutual & Federal Community Scheme 2010 1,017,832 2009 Mutual & Federal Black Business Partners Scheme 2010 13,909,976 889,768 R10.55 2009 282,501 R13.63 Mutual & Federal Namibia Management Incentive Scheme 2010 104,945 2009 54,550 R13.50 Mutual & Federal Namibia Senior Black Management Scheme 2010 10,577 2009 810 R17.50 Mutual & Federal Namibia Broad-based Employee Scheme 2010 17,443 2009 Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Business Partners Scheme 2010 207,275 10,491 R12.63 2009 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community Scheme 2010 76,768 3,886 R12.63 2009 Mutual & Federal Discretionary Scheme 2010 90,772 4,593 R12.64 2009 The share price at measurement date was used to determine the fair value of the restricted shares.
Expected dividends were not incorporated into the measurement of fair value where the holder of the restricted share is entitled to dividends throughout the vesting period.
302 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information g Annual bonus awards The UK and South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plans give rise to annual bonus awards.
The level of annual bonus awards is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of individual and Company performance targets, measured over the financial year prior to the date the employees receive the award.
The accounting grant date for the SA and UK annual bonus plans other than the new joiner and newly qualied grants has therefore been determined as 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue of the grants.
The Group anticipates awards under the South African scheme of 21,954,975 options 2009: 12,523,680 options and 18,612,145 restricted shares 2009: 12,643,027 restricted shares.
The options have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, using an at the money option assumption.
The restricted shares have been valued using a share price of R12.99 2009: R13.18.
The Group estimate of the total fair value of the annual bonus expected to be paid in the form of options and restricted shares under the UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan is outlined below.
The fair value is determined by making an estimate of the level of bonus to be paid out following the attainment of personal and Company performance conditions.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Total Total fair value, Vesting fair value, Vesting m period m period Old Mutual plc performance share plans restricted shares 64.2 years 9 4.2 years Old Mutual plc performance share plans options 34.2 years 7 4.2 years h Financial impact m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Expense arising from equity settled share and share option plans 13 35 Expense arising from cash settled share and share option plans 7 7 20 42 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share awards 21 19 Total intrinsic value liability for vested benets G3: Related parties The Group provides certain pension fund, insurance, banking and financial services to related parties.
These are conducted on an arms length basis and are not material to the Groups results.
a Transactions with key management personnel, remuneration and other compensation Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director whether executive or otherwise of the Group.
Details of the compensation paid to the Board of Directors as well as their shareholdings in the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 159 and Corporate Governance Statement on page 138 respectively.
b Key management personnel remuneration and other compensation Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Directors fees 12 1,510 91,214 Remuneration 22,819 13,590 Cash remuneration 18 6,675 13 4,777 Short-term employee benets 18 7,660 13 4,159 Post employment benets 10 451 12 587 Other long-term benets 714 37 Share-based payments 17 8,019 12 4,060 24,329 14,804 Old Mutual plc 303 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued G: Other notes continued G3: Related parties continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Number of Number of options options Number of shares Number of shares Share options personnel 000s personnel 000s Outstanding at beginning of the year 11 15,613 10 7,393 Leavers 2 482 3 848 New appointments 4704 2410 Granted during the year 425 10,803 Exercised during the year 966 1,171 Lapsed during the year 795 974 Outstanding at end of the year 13 14,499 11 15,613 Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Number of Number of options options Number of shares Number of shares Restricted shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Outstanding at beginning of the year 10 7,832 94,020 Leavers 2 1,565 3 724 New appointments 61,314 160 Granted during the year 12,282 5,376 Lapsed during the year 151 119 Released during the year 570 781 Outstanding at end of the year 14 19,142 10 7,832 c Key management personnel transactions Key management personnel and members of their close family have undertaken transactions with Old Mutual plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which are given below.
For current accounts positive values indicate assets of the individual whilst for credit cards and mortgages positive values indicate liabilities of the individual.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Current accounts Balance at beginning of the year 7265 6 11 Net movement during the year 407 276 Balance at end of the year 8672 7265 Credit cards Balance at beginning of the year 422 412 Net movement during the year 7 10 Balance at end of the year 529 422 Mortgages Balance at beginning of the year 53,028 41,896 Net movement during the year 1,125 1,509 Interest charged 86 190 Less repayments 334 863 Foreign exchange movements 136 296 Balance at end of the year 51,791 53,028 General insurance contracts Total premium paid during the year 318 533 Claims paid during the year 11 23 Life insurance products Total sum assured value of investment at end of the year 13 23,501 12 11,550 Pensions, termination benets paid Value of pension plan as at end of the year 13 6,714 11 5,648 304 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Various members of key management personnel hold, and or have at various times during the year held, investments managed by asset management businesses of the Group.
These include unit trusts, mutual funds and hedge funds.
None of the amounts concerned are material in the context of the funds managed by the Group business concerned, and all of the investments have been made by the individuals concerned either on terms which are the same as those available to external clients generally or, where that is not the case, on the same preferential terms as were available to employees of the business generally.
d Skandia Liv  Skandia publ Skandia Liv, is a related party to the Old Mutual Group.
Skandia Liv is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Skandia and its business is conducted on a mutual basis.
For the reasons given in the accounting policies Skandia Livs result is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Material transactions between the Group and the Skandia Liv group in 12 months ended 31 December 2010 were as follows: Q Agreement in principle and framework agreement on co-operation covering market related functions and certain staff functions this involves distribution and distribution support, customer service, market communication, administration of group insurance products, and staff and service functions.
Skandia Liv paid 88 million 2009: 73 million for services rendered under this agreement.
Q Premises the Group rents ofce premises from Skandia Liv.
The Group paid market rents of 16 million 2009: 15 million for these premises.
Q Occupational pensions Skandia Liv provides occupational pensions for the employees of the Group, for which the Group paid 15 million 2009: 19 million.
Q Agreement on IT services the Group provides IT services to Skandia Liv.
The amount charged to Skandia Liv was 7 million 2009: 7 million.
Q Settlement with Skandia Liv regarding the arbitration settlement In a ruling issues on 2 October 2008, the arbitration board ruled that the going rate level of compensation in the market pursuant to the 2002 Asset Management Agreement is a maximum of ten basis points including value added tax, and that Skandia for the time from 1 July 2008 and onward is obligated to pay an amount to Skandia Liv that corresponds to the share of asset management fees received that exceed ten basis points including value added tax.
A reserve to cover asset management fees for the time after 1 July 2008 was charged to the income statement.
On 21 July 2009, an agreement was reached between Skandia and Skandia Liv, under which Skandia will pay a xed amount per quarter until the end of 2013.
The total remaining amount to be paid to Skandia Liv is less than the reserve provision booked as per July 2009 with the difference resolved in 2009, the effect being a release of 10 million.
The remaining provision of 18 million has been reclassied and is shown as a liability to Skandia Liv in the statement of financial position.
Q Currency derivatives Skandia Liv hedge their currency position with forward contracts with Skandia Group at the prices prevailing on the foreign exchange market.
Skandia Liv paid 27 million 2009: 2 million for forward contracts during the year.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2009 due from Skandia Liv is 13 million 2009: 2 million.
Various other arrangements exist between the Group and Skandia Liv, principally in respect of provision of accounting, legal and treasury functions, all of which are transacted on an arms length basis.
Arbitration settlement During the previous financial year settlement was reached in the arbitration proceedings between Skandia, and Skandia Liv in respect of the sale of the Skandia Asset Management business to Den Norske Bank in 2002. e Nedbank Ltd During 2009 a Group subsidiary, Nedbank Limited, provided funding to the Group.
The funding was made through two loans of 69.5 million and 58.9 million with interest charged at EURIBOR and 6.55% respectively.
Both the loans have a maturity date of 6 August 2012.
Old Mutual plc 305 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued G4: Principal subsidiaries and Group enterprises The following table lists the principal Group undertakings whose results are included in the consolidated financial statements.
All shares held are ordinary shares and, except for OM Group UK Ltd, are held indirectly by the Company.
Name Nature of business Percentage holding Country of incorporation Old Mutual South Africa Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa OM Africa Holdings Pty Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Ltd Life assurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Pty Ltd Asset management 100 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Group Ltd Banking 59 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Ltd Banking 59 Republic of South Africa 1 Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd General insurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company Namibia Ltd Life assurance 100 Namibia Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, USA Old Mutual U. S. Life Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, USA Dwight Asset Management Company Asset management 100 Delaware, USA OM Financial Life Insurance Company Life assurance 100 Maryland, USA Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd Life assurance 100 Bermuda 2 Acadian Asset Management Asset management 100 Massachusetts, USA Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, Inc Asset management 100 Nevada, USA OM Group UK Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Life Assurance Company Ltd Life assurance 100 England and Wales Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited Holding company 100 England and Wales  Skandia Life assurance 100 Sweden Skandiabanken AB Banking 100 Sweden Old Mutual Netherlands B. V. Holding company 100 Netherlands 1 Following regulatory approval on 19 January 2010 the Group acquired the outstanding equity share previously-held by non-controlling interests and as a result now holds 100% 2009: 84% of the share capital of Mutual & Federal.
2 The Group holds 100% Class A shares and 71.43% Class B shares in Acadian Asset Management.
The remaining 28.57% Class B shares are held by the employees as described in note G2 e. A complete list of subsidiaries is led with the UK Registrar of Companies with the annual return.
All the above companies have a year end of 31 December.
306 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information As described in the accounting policies Skandia Liv is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Skandia Livs unaudited capital and reserves are summarised as follows: m unaudited At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Capital and reserves 31 27 profit loss after tax 2 5 G5: Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures a Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures The Groups investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures accounted for under the equity method are as follows: m Group share % Carrying of profit At 31 December 2010 Country of operation interest held value loss Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 29 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 8 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 10 Old Mutual Finance Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 50% 5 4 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 13 2 Old MutualGuodian Life Insurance Company Ltd China 50% 12 4 All other associated undertakings 85 5 162 7 All of the above investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are unlisted.
All investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2010. m % Carrying Group share of At 31 December 2009 Country of operation interest held value profit loss Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 23 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 9 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 10 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 16 3 Skandia BSAM China 50% 8 2 All other associated undertakings 69 1 135 2 b Aggregate financial information of investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures The aggregate financial information for all investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Total assets 2,032 1,426 Total liabilities 1,857 1,002 Total revenues 653 603 Net profit loss after tax 7 2 Old Mutual plc 307 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued c Aggregate Group investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures The aggregate amounts for the Groups investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures are as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Balance at beginning of the year 135 111 Net additions of investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 11 4 Share of profit loss after tax 7 2 Dividends paid 6 Foreign exchange and other movements 9 24 Balance at end of the year 162 135 The Group has no significant investments in which it owns less than 20% of the ordinary share capital that it accounts for using the equity method.
d Contingent liabilities The Group is severally liable for the contingent liabilities relating to investments in associated undertakings of 1 million 2009: 1 million.
e Other Group holdings The above does not include companies whereby the Group has a holding of more than 20%, but does not have significant inuence over these companies by virtue of the Group not having any direct involvement in decision making or the other owners possessing veto rights.
G6: Contingent liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 2,883 2,375 Irrevocable letters of credit 207 605 Secured lending 775 555 Other contingent liabilities 55 49 The Group has pledged debt securities amounting to 1,379 million 2009: 1,253 million as collateral for deposits received under re-purchase agreements.
These amounts represent assets that have been transferred but do not qualify for derecognition under IAS 39.
Nedbank structured nancing Historically a number of the Groups South African banking businesses entered into structured finance transactions with third parties using the tax base of these companies.
Pursuant to the terms of the majority of these transactions, the underlying third-party has contractually agreed to accept the risk of any tax being imposed by the South African Revenue Service SARS, although the obligation to pay in the first instance rests with the Groups companies.
It is only in limited cases where, for example, the credit quality of a client becomes doubtful, or where the client has specically contracted out of the re-pricing of additional taxes, that the recovery from a client could be less than the liability that could arise on assessment, in which case provisions are made.
SARS has examined the tax aspects of some of these types of structures and SARS could assess these structures in a manner different to that initially envisaged by the contracting parties.
As a result Group companies could be obliged to pay additional amounts to SARS and recover these from clients under the applicable contractual arrangements.
Nedbank litigation There are a number of legal or potential claims against Nedbank and its subsidiary companies, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
The largest of these potential actions is a claim in the High Court for R1.3 billion against Nedbank by certain shareholders in Pinnacle Point Group Limited, alleging that Nedbank had a legal duty of care to them arising from a share swap transaction.
Nedbank and its legal advisers are of the opinion that the claim is without merit and will be defended vigorously.
Nedbank Securitisations The Group through Nedbank is party to securitisation transactions involving GreenHouse Funding Pty Limited GreenHouse, a residential mortgage backed securitisation programme, Octane ABS 1 Pty Limited Octane, a securitisation programme of auto loans advanced by a subsidiary of Nedbank, and Synthesis Funding Limited Synthesis, an asset backed commercial paper mortgage programme.
308 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Synthesis primarily invests in long-term rated bonds and offers capital market funding to South African corporates.
These assets are funded through the issuance of short-dated investment-grade commercial paper to institutional investors.
All the commercial paper issued by Synthesis Funding Limited is assigned the highest short-term RSA local-currency credit rating by both Fitch and Moodys, and is listed on the Bond Exchange of South Africa BESA.
Under GreenHouse Series 1, R2 billion of residential mortgages originated by Nedbank Retail was securitised.
The commercial paper issued by GreenHouse has been assigned credit ratings by both Fitch and Moodys and is listed on the JSE.
The homeloans of GreenHouse continue to be recognised in the statement of financial position of the Group, due to the significant risks and rewards associated with the homeloans not being transferred to the external investors.
In January 2010 the arrears levels in GreenHouse breached the Arrear Trigger level.
As a result, the Stop Purchase Event remains in effect resulting in no further home loans other than servicing redraws i. e. access facilities on existing GreenHouse loans being acquired for as long as the arrears level remains above the Arrear Trigger level.
As a consequence, all capital repayments were directed to noteholders.
Octane is a securitisation programme of auto loans originated by a subsidiary of Nedbank.
The inaugural transaction entailed the securitisation of R2 billion of motor vehicle loans under Octane Series 1.
The commercial paper issued by Octane Series 1 has been assigned credit ratings by Fitch and is listed on the JSE.
The auto loans of Octane continue to be recognised on the statement of financial position of the Group due to the significant risks and rewards associated with the auto loans not being transferred to the external investors.
During 2010 the transaction continued to repay investors in the normal course, as envisaged in the transaction documents.
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Groups continuing involvement where appropriate, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset in the statement of financial position: m Carrying amount of assets Associated liabilities At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans 165 166 171 169 Motor vehicle nancing 59 122 78 134 Other financial assets Corporate and bank paper 155 145 Other securities 327 338 Commercial paper 484 484 Total 706 771 733 787 This table presents the gross balances within the securitisation schemes and does not reect any eliminations of intercompany and cash balances held by the various securitisation vehicles.
The value of any derivative instruments taken out to hedge any financial asset or liability, is adjusted against such instrument in this disclosure.
Comparative information relating to motor vehicle nancing has been restated to only disclose auto loans relating to the Octane transaction.
This approach ensures consistency with the disclosure provided for GreenHouse and Synthesis.
The effect of this restatement is a 21 million decrease in the carrying amount of motor vehicle nancing assets.
Old Mutual plc 309 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued G7: Commitments Capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are detailed in the table below.
The Groups management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Investment property 118 Property, plant and equipment 95 104 Commitments to extend credit to customers The following table presents the contractual amounts of the Groups financial instruments not included in the statement of financial position that commit it to extend credit to customers.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Original term to maturity of one year or less 4,294 1,983 Original term to maturity of more than one year 1,885 1,002 Other commitments, note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities 1,367 63 Assets are pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements with other banks and for security deposits relating to local futures, options and stock exchange memberships.
Mandatory reserve deposits are also held with local Central Banks in accordance with statutory requirements.
These deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
Commitments under the Groups operating lease arrangements are described in note G8.
G8: Operating lease arrangements a The Group as lessee m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, NonNonfall due as follows: Banking banking Total Banking banking Total Within one year 68 35 103 117 35 152 In the second to fifth years inclusive 233 97 330 212 115 327 After five years 292 70 362 240 72 312 593 202 795 569 222 791 b The Group as lessor m At At 31 December 31 December Assets subject to operating leases 2010 2009 Land 15 12 Buildings 115 70 Investment property 2,040 1,759 2,170 1,841 m At At 31 December 31 December Future minimum lease payments of contracts with tenants 2010 2009 Within one year 59 62 In the second to fifth years inclusive 142 149 After five years 76 21 277 232 310 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information G9: Fiduciary activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, and investment management and advisory services to third parties that involve the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held in a duciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Groups care.
These services give rise to the risk that the Group will be accused of misadministration or under-performance.
Total funds under management are disclosed in note B5.
G10: Events after the reporting date On 21 January 2011 the Group redeemed the 300 million Tier 2 bond repayable 21 January, taking the option to redeem at the first call date.
H: Discontinued operations and held for sale operations H1: Discontinued operations The results of the Groups United States life business, US Life, are shown as a discontinued operation in these financial statements.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had entered into an agreement to dispose of the controlling interest in US Life to Harbinger OM LLC, an afliate of Harbinger Capital Partners, and is seeking to gain regulatory approval for the sale.
The disposal is expected to be completed at or around the end of the first quarter of 2011.
US Life has been classied as a discontinued operation in these financial statements.
Analysis of the results of discontinued operations is given below.
a Income statement from discontinued operations m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Revenue 1,608 1,208 Expenses 1,557 1,314 profit loss before tax from discontinued operations 51 106 Loss on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 827 Loss before tax 776 106 Tax credit 63 35 Loss from discontinued operations after tax 713 71 b Statement of comprehensive income from discontinued operations m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Loss after tax for the financial year 713 71 Other comprehensive income for the financial year Fair value gains losses Available-for-sale investments Fair value gains 530 975 Recycled to the income statement 12 227 Shadow accounting 334 9 Currency translation differences exchange differences on translating foreign operations 29 68 Other movements 34 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 67 410 Total other comprehensive income for the financial year 112 715 Total comprehensive loss income for the financial year 601 644 Attributable to Equity holders of the parent 601 644 Total comprehensive loss income for the financial year 601 644 Old Mutual plc 311 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued c Net cash ows from discontinued operations m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Operating activities 167 191 Investing activities 63 144 Net cash ows 104 47 H2: Disposal group held for sale The assets and liabilities of the Groups United States life business, US Life, are shown as held for sale in these financial statements.
The Group has entered into an agreement to dispose of the controlling interest in US Life to Harbinger OM LLC, an afliate of Harbinger Capital Partners, and is seeking to gain regulatory approval for the sale.
On reclassication of the assets and liabilities of US Life to held for sale the fair value based on agreed terms with Harbinger less expected costs to sell was assessed and an impairment charge was taken to write down the net assets to this amount.
a Statement of financial position Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale m At 31 December 2010 Deferred tax assets 78 Deferred acquisition costs 551 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 506 Deposits held with reinsurers 36 Loans and advances 57 Investments and securities 10,794 Trade, other receivables and other assets 209 Derivative financial instruments assets 127 Cash and cash equivalents 26 12,384 Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale m At 31 December 2010 Long-term business policyholder liabilities 11,975 Deferred tax liabilities 22 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 222 12,219 Included within Investments and securities is 395 million of short term cash balances.
In addition to the disposal group held for sale, namely US Life, the Group had additional non-current assets held for sale of 7 million 2009: 1 million.
b Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent directly associated with disposal group held for sale m At 31 December 2010 Retained earnings 36 Available-for-sale reserve 18 Share-based payments reserve 1 55 312 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information c Fair value hierarchy Fair values of financial assets and liabilities m Fair value hierarchy Year ended 31 December 2010 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 127 127 Derivative financial instruments assets 127 127 Available-for-sale financial assets 10,046 525 9,186 335 Investments and securities 10,046 525 9,186 335 Total financial assets measured at fair value 10,173 525 9,313 335 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 960 17 943 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 960 17 943 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 960 17 943 Old Mutual plc 313 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued c Fair value hierarchy continued m For assets and liabilities held at the year end Gains Gains losses losses Gains recognised Gains recognised losses in other Foreign losses in other At recognised compreexchange recognised comprebeginning in income hensive Purchases Sales and Transfers Transfers and other At end of in income hensive of the year statement income and issues settlements in out movements the year statement income Level 3 financial assets Available-for-sale 419 1 12 116 211 21 38 17 335 8 financial assets Investments and 419 1 12 116 211 21 38 17 335 8 securities Total Level 3 financial assets 419 1 12 116 211 21 38 17 335 8 Level 3 financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income 888 71 57 108 35 943 67 statement Life assurance policyholder liabilities 880 67 57 35 1,039 67 Derivative financial instruments 8 4 108 96 liabilities Total Level 3 financial liabilities 888 71 57 108 35 943 67 Analysis of reasonably possible alternative assumptions m Reected in Reected in other income statement comprehensive income Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable changes changes changes changes Year ended 31 December 2010 14 11 Available-for-sale financial assets Investments and securities 14 11 Total Level 3 financial assets 14 11 Level 3 financial liabilities 28 11 Held-for-trading fair value through income statement Life assurance policyholder liabilities 28 11 Total Level 3 financial liabilities 28 11 For the above analysis, the determination of the impacts of the favourable and unfavourable changes was based on a reasonable range of favourable and unfavourable changes in the key observable inputs for the major types of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities.
314 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION At 31 December 2010 m At At 31 December 31 December Notes 2010 2009 Assets Investments in Group subsidiaries 8 8,993 9,373 Investments in associated undertakings 9 26 26 Other assets including intercompany 4 1,644 1,299 Derivative financial instruments assets 2 176 109 Cash and cash equivalents 438 414 Total assets 11,245 11,253 Liabilities Borrowed funds 3 1,406 1,451 Provisions 6 17 15 Other liabilities including inter-company 5 4,628 4,317 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 2 100 58 Total liabilities 5,883 6,109 Net assets 5,362 5,144 Shareholders equity Equity attributable to equity holders 5,362 5,144 The Companys financial statements on pages 315 to 329 were approved by the Board of Directors on 8th March 2011.
Julian Roberts Philip Broadley Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Old Mutual plc 315 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS At 31 December 2010 continued m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Cash ows from operating activities profit before tax 139 152 Capital gains included in investment income 4 Fair value movements on derivatives and borrowed funds 230 270 Foreign exchange movements on assets and liabilities 56 30 Other non cash amounts in profit Non-cash movements in profit before tax 178 300 Other operating assets and liabilities 52 87 Changes in working capital 52 87 Net cash inow from operating activities 404 400 Cash ows from investing activities Acquisition of interests in subsidiaries 17 Proceeds from sale and maturity of other investments 11 Other investing cash ow 22 Net cash inow outow from investing activities 5 11 Cash ows from nancing activities External interest received 58 90 External interest paid 112 129 Inter-company interest received Inter-company interest paid 39 38 Dividends paid to: Ordinary shareholders of the Company 95 Preferred shareholders 44 45 Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 9 4 Net purchase of treasury shares 20 6 Redemption of own shares 1 Issue of subordinated and other debt 542 Other debt repaid 104 404 Loan nancing received from paid to Group companies 35 16 Net cash outow from nancing activities 382 1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 23 414 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3 1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 414 3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 438 414 At 31 December 2010 and 2009 all cash and cash equivalents were in the form of cash balances.
During the year the Company recorded total dividend income from subsidiary undertakings of 650 million 2009: 658 million, of which only cash dividends from  Skandia publ of 38 million were received during the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: 55 million.
316 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2010 Millions m Number of Perpetual shares Preferred issued and Share Other Retained callable Year ended 31 December 2010 fully paid Share capital premium reserves earnings securities Total Attributable to equity holders of the Company at beginning of the year 5,518 552 770 2,571 563 688 5,144 profit for the year 142 44 186 Total recognised income and expense for the year 142 44 186 Dividends for the year 95 44 139 Acquisition of non-controlling interest in Mutual & Federal 147 15 129 144 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 24 2 17 11 30 Net purchase of treasury shares 20 20 Issue of share capital by the Company 4 4 Exercise of share options 6 1 4 5 Fair value of equity settled share options 8 8 Attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the year 5,695 570 795 2,708 601 688 5,362 Millions m Perpetual Number of preferred shares issued Share Share Other Retained callable Year ended 31 December 2009 and fully paid capital premium reserves earnings securities Total Attributable to equity holders of the Company at beginning of the year 5,516 552 766 2,561 409 688 4,976 profit for the year 156 45 201 Total recognised income and expense for the year 156 45 201 Dividends for the year 45 45 Shares repurchased in the buy back programme 1 1 Net purchase of treasury shares 3 3 Issue of share capital by the Company 2 2 Exercise of share options 2 2 2 Fair value of equity settled share options 10 10 Attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the year 5,518 552 770 2,571 563 688 5,144 Included within retained earnings of 601 million 2009: 563 million are distributable reserves of 598 million 2009: 514 million.
m At At 31 December 31 December Other reserves 2010 2009 Merger reserve 2,532 2,661 Share-based payment reserve 47 39 Attributable to equity holders of Company at end of the year 2,708 2,571 Old Mutual plc 317 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Financial assets and liabilities Company statement of financial position The Company is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities and inter-company balances.
The most important components of financial risk for the Company are interest rate risk, currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specic market movements.
The principal risk the Company faces is currency risk.
The Companys functional and presentational currency is GBP, whereas the functional currencies of its principal subsidiaries are South African rand, US dollar, Swedish krona and euro.
m Fair value through income statement Financial liabilities Non-financial Held-forLoans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2010 Total trading Designated receivables cost liabilities Assets Investments in Group subsidiaries 9,373 9,373 Investment in associated undertakings 26 26 Other assets including intercompany 1,299 1,146 153 Derivative financial instruments assets 109 109 Cash and cash equivalents 438 438 11,245 109 1,584 9,552 Liabilities Borrowed funds 1,451 906 545 Provisions 15 15 Other liabilities including intercompany 4,317 4,258 59 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 100 100 5,883 100 906 4,803 74 m Fair value through income statement Financial Non-financial Loans and liabilities assets and At 31 December 2009 Total Held-for-trading Designated receivables amortised cost liabilities Assets Investments in Group subsidiaries 8,993 8,993 Investment in associated undertakings 26 26 Other assets including inter-company 1,644 1,501 143 Derivative financial instruments assets 176 176 Cash and cash equivalents 414 414 11,253 176 1,915 9,162 Liabilities Borrowed funds 1,406 761 645 Provisions 17 17 Other liabilities including inter-company 4,628 4,569 59 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 58 58 6,109 58 761 5,214 76 318 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities All financial instruments, regardless of their IAS 39 categorisation, are initially recorded at fair value.
Details of the different fair value hierarchy classications are shown in the Group Accounts note E1 b.
Analysis of instruments at fair value m At 31 December 2010 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value 109 109 Heldfortrading fair value through income statement Investments and securities 109 109 Derivative financial instruments assets Total financial assets measured at fair value 109 109 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 100 100 100 100 Derivative financial instruments liabilities Designated fair value through income statement 906 906 Borrowed funds 906 906 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 1,006 906 100 m At 31 December 2009 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value 176 176 Held-for-trading fair value through income statement Investments and securities 176 176 Derivative financial instruments assets Total financial assets measured at fair value 176 176 Financial liabilities measured at fair value 58 58 Held-for-trading fair value through income statement Derivative financial instruments liabilities 58 58 761 761 Designated fair value through income statement Borrowed funds 761 761 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 819 761 58 Old Mutual plc 319 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 Financial instruments designated as fair value through the income statement Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through the income statement.
The maximum exposure to credit risk on investments and securities during 2010 was nil 2009: nil.
Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as financial liabilities at amortised cost under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through the income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual financial maturity At 31 December 2010 Fair value year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 906 184 68 946 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual financial maturity At 31 December 2009 Fair value year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 761 264 252 966 c Capital risk management Old Mutual plc is the holding company of the Group and is responsible for the raising and allocation of capital in line with the Groups capital management policies set out in note E11 to the consolidated financial statements and for ensuring the operational funding and regulatory capital needs of the holding company and its subsidiaries are met at all times.
d Currency risk The Company is exposed to effects of uctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash ows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Companys functional currency is GBP, whereas the functional currency of its principal operations is South African rand, US dollar, Swedish krona and euro.
The Company hedges some of this currency translation risk through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange rate contracts.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward exchange contracts and currency swap agreements.
The table below summarises the Companys exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk: m At 31 December 2010 GBP ZAR USD EUR SEK Other Reclassication Total Assets Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Derivative financial 1 instruments assets 1 19 89 109 Cash and cash equivalents 289 93 18 38 438 Other assets 8,102 11 681 141 1,727 10 10,672 Total assets 8,418 11 774 178 1,765 10 89 11,245 Liabilities 2 Borrowed funds 730 10 325 386 1,451 Derivative financial instruments 3 liabilities 11 89 100 Other liabilities 2,522 1,331 457 22 4,332 Total liabilities 3,252 21 1,656 457 408 89 5,883 320 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 m At 31 December 2009 GBP ZAR USD EUR SEK Other Reclassication Total Assets Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Derivative financial 1 instruments assets 10 6 31 129 176 Cash and cash equivalents 382 32 414 Other assets 7,857 11 1,056 145 1,557 11 10,637 Total assets 8,275 11 1,094 176 1,557 11 129 11,253 Liabilities 2 Borrowed funds 672 55 244 54 306 75 1,406 Derivative financial instruments 3 liabilities 4 54 58 Other liabilities 2,451 3 1,704 470 17 4,645 Total liabilities 3,123 62 1,948 524 323 129 6,109 1.
The reclassied derivative financial instruments of 89 million 2009: 129 million represent currency hedges for borrowed funds and so have been reclassied and netted against GBP and USD borrowed funds.
The totals of 730 million GBP 2009: 672 million, 325 million USD 2009: 244 million and 386 million SEK 2009: 306 million of borrowed funds have been disclosed as net of hedges in derivative financial instruments of 77 million 2009: 88 million, 12 million 2009: 41 million and 89 million 2009: 54 million respectively.
The derivative financial instrument of 89 million 2009: 54 million represents a currency hedge for borrowed funds and so have been reclassied and netted against SEK borrowed funds.
A 10% deterioration in the values of the major currencies shown above in relation to GBP would result in a decrease in the Companys equity holders funds of 17 million 2009: increase of 2 million.
e Credit risk The Company is principally exposed to credit risk through cash at bank and the ability of the subsidiaries to repay amounts due to the Company, which it holds to back shareholder liabilities.
Credit risk is managed by placing limits on exposures to any single counterparty, or groups of counterparties and to geographical and industry segments.
Credit risk is monitored with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposure to below investment grade holdings or the financial position of companies within the Group.
The following table analyses the credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent of financial assets bearing credit risk: m Investment Grade At 31 December 2010 AAA to BBB Not rated Total Investments in associated undertakings 2626 Derivative financial instruments assets 109 109 Other assets including inter-company 1,299 1,299 Cash and cash equivalents 438 438 Financial assets bearing credit risk 547 1,325 1,872 Investment Grade At 31 December 2009 AAA to BBB Not rated Total Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Derivative financial instruments assets 176 176 Other assets including inter-company 1,644 1,644 Cash and cash equivalents 414 414 Financial assets bearing credit risk 590 1,670 2,260 f Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that uctuating interest rates will unfavourably affect the Companys earnings and the value of its assets, liabilities and capital.
The Company employs currency and interest rate swap transactions to mitigate against the impact of changes in the fair values of its borrowed funds.
Details of the arrangements in place are shown in the Group Accounts note E7 Hedge accounting.
Old Mutual plc 321 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 g Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Companys short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Company has net current liabilities of 1,441 million 2009: 1,142 million, all of which represent liabilities to other Group companies or finance vehicles of loans that often have short maturity dates or embedded call options.
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows of both the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Companys existing revolving current facility of 1.25 billion does not mature until September 2012.
Details, together with information on the Companys borrowed funds, are given in note 3.
The key information reviewed by the Companys executive directors and Executive Committee, together with the Capital Management Committee, is a detailed management report on the Companys current and planned capital and liquidity position.
Forecasts are updated regularly based on new information received, and as part of the annual business planning cycle.
The Companys liquidity and capital position and forecast is presented to the Companys Board of Directors on a regular basis.
Further information on liquidity and the Companys cash ows is contained in other sections of this annual report, for example the business review and Group Finance Directors statement.
2 Derivative financial instruments The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Companys derivative financial instruments outstanding at the year end.
These instruments allow the Company to transfer, modify or reduce their foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Company undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Company.
m Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative At 31 December 2010 values values Assets Liabilities Exchange rate contracts Swaps 559 391 90 89 Forwards 164 11 559 555 90 100 Interest rate contracts Swaps 946 19 Total 1,505 555 109 100 m Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative At 31 December 2009 values values Assets Liabilities Exchange rate contracts Swaps 567 353 129 54 Forwards 113 95 4 680 448 129 58 Interest rate contracts Swaps 987 47 Total 1,667 448 176 58 322 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 The contractual maturities of the derivatives liabilities held are as follows: m More than Balance 3 months Between No sheet Less than less than 1 and More than contractual At 31 December 2010 amount 3 months 1 year 5 years 5 years maturity date Total Derivative financial liabilities 100 100 100 At 31 December 2009 Derivative financial liabilities 58 4 54 58 3 Borrowed funds m At At 31 December 31 December Notes 2010 2009 Senior debt securities and term loans 3 i 645 546 Subordinated debt securities 3 ii 905 761 Total borrowed funds 1,451 1,406 m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Fair valued through income statement 761 905 Amortised cost 546 645 Total borrowed funds 1,451 1,406 The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash ows based on contractual maturity dates for borrowed funds.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Less than 1 year 171 462 Greater than 1 year and less than 5 years 1,279 817 Greater than 5 years 536 536 Borrowed funds 1,815 1,986 i Senior debt securities and term loan m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Floating rate notes 89 43 Fixed rate notes 503 556 Total senior debt securities and term loans 546 645 The Company has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2007, syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility by a further two years until September 2012.
At 31 December 2010, 499 million 2009: 480 million of this facility was utilised, all in the form of irrevocable letters of credit 2009: 480 million.
In the current year there was no form of drawn debt 2009: nil.
During the year, the Company repaid 60 million bonds 30 million, 20 million and 10 million swapped into USD on inception.
In addition, R550 million oating rate note was repaid, along with Sterling loan note.
In the current year the Company issued no new debt.
Old Mutual plc 323 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 ii Subordinated debt securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 1 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0% 252 296 2 750 million repayable 18 January 2017 4.5% 609 509 Total subordinated debt securities 905 761 1.
This bond, issued on 20 January 2006, has a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and pays a coupon of 5.0% to 21 January 2011 and six month LIBOR plus 1.13% thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into a oating rate of six month STIBOR plus 0.50%.
The Company has the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at six monthly intervals thereafter.
This bond was redeemed after the end of the reporting period, at the first call date of 21 January 2011.
This bond, issued on 16 January 2007, has a maturity date of 18 January 2017 and pays a coupon of 4.5% to 17 January 2012 and six month EURIBOR plus 0.96% thereafter.
The principal and coupon on the bond were swapped equally into Sterling and US Dollars with coupons of six month LIBOR plus 0.34% and six month US LIBOR plus 0.31% respectively.
The Company has the option to repay the bonds at par on 17 January 2012 and at six monthly intervals thereafter.
4 Other assets m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Other receivables 10 11 Corporation tax 89 101 Accrued interest and rent 43 41 Other prepayments and accrued income 1 - Amounts owed by Group undertakings: Amounts falling due within one year 162 157 Amounts falling due after one year 989 1,339 Total other assets 1,299 1,644 5 Other liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Accruals and deferred income 59 59 Amounts owed to Group undertakings: Amount falling due within one year 1,388 1,692 Amount falling due after one year 3,181 2,566 Other liabilities Total other liabilities 4,317 4,628 6 Provisions m At At 31 December 31 December Note 2010 2009 Post employment benets 7 17 14 Other 1 Total provisions 15 17 7 Post employment benets The Company holds a provision in respect of the Old Mutual Staff Pension Fund Dened benefit pension scheme, which provides benets based on final pensionable pay for members within the Group.
The assets of the scheme are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to the scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benets over the remaining lives of participating employees.
The scheme is reviewed on a triennial basis.
During the year 2 employees 2009: 2 were directly employed by the Company.
The costs for these Directors and ex-Directors are disclosed within the Remuneration Report on page 159.
324 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 m Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Liability for dened benefit obligations 2010 2009 Change in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the year 61 55 Interest cost on benefit obligation 3 3 Benets paid 1 Actuarial gain losses 3 1 Projected benefit obligation at end of the year 61 62 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 41 35 Actual return on plan assets 4 2 Benets paid 2 Company contributions 4 4 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 41 47 Net liability recognised in balance sheet Funded status of plan 15 20 Recognised actuarial loss 3 1 Net amount recognised in balance sheet 14 17 m Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Expense recognised in the income statement 2010 2009 Expected return on plan assets 2 2 Interest costs 3 3 Total 1 1 % Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Principal actuarial assumptions 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.7 5.4 Expected returns on plan assets: Equities 7.5 7.2 Debt 4.5 4.2 Cash 5.7 0.5 Annuities and other 5.7 5.4 Future salary increases 4.8 4.7 Price ination 3.8 3.7 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions ination 3.7 3.8 % Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Plan asset allocation 2010 2009 Equity securities 37% 39% Debt securities 60% 60% Other investments 1% 3% Old Mutual plc 325 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 m Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Present value of dened benefit obligations 61 55 56 56 62 Fair value of plan assets 47 41 35 37 32 deficit 15 20 20 19 24 Experience losses arising on dened benefit plan liabilities: Amount 1 As a percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 2.0% 0.4 % 0.0% Experience gains arising on dened benefit plan assets: Amount 1 7 1 2 As a percentage 5.0% 3.0% 18.5 % 1.8 % 8 Principal subsidiaries m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Balance at beginning of the year 7,595 8,993 Acquisitions 22 Additions 1,417 358 Impairments 19 Balance at end of the year 9,373 8,993 On 24 December 2010, the Company increased its investment in the Ordinary share capital of Commsale 2000 Limited by 2.5 million.
On 14 December 2010, the Company increased its investment in the Ordinary share capital of OM Group UK Limited by 330 million via a reduction in loan nancing.
On 29 June 2010, the Company increased its investment in the ordinary B share capital of Millpencil Limited by $25.3 million.
Also included within additions is the Companys investment in subsidiary undertakings in respect of movements on the share based payments 8 million.
On 17 December 2010, the Company received 9% share SEK232.7 million in Skandia Leben Holding Gmbh as payment of a dividend in specie from  Skandia publ.
On 7 December 2010, the Company sold its entire holding in Skandia Investment Group Holdings to Skandia Life Assurance Holdings Limited for consideration of 1,000.
No companies were dissolved during the year.
326 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 The Company holds the following interests in Group companies: At 31 December 2010 Country of incorporation Class of shares % interest held Commsale 2000 Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Constantia Insurance Company Guernsey Limited Guernsey Ordinary 100%  Skandia publ Sweden Ordinary 100% Millpencil Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% OM Group UK Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Old Mutual Asset Solutions Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Old Mutual Capital Funding Jersey Limited Jersey Ordinary 100% Old Mutual Finance No.
2 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 50% Old Mutual Finance No.
4 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Old Mutual Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Sandlord Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Selestia Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia London Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia UK Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia Leben Holdings Gmbh Germany Ordinary 9% 9 Investments in associated undertakings The Company holds the following interest in associated undertakings: m At At Country of 31 December 31 December operation % interest held 2010 2009 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Limited India 26% 26 26 10 Commitments and guarantees m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Commitments 499 480 The commitments relate to letters of credit issued in support of the operations of a subsidiary company.
Any liability arising from these letters of credit would be recovered from the subsidiary company.
In February 2008, the Company issued a guarantee to a third party over a subsidiarys Old Mutual Bermuda obligations under the reinsurance contracts relating to the offshore investment products sold by a third party.
The maximum payment under this guarantee is $250 million.
This guarantee is accounted for as an insurance contract and payments will only arise should Old Mutual Bermuda be unable to meet its obligations under the relevant reinsurance contracts as they fall due.
11 Related parties Old Mutual plc enters into transactions with its subsidiaries in the normal course of business.
These are principally related to funding of the Groups businesses and head ofce functions.
Details of loans, including balances due from to the Company and terms and conditions thereon are set out below.
Disclosures in respect of the key management personnel of the Company are included in the Group related parties disclosures.
On 5 February 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling shareholding in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited.
As part of the transaction, the Company sold its shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited to OMLAC SA in a non cash transaction in return for novating Old Mutual plc loan notes totalling $234 million and it assumed the obligation for the discharge in 2015 of the unsettled share-based payment transaction with Mutual & Federal Black Business Partners for nil consideration.
There are no transactions entered into by the Company with associated undertakings.
Old Mutual plc 327 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 m Balance due Statement of Financial Position information from to At 31 December 2010 Subsidiaries: 1 OM Group UK Limited 962 Primemajor 4 4 Global Edge Technologies Pty Limited 1 3 Old Mutual International companies 4 Fairbairn Trust Company Limited 2 5 Bermuda Holdings companies 274 2 Skandia companies 2,460 6 Old Mutual SA companies 530 7 Old Mutual Financial Services companies 51 8 Old Mutual Business Services Ltd 56 9 Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. 471 Constantia Insurance Company Guernsey Limited 2 Old Mutual Netherlands BV 4 10 Pointspirit 28 12 Nedbank 122 13 Millpencil 10 14 GGP II 79 Other related parties: 11 Fairbairn Trust Company Limited 53 1.
The loan with OM Group UK Limited includes loan advances of $845 million, 68 million and AUD$7 million 2009: $1,518 million, 22 million and A$7 million.
The dollar facility expires on 30 September 2015, whilst the Sterling facility expires on 28 June 2013 and both facilities terms are at LIBOR 0.75%.
The Australian dollar facility expires 30 November 2011 and interest is charged at 9.60% per annum.
In addition, the balance also includes a subordinated loan of 350 million 2009: 350 million, with a term agreement of 6.75%, switching to oating rate LIBOR 2.48% after 12 years and a balance of 22 million which is deferred interest on the 350 million, with a term agreement of 12 month LIBOR plus 1.8% margin.
The balance with Skandia companies includes two loan notes with Skandia UK Limited, totalling 1,844 million, where the agreement states that interest is LIBOR 0.30% margin and is due to mature on 27 February 2013.
Also with Skandia UK is a balance of 49 million which is the deferred interest of the two loan notes and interest is charged at 12 month LIBOR and 0.30% margin.
The Company has a term loan agreement with Skandia Insurance Company Ltd where the agreement states that interest is STIBOR 7.3% margin and is due to mature on 31 January 2011.
In addition, the balance also includes various rolling deposits where the interest is charged at LIBOR or EURIBOR with no margin.
These deposits are with Skandia Life Assurance 30 million, Skandia Germany 57 million, Skandia Leben Holdings Gmbh 6.8 million, Skandia Holdings Ltd 79.8 million, SkandiaLink Spain 357 million and Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Limited of 18 million.
There is also a discount note with Skandia Financial Holdings BV of 1.9 million with a maturity date of 4 March 2011.
The balance with Old Mutual International companies includes one contingent loan facility of 4 million 2009: 4 million where the agreement states that no interest is charged and no maturity date is set in place.
The subordinated loan with Global Edge Technologies Pty Limited of R6.5 million 2009: R6.5 million.
There is no interest charged in respect to this advance as it has been fully provided for in the books of Old Mutual plc.
The balance with Bermuda Holding companies includes a oating rate note of $82 million, and 0.2 million and 0.35 million oating rate notes.
Interest charged is USD LIBOR 0.45% margin on the $82 million and GBP LIBOR 0.45% on the latter two.
In addition there are various discount notes.
The balance with Old Mutual SA companies includes one oating rate note $814 million 2009: $1,097 million.
Interest charged is USD LIBOR 0.45% margin and matures on 28 April 2013.
The balance with Old Mutual Financial Services companies includes long-term loan advances with no maturity dates of 13.6 million, on which interest is charged at the Bank of England base rate, interest free facility and an uncommitted money market deposit facility of 0.1 million, interest charged at a 12 month LIBOR, with a current balance 10 million.
The loan with Old Mutual Business Limited represents a long-term loan advance with no maturity date of 56 million, on which no interest is charged.
The loan with Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. is a $750 million subordinated cumulative perpetual note which bears interest at 8.00% per annum payable quarterly.
The notes have no mandatory maturity dates.
The loan with Pointspirit is a 500 million revolving credit facility where the agreement states that interest be charged at LIBOR 0.15%.
This RCF has no maturity date.
This represents amounts paid to the Fairbairn Trust Company Limited in respect of an ESOP for the purchase of the Companys own shares.
The balance with Nedbank consists of two loans, 69.5 million and 58.9 million.
Interest is charged at EURIBOR 6.55% and LIBOR 6.55%, with a maturity date of 6 August 2012 for both loans.
The balance with Millpencil is non-interest bearing and recallable at any time.
The balance with GGP II are 2 discount notes, $5 million maturing on 18 February 2011 and 74 million maturing on 17 March 2011.
328 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2010 m Balance due Outstanding amounts from to At 31 December 2009 Subsidiaries: OM Group UK Limited 1,335 Primemajor 4 Old Mutual Holdings Kenya 10 Global Edge Technologies Pty Limited 1 Old Mutual International companies 4 Fairbairn Trust Company Limited 2 Bermuda Holdings companies 563 Skandia companies 2,351 Old Mutual SA companies 692 Old Mutual Financial Services companies 79 Old Mutual Business Services Limited 126 Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. 453 Constantia Insurance Company Guernsey Limited 2 Old Mutual Netherlands BV 1 Pointspirit 27 Nedbank 124 Millpencil 8 Other related parties: Fairbairn Trust Company Limited 33 Income statement information m Ordinary Other Interest dividends amounts received received received At 31 December 2010 paid paid paid Subsidiaries 76 650 86 m Ordinary Interest dividends Other amounts received received received At 31 December 2009 paid paid paid Subsidiaries 88 658 122 12 Events after the reporting date On 21 January 2011 the Company redeemed the 300 million Tier 2 bond repayable 21 January 5%, exercising its option to redeem at the first call date.
Old Mutual plc 329 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
