MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 A: MCEV policies A1: Basis of preparation The Market Consistent Embedded Value methodology referred to herein and in the supplementary statements on pages 332 to 383 as MCEV adopts Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles issued in June 2008 and updated in October 2009 by the CFO Forum the Principles as the basis for the methodology used in preparing the supplementary information.
The CFO Forum announced changes to the MCEV Principles in October 2009 to reect inter alia the inclusion of a liquidity premium.
These changes afrm that the risk free reference rate to be applied under MCEV should include both the swap yield curve appropriate to the currency of the cash ows and a liquidity premium where appropriate.
The CFO Forum is undertaking further work to develop more detailed application guidance.
The Principles have been fully complied with for all businesses as at 31 December 2010.
The detailed methodology and assumptions made in presenting this supplementary information are set out in notes A2 and A3.
Where reference is made to Europe only, this generally captures the Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management businesses.
Throughout the supplementary information the following terminology is used to distinguish between the terms MCEV, Group MCEV and adjusted Group MCEV: Q MCEV is a measure of the consolidated value of shareholders interests in the covered business and consists of the sum of the shareholders adjusted net worth in respect of the covered business and the value of the in-force covered business.
Q Group MCEV is a measure of the consolidated value of shareholders interests in covered and non-covered business.
Noncovered business is valued at the IFRS net asset value detailed in the primary financial statements adjusted to eliminate intercompany loans.
Q The adjusted Group MCEV, a measure used by management to assess the shareholders interest in the value of the Group, includes the impact of marking all debt to market value, the market value of the Groups listed banking subsidiary, marking the value of deferred consideration due in respect of Black Economic Empowerment arrangements in South Africa the BEE schemes to market, as well as including the market value of excess own shares held in ESOP schemes.
A2: Methodology Introduction MCEV represents the present value of shareholders interests in the earnings distributable from assets allocated to the in-force covered business after sufficient allowance for the aggregate risks in the covered business and is measured in a way that is consistent with the value that would normally be placed on the cash ows generated by these assets and liabilities in a deep and liquid market.
MCEV is therefore a risk-adjusted measure to the extent that financial risk is reected through the use of market consistent techniques in the valuation of both assets and distributable earnings and a transparent explicit allowance is made for non-financial risks.
The MCEV consists of the sum of the following components: Q Adjusted net worth, which excludes acquired intangibles and goodwill, consisting of: free surplus allocated to the covered business: and required capital to support the covered business.
Q Value of in-force covered business VIF The adjusted net worth of the covered business is the market value of shareholders assets held in respect of the covered business after allowance for the liabilities of the in-force covered business which are dictated by local regulatory reserving requirements.
MCEV is calculated net of non-controlling shareholder interests and excludes the value of future new business.
Coverage Covered business includes, where material, any contracts that are regarded by local insurance supervisors as long-term life assurance business, and other business, where material, directly related to such long-term life assurance business where the profits are included in the IFRS long-term business profits in the primary financial statements.
The covered business does not include any business written in Skandia Liv.
Skandia Liv is a mutual life insurance company wholly owned by Old Mutual plc.
All assets and liabilities are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the mutual company.
Some types of business are legally written by a life company, but under IFRS are classied as asset management because longterm business only serves as a wrapper.
This business continues to be excluded from covered business, for example: Q New institutional investment platform pensions business written in the United Kingdom as it is more appropriately classied as unit trust business: and 336 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Q Individual unit trusts and some group market-linked business written by the asset management companies in South Africa through the life Company as profits from this business arise in the asset management companies.
The treatment within this supplementary information of all business other than the covered business is the same as in the primary financial statements, except for the adjusted Group MCEV which includes the impact of marking all debt to market value, the market value of the Groups listed banking subsidiary, marking the value of deferred consideration due in respect of Black Economic Empowerment arrangements in South Africa the BEE schemes to market, as well as including the market value of excess own shares held in ESOP schemes.
Free surplus Free surplus is the market value of any assets allocated to, but not required to support, the in-force covered business.
It is determined as the market value of any excess assets attributed to the covered business but not backing the regulatory liabilities, less the required capital to support the covered business.
Required capital Required capital is the market value of assets that are attributed to support the covered business, over and above that required to back statutory liabilities for covered business, whose distribution to shareholders is restricted.
The following capital measures are considered in determining the required capital held for covered business so that it reects the level of capital considered by the directors to be appropriate to manage the business: Q Economic capital: Q Regulatory capital i. e. the level of solvency capital which the local regulators require : Q Capital required by rating agencies in respect of the North American business in order to maintain the desired credit rating: and Q Any other required capital denition to meet internal management objectives.
Economic capital for the covered business is based upon Old Mutuals own internal assessment of risks inherent in the underlying business.
It measures capital requirements on an economic statement of financial position, with MCEV as the available capital, consistent with a 99.93% confidence level over a one-year time horizon.
For Emerging Markets, Retail Europe and Wealth Management capital determined with reference to internal management objectives is the most onerous and is the capital measure used, whilst for Nordic the regulatory capital requirement is the most onerous.
For US Life the required capital is based on the amount that management deems necessary to maintain the desired credit rating for the Company, whilst for Bermuda the required capital is set with reference to internal management objectives.
The required capital in respect of OMSAs covered business is partially covered by the market value of the Groups investments in banking and general insurance in South Africa.
On consolidation these investments are shown separately.
The table below shows the level of required capital expressed as a percentage of the minimum local regulatory capital requirements.
m At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2009 Required Regulatory Required Regulatory capital a capital b Ratio a b capital a capital b Ratio a b Emerging Markets 1,498 1,153 1.3 1,225 930 1.3 Nordic 135 135 1.0 104 92 1.1 Retail Europe 62 85 0.7 32 52 0.6 Wealth Management 278 162 1.7 213 143 1.5 US Life 468 196 2.4 462 193 2.4 Bermuda 403 n a 363 n a Total 2,844 1,731 1.6 2,399 1,410 1.7 The regulatory capital for Nordic has increased from 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2010 as a result of an increase in funds under management.
Local regulators within many of the Retail Europe countries allow intangible assets to be included as admissible regulatory capital.
In such cases the required capital reported for MCEV is net of these items, although each of the countries continues to be sufciently capitalised on the local solvency basis.
Skandia Leben in Germany is permitted under local regulations to include the unallocated policyholder profit sharing liability as admissible capital.
The required capital has increased due to a legislative change in Germany which has impacted the factoring business: receivables from factoring are required to be covered by share capital.
The required capital for Wealth Management has increased from 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2010 as a result of modelling renements.
The regulatory capital requirement for Wealth Management has been restated at 31 December 2009 to exclude the impact of a policyholder tax credit in Italy, which may be used to offset the capital requirement.
The Bermudan regulator allows intangible assets to be included as admissible regulatory capital.
Old Mutual plc 337 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Value of in-force covered business Under the MCEV methodology, VIF consists of the following components: Q Present value of future profits PVFP from in-force covered business: less Q Time value of financial options and guarantees: less Q Frictional costs of required capital: less Q Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks CNHR.
Projected liabilities and cash ows are calculated net of outward risk reinsurance with allowance for default risk of reinsurance counterparties where material.
Present value of future profits The PVFP is calculated as the discounted value of future distributable earnings taking account of local statutory reserving requirements that are expected to emerge from the in-force covered business, including the value of contractual renewal of in-force business, on a best estimate basis where assumed earned rates of return and discount rates are equal to the risk free reference rates.
It therefore represents a deterministic certainty equivalent valuation of future distributable earnings.
The certainty equivalent valuation approach is described in more detail in note A3.
Any limitations on distribution of such earnings due to statutory or internal capital requirements are taken into account separately in the calculation of frictional costs of required capital.
PVFP captures the intrinsic and time value of financial options and guarantees on in-force covered business which are included in the local statutory reserves according to local requirements, but excludes any additional allowance for the time value of financial options and guarantees.
Financial options and guarantees Allowance is made in the MCEV for the potential impact of variability of investment returns i. e. asymmetric impact on future shareholder cash ows of policyholder financial options and guarantees within the in-force covered business.
The time value of financial options and guarantees describes that part of the value of financial options and guarantees that arises from the variability of future investment returns on assets to the extent that it is not already included in the statutory reserves.
The calculations are based on market consistent stochastic modelling techniques where the actual assets held at the valuation date are used as the starting point for the valuation of such financial options and guarantees.
Projected cash ows are valued using economic assumptions such that they are valued in line with the price of similar cash ows that are traded in the capital markets.
The time value represents the difference between the average value of shareholder cash ows under many generated economic scenarios and the deterministic shareholder value under the best estimate assumptions for the equivalent business.
Closed form solutions are also applied in Europe provided the nature of any guarantees is not complex.
The time value of financial options and guarantees also includes allowance for potential burn-through costs on participating business, i. e. the extent to which shareholders are unable to recover a loan made to participating funds to meet either regulatory or internal capital management requirements or the extent to which reserves are inadequate to cover severely adverse experience.
In the generated economic scenarios allowance is made, where appropriate, for the effect of dynamic management and or policyholder actions in different circumstances: Q Management has some discretion in managing exposure to financial options and guarantees, particularly within participating business.
Such dynamic management actions are reected in the valuation of financial options and guarantees provided that such discretion is consistent with established and justifiable practice taking into account policyholders reasonable expectations e. g. with due consideration of the Principles and Practices of Financial Management, or PPFM, for South African business, subject to any contractual guarantees and regulatory or legal constraints and has been passed through an appropriate approval process by the local Executive team and, where applicable, the Board.
Assumptions that depend on the market performance such as crediting rates or bonus rates are set relative to the risk free reference rates subject to contractual guarantees and assuming that all market participants are subjected to the same market conditions.
Q Where credible evidence exists that persistency rates are linked to economic scenarios, allowance is made for dynamic policyholder behaviour in response to changes in economic conditions.
Q Modelled dynamic management and policyholders actions include the following: changes in future bonus and crediting rates subject to contractual guarantees, including removing all or part of previously declared non-vested balances where circumstances warrant such action: dynamic persistency rates for the US Life and Bermuda businesses, and dynamic guaranteed annuity option take-up rates for the South African business driven by changes in economic conditions and management actions: and changes in surrender values.
338 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued In determining the time value of financial options and guarantees at least 1,000 simulations are run to ensure that a reasonable degree of convergence of results has been obtained.
Where deemed appropriate, the number of simulations is increased to reduce sampling error.
Europe Whilst certain products within the European businesses provide financial options and guarantees, these are immaterial due to the predominantly unit-linked nature of the business.
Emerging Markets The financial options and guarantees mainly relate to maturity guarantees and guaranteed annuity options.
As required by the applicable Actuarial Society of South Africa guidance note, the time value of the financial options and guarantees included in the statutory reserves in the Emerging Markets businesses as at 31 December 2010 has been valued using a risk-neutral market consistent asset model, and is referred to as the Investment Guarantee Reserve IGR.
This reserve includes a discretionary margin as dened by local guidelines to allow for the sensitivity of the reserve to future interest rate and equity market movements.
This discretionary margin is valued in the VIF.
US Life The financial options and guarantees mainly relate to minimum crediting bonus rates.
Bermuda The financial options and guarantees mainly relate to the guaranteed minimum accumulation benets on Variable Annuity contracts.
Frictional costs of required capital From the shareholders viewpoint there is a cost due to restrictions on the distribution of required capital that is locked in the Company.
Where material, an allowance has been made for the frictional costs in respect of the taxation on investment return income and capital gains and investment costs on the assets backing the required capital for covered business.
The allowance for taxation is based on the taxation rates applicable to investment earnings on assets backing the required capital, although such tax rates are reduced, where applicable, to allow for interest paid on debt which is used partly to finance the required capital.
The run-off pattern of the required capital is projected on an approximate basis over the lifetime of the underlying risks in line with drivers of the capital requirement.
The same drivers are used to split the total required capital between existing business and new business.
The allowance for frictional costs is independent of the allowance for the cost of residual non-hedgeable risks as described below.
Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks sufficient allowance for most financial risks has been made in the PVFP and the time value of financial options and guarantees byusing techniques that are similar to the type of approaches used by capital markets.
In addition the modelling of some non-hedgeable non-financial risks is incorporated as part of the calculation of the PVFP e. g. to the extent that expected operational losses are incorporated in the maintenance expense assumptions or the time value of financial options and guarantees e. g. dynamic policyholder behaviour such as the interaction of the investment scenario and the persistency rates.
Residual non-financial risks include, for example, liability risks such as mortality, longevity and morbidity risks: business risks such as persistency, expense and reinsurance credit risks: and operational risk.
All such risks for which no or insufficient allowance is made in the PVFP or time value of financial options and guarantees, together with some allowance for hedge risk and credit spread risk in the US Life and Bermudan businesses, are considered within the allowance for the CNHR.
An allowance is made in the CNHR to reect uncertainty in the best estimate of shareholder cash ows as a result of both symmetric and asymmetric non-hedgeable risks since these risks cannot be hedged in deep and liquid capital markets and are managed, inter alia, by holding risk capital.
Considering the Group as a whole, most residual non-hedgeable risks have a symmetric impact on shareholder value with the exception of operational risk.
Old Mutual plc 339 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The CNHR is calculated using a cost of capital approach, i. e. it is determined as the present value of capital charges for all future non-hedgeable risk capital requirements until the liabilities have run off.
The capital charge in each year is the product of the projected expected non-hedgeable risk capital held after allowance for some diversication benets and the cost of capital charge.
The cost of capital charge therefore represents the return above the risk free reference rates that the market is deemed to demand for providing this capital.
The residual non-hedgeable risk capital measure is determined using an internal economic capital model based on appropriate shock scenarios consistent with a 99.5% confidence level over a one-year time horizon.
The internal economic capital model makes allowance for certain management actions, such as reductions in bonus and crediting rates, where deemed appropriate.
The following allowance is made for diversication benets in determining the residual non-hedgeable risk capital at a business unit level: Q Diversication benets within the non-hedgeable risks of the covered business are allowed for.
Q No allowance is made for diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks of the covered business.
Q No allowance is made for diversication benets between covered and non-covered business.
The table below shows the amounts of diversied economic capital held in respect of residual non-hedgeable risks.
Capital held in respect of non-hedgeable risks m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Emerging Markets 751 606 Nordic 362 333 Retail Europe 115 143 Wealth Management 622 563 US Life 678 661 Bermuda 274 619 Total 2,802 2,925 The capital held in respect of non-hedgeable risk for Emerging Markets has increased from 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2010 as a result of the strengthening of the South African Rand to Sterling.
The capital held in respect of non-hedgeable risk for Wealth Management at 31 December 2009 has been restated from 640 million to 563 million due to calculation renements.
The capital held in respect of non-hedgeable risks for Bermuda has reduced from 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2010 as a result of the change in the allowance for hedging basis risk that is now made in the determination of reserves for guaranteed benets, as well as other calculation renements.
A weighted average cost of capital rate of 2.0% has been applied to residual symmetric and asymmetric non-hedgeable capital at a business unit level over the life of the contracts.
This translates into an equivalent cost of capital rate of approximately 2.9% being applied to the Group diversied capital required in respect of such non-hedgeable risks.
Participating business For participating business in Emerging Markets, US Life and Bermuda, the method of valuation makes assumptions about future bonus or crediting rates and the determination of profit allocation between policyholders and shareholders.
These assumptions are made on a basis consistent with other projection assumptions, especially the projected future risk free investment returns, established Company practice with due consideration of the PPFM for South African business, past external communication, any payout smoothing strategy, local market practice, regulatory contractual restrictions and bonus participation rules.
Where current benefit levels are higher than can be supported by the existing fund assets together with projected investment returns, a downward glide path is projected in benefit levels so that the policyholder fund would be exhausted on payment of the last benefit.
340 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Spread-based products A market consistent valuation of spread-based products such as Fixed Indexed Annuities in US Life and Bermuda, where investment returns are earned at one rate and policyholders accounts are credited at a different rate with the difference referred to as spread is dependent on the extent that management discretion can target a shareholder profit margin and the decision rules that management would follow in respect of crediting or bonus rates in any particular stochastic scenario.
Where guaranteed terms are offered at outset of a contract that dictate the payments to policyholders throughout the term of the contract, these payments are valued using the certainty equivalent valuation technique.
These products, for example immediate annuities in payment, may therefore show a loss at point of sale under MCEV as investment margins are not anticipated while currently pricing practice does anticipate these margins.
If returns in excess of the risk free reference rates actually emerge in the future, these will be recognised in the MCEV earnings as they arise.
For business where the crediting bonus rate is set in advance, crediting rates are set by considering managements target shareholder margins throughout the contract lifetime subject to any guarantees.
For other business, projected crediting rates are set equal to the risk free reference rates less the anticipated margin to cover profit and expenses subject to any policyholder guarantees eroding the shareholder margins.
However, during the period following the valuation date the existing crediting rate is applied until the next point at which it can be varied.
Given the guarantees included within such products including consideration of a 0% oor for crediting rates, stochastic modelling is used to value such contracts.
Valuation of assets and treatment of unrealised losses The market values of assets, where quoted in deep and liquid markets, are based on the bid price on the reporting date.
Unquoted assets are valued according to IFRS and marked to model.
No smoothing of market values or unrealised gains losses is applied.
Asset mix The time value of financial options and guarantees and PVFP where relevant are calculated with reference to assets that are projected using the actual asset allocation of the policyholder funds at the reporting date.
However, if the current asset mix is materially different to the long-term strategic asset allocation as a result of market movements, projected assets are assumed to revert to the long-term strategic asset allocation in the shortto medium-term as appropriate.
Dened benefit pension scheme Where a dened benefit pension scheme within the covered business is in surplus or deficit on the liability basis that is used to determine future employer contributions, the employer pension fund expense assumptions incorporated within the VIF allow appropriately for the expected release of surplus or funding of the deficit.
Look through principle PVFP and value of new business cash ow projections look through and include the profits losses of owned service companies, e. g. distribution and administration, related to the management of the covered business.
Any profit margins that are included in investment management fees payable by the life assurance companies to the asset management subsidiaries have not been included in the value of in-force business or the value of new business on the grounds of materiality and because a significant proportion of these profits arise from performance-based fees.
Taxation In valuing shareholders cash ows, allowance is made in the cash ow projections for taxes in the relevant jurisdiction affecting the covered business.
Tax assumptions are based on best estimate assumptions, applying current local corporate tax legislation and practice together with known future changes and taking credit for any deferred tax assets.
No allowance is made for any further additional tax that would be incurred on the remittance of dividends from the life subsidiaries to Old Mutual plc, apart from the South African business where full allowance has been made for Secondary Tax on Companies STC that may be payable in South Africa at a rate of 10% and the impact of capital gains tax.
Furthermore, for the South African business it has been assumed that a reasonable proportion of the shareholder fund equity portfolio excluding Group subsidiaries will be traded each year.
Old Mutual plc 341 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The value of deferred tax assets is partly recognised in the MCEV.
Typically those tax assets are expected to be utilised in future by being offset against expected tax liabilities that are generated on expected profits emerging from in-force business.
MCEV may therefore understate the true economic value of such deferred tax assets because it does not allow for future new business sales which could affect the utilisation of such assets.
There is currently uncertainty around both the basis and effective date for possible taxation of fee income earned from fund managers by Swedish insurance companies and the expenses that can be relieved against such income.
At present we continue to treat fee income from our Swedish unit-linked business as being exempt from corporation tax within our MCEV.
An allowance for adverse taxation treatment is included as an operational risk within our CNHR.
The Emergency Budget of 22 June 2010 announced a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate by 1% per year for four years from the financial year beginning April 2011, ultimately bringing the corporation tax rate down to 24%.
The MCEV results at 31 December 2010 have been calculated using an ongoing UK corporation tax rate of 27% and each reduction in the tax rate will be included in future results as and when they are enacted.
The estimated positive impact on the VIF in respect of Wealth Management at 31 December 2010, assuming that all the annual reductions in the tax rate will be enacted, is 18 million.
However, only 4 million is allowed for at 31 December 2010 as an assumption change relating to the first tax rate reduction to 27%.
Further allowance will be made once future annual reductions are enacted.
New business and renewals The market consistent value of new business VNB measures the value of the future profits expected to emerge from all new business sold, and in some cases premium increases to existing contracts, during the reporting period after allowance for the time value of financial options and guarantees, frictional costs and the cost of residual non-hedgeable risks associated with writing the new business.
VNB includes contractual renewal of premiums and recurring single premiums, where the level of premium is pre-dened and is reasonably predictable, and changes to existing contracts where these are not variations allowed for in the PVFP.
Non-contractual increments are treated similarly where the volume of such increments is reasonably predictable or likely e. g. where premiums are expected to increase in line with salary or price ination.
Any variations in premiums on renewal of in-force business from that previously anticipated including deviations in non-contractual increases, deviations in recurrent single premiums and re-pricing of premiums for in-force business are treated as experience variances or economic variances on in-force business and not as new business.
VNB is calculated as follows: Q Economic assumptions at the start of the reporting period are used, except for OMSAs Non-profit Annuities and Fixed Bond products and US Life products where point of sale assumptions are used where applicable using economic assumptions at the middle of the reporting period as a proxy.
Q Demographic and operating assumptions at the end of the reporting period are used.
Q At point of sale and rolled forward to the end of the reporting period.
Q Generally using a standalone approach unless a marginal approach would better reect the additional value to shareholders created through the activity of writing new business.
Q Expense allowances include all acquisition expenses, including any acquisition expense overruns.
Q Net of tax, reinsurance and non-controlling interests.
Q No attribution of any investment and operating variances to VNB.
New business margins are disclosed as: Q The ratio of VNB to the present value of new business premiums PVNBP : and Q The ratio of VNB to annual premium equivalent APE, where APE is calculated as annualised recurring premiums plus 10% of single premiums.
PVNBP is calculated at point of sale using premiums before reinsurance and applying a valuation approach that is consistent with the calculation of VNB.
342 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Analysis of MCEV earnings An analysis of MCEV earnings provides a reconciliation of the MCEV for covered business at the beginning of the reporting period and the MCEV for covered business at the end of the reporting period on a net of taxation basis.
Operating MCEV earnings are generated by the value of new business sold during the reporting period, the expected existing business contribution, operating experience variances, operating assumption changes and other operating variances: Q The value of new business includes the impact of new business strain on free surplus that arises, amongst other things, from the impact of initial expenses and additional required capital that is held in respect of such new business.
Q The expected existing business contribution is determined by projecting both actual assets and actual liabilities including assets backing the free surplus and required capital from the start of the reporting period to the end of the reporting period using expected real-world earned rates of return.
The expected existing business contribution is presented in two components: Expected earnings on free surplus and required capital and the expected change in VIF assuming that the assets earn the beginning of period risk free reference rates as well as the deterministic release of the time value of options and guarantees, frictional costs and CNHR: and Additional expected earnings on free surplus and required capital and the additional expected change in VIF as a result of real-world expected earned rates of return on assets in excess of beginning of period risk free reference rates.
Q Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus includes the release of required capital and modelled profits from VIF into free surplus in respect of business that was in-force at the beginning of the reporting period, although the movement does not contribute to a change in the MCEV.
Q Operating experience variances reect the impact of deviations of the actual operational experience during the reporting period from the expected operational experience.
It is analysed before operating assumption changes, i. e. such variances are assessed against opening operating assumptions, and reects the total impact of in-force and new business variances.
Q Operating assumption changes incorporate the impact of changes to operating assumptions from those assumed at the beginning of the reporting period to those assumed at the end of the reporting period.
As VNB is calculated using operating assumptions at the end of the reporting period, this impact only relates to the value of in-force business at the end of the reporting period that was also in-force at the beginning of the reporting period.
Q Other operating variances include model improvements, changes in methodology and the impact of certain management actions, such as a change in the asset allocation backing required capital.
Total MCEV earnings also include economic variances and other non-operating variances: Q Economic variances incorporate the impact of changes in economic assumptions from the beginning of the reporting period to the end of the reporting period e. g. different opening and closing interest rates and equity volatility, increases in equity market values during the period as well as the impact on earnings resulting from actual returns on assets being different to the expected returns on those assets as reected in the expected existing business contribution.
It therefore also includes the impact of economic variances in the reporting period on projected future earnings.
Q Other non-operating variances include the impact of changes in mandatory local regulations and legislative changes in taxation.
An analysis of MCEV earnings requires non-operating closing adjustments in respect of exchange rate movements and capital transfers such as those in respect of payment of dividends and acquiring divesting businesses.
Return on MCEV for covered business is calculated as the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in local currency, except for Wealth Management, Long-Term Savings and total covered business where the calculations are performed insterling.
The anticipated expected existing business contribution for the 12 months following the year ended 31 December 2010 at the reference rate as well as in excess of the reference rate is provided to assist users of the MCEV supplementary information in forecasting operating MCEV earnings.
Note that the exchange rates that are used for such disclosure are the same rates that are used to translate current year earnings for comparability purposes.
Therefore the ultimate expected existing business contribution for the financial year ending 31 December 2011 may differ from these results.
Analysis of Group MCEV earnings Presentation of Group MCEV consists of the covered business under the MCEV methodology and the non-covered business valued as the unadjusted IFRS net asset value.
A mark to market adjustment is therefore not performed for external borrowings and other items not on a mark to market basis under IFRS relating to non-covered business.
Old Mutual plc 343 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued A3: Assumptions Non-economic assumptions The appropriate non-economic projection assumptions for future experience e. g. mortality, persistency and expenses are determined using best estimate assumptions of each component of future cash ows, are specic to the entity concerned and have regard to past, current and expected future experience where sufficient evidence exists e. g. longevity improvements and AIDS-related claims as derived from both entity-specic and industry data where deemed appropriate.
Material assumptions are actively reviewed by means of detailed experience investigations and updated, as deemed appropriate, at least annually.
These assumptions are based on the covered business being part of a going concern, although favourable changes in maintenance expenses such as productivity improvements are generally not included beyond what has been achieved by the end of the reporting period.
The management expenses attributable to life assurance business have been analysed between expenses relating to the acquisition of new business, maintenance of in-force business including investment management expenses and development projects.
Q All expected maintenance expense overruns affecting the covered business are allowed for in the calculations.
Q The MCEV makes provision for future development costs and one-off exceptional expenses such as those incurred on the integration of businesses following an acquisition, restructuring costs and costs related to Solvency II implementation that relate to covered business to the extent that such project costs are known with sufficient certainty, based on three year business plans.
Q Unallocated Group holding company expenses have been included to the extent that they relate to the covered business.
The table below shows the future expenses attributable to the long-term business.
The allocation of these expenses aligns to the proportion that the management expenses incurred by the covered businesses to the total management expenses incurred in the Group.
Group holding Company expenses attributable to long-term business % At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Emerging Markets 17 16 Nordic 4 4 Retail Europe 3 3 Wealth Management 6 8 US Life 2 2 Bermuda Total 32 33 344 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued In line with legislation in Germany, a specified proportion of miscellaneous profits is shared with policyholders.
The revenue on in-force business can be reduced by various expense items, including those costs arising in respect of new business acquisition expenses in any year.
Skandia Leben in Germany therefore sets the best estimate assumptions for the amount to be shared with policyholders in future years after making an allowance for the acquisition expenses in relation to the new business expected to be written over the next three years.
However note that, as previously mentioned, MCEV excludes the value of future new business.
Economic assumptions An active basis is applied to set pre-tax investment and economic assumptions to reect the economic conditions prevailing on the reporting date.
Economic assumptions are set consistently, for example future bonus or crediting rates are set at levels consistent with the investment return assumptions.
Under a market consistent valuation, economic assumptions are determined such that projected cash ows are valued in line with the prices of similar cash ows that are traded on the capital markets.
Thus, risk free cash ows are discounted at a risk free reference rate and equity cash ows at an equity rate.
In practice for the PVFP, where cash ows do not depend on or vary linearly with market movements, a certainty equivalent method is used which assumes that actual assets held earn, before tax and investment management expenses, risk free reference rates including any liquidity adjustment and all the cash ows are discounted using risk free reference rates including any liquidity adjustment which are gross of tax and investment management expenses.
The deterministic certainty equivalent method is purely a valuation technique and over time the expectation is still that risk premiums will be earned on assets such as equities and corporate bonds.
Risk free reference rates and ination The risk free reference rates, reinvestment rates and discount rates are determined with reference to the swap yield curve appropriate to the currency of the cash ows.
For Europe the swap yield curve is obtained from a number of sources including Bloomberg, Nordea Bank and Reuters.
For the Emerging Markets and United States businesses, the swap yield curve is sourced from a third party market consistent asset model that is used to generate the economic scenarios that are required to value the time value of financial options and guarantees.
At 31 December 2010, no adjustments are made to swap yields to allow for liquidity premiums or credit risk premiums, apart from a liquidity adjustment to the US Life business and OMSAs Immediate Annuity business.
Any other risk premiums are recognised within the MCEV as and when they are earned.
A wide range of liquidity market data and literature was reviewed at 31 December 2010.
This included the CRO CFO Forum formula which derives the liquidity premium based on corporate bond spreads, with 100% of the liquidity premium applied to immediate annuity business and 75% applied to participating business and xed deferred annuities to allow for differences in the predictability of cash ows on these products.
The review also included the Barrie Hibbert calibration of US corporate bond spreads using a structural Merton-style model which decomposes the yields of illiquid assets into their constituent parts, and a comparison of the yields of similar durations on South African government bonds and bonds issued by state-owned enterprises.
It is the directors view that a proportion of corporate bond spreads at 31 December 2010 is attributable to a liquidity premium rather than only to credit and default allowances and that returns in excess of swap rates can be achieved, rather than entire corporate bond spreads being lost to worsening default experience.
For the US Life business and OMSAs Immediate Annuity business the currency, credit quality and duration of the actual corporate bond portfolios were considered and adjusted risk free reference rates were derived at 31 December 2010 by adding 75bps of liquidity premium for the US Life business 31 December 2009: 100bps and adding 45bps of liquidity premium for OMSAs Immediate Annuity business 31 December 2009: 50bps to the swap rates used for setting investment return and discounting assumptions.
These adjustments reect the liquidity premium component in corporate bond spreads over swap rates that is expected to be earned on the portfolios.
Old Mutual believes that the differences between market yields on US Lifes and OMSAs bond portfolios and the adjusted risk free reference rates still provide substantial implied margins for default.
At those durations where swap yields are not available, e. g. due to lack of a sufciently liquid or deep swap market, the swap curve is extended using appropriate interpolation or extrapolation techniques.
Consumer price ination assumptions are determined as those implied by index-linked government stocks or real swap yields if a liquid market of sufficient size exists.
In other markets, the consumer price ination assumptions are modelled considering a spread compared to swap rates.
However, where modelling system capabilities are restricted e. g. US Life, consumer price ination is set as a at assumption.
Other types of ination such as expense ination are derived on a consistent basis and, where deemed appropriate, include a percentage addition to the consumer price ination rate, for example as life company expenses include a large element of salary related expenses.
The risk free reference spot yields excluding any applicable liquidity adjustments and expense ination rates at various terms for each of the significant regions are provided in the table below.
The risk free reference spot yield curve has been derived from mid swap rates at the reporting date.
Old Mutual plc 345 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Risk free reference spot yields excluding any applicable liquidity adjustments % GBP EUR USD ZAR SEK At 31 December 2010 1 year 0.9 1.3 0.4 5.6 2.3 5 years 2.7 2.5 2.2 7.4 3.3 10 years 3.6 3.3 3.4 8.2 3.7 20 years 4.0 3.7 4.0 8.1 4.0 At 31 December 2009 1 year 0.9 1.3 0.7 7.3 0.8 5 years 3.4 2.8 3.0 8.9 2.9 10 years 4.1 3.6 4.0 9.2 3.7 20 years 4.3 4.1 4.5 8.2 4.1 In prior reporting periods, the risk free spot yields disclosed for GBP were on a 1-year forward basis.
The assumptions as at 31 December 2010, as well as 31 December 2009, are now shown as annualised spot yields, consistent with other regions.
Expense ination % GBP EUR USD ZAR SEK At 31 December 2010 1 year 3.0 2.5 3.0 5.0 2.2 5 years 4.3 2.5 3.0 6.4 3.0 10 years 5.3 2.5 3.0 7.2 3.2 20 years 5.1 2.5 3.0 7.0 3.3 At 31 December 2009 1 year 3.3 2.5 3.0 6.4 1.1 5 years 3.8 2.5 3.0 7.5 2.6 10 years 4.4 2.5 3.0 7.7 2.8 20 years 4.8 2.5 3.0 6.7 3.0 Volatilities and correlations Where cash ows contain financial options and guarantees that do not move linearly with market movements, asset cash ows are projected and all cash ows discounted using risk-neutral stochastic models.
These models project the assets and liabilities using a distribution of asset returns where all asset types, on average, earn the same risk free reference rates.
Apart from the risk free reference yields specified above, other key economic assumptions for the calibration of economic scenarios include the implied volatilities for each asset class and correlations of investment returns between different asset classes.
The volatility assumptions for the calibration of economic scenarios that are used in the stochastic models are, where possible, based on those implied from appropriate derivative prices such as equity options or swaptions in respect of guarantees that are dependent on changes in equity markets and interest rates respectively as observed on the valuation date.
However, historic implied and historic observed volatilities of the underlying instruments and expert opinion are considered where there are concerns over the depth or liquidity of the market, e. g. volatilities for property returns.
Where strict adherence to the above is not possible, for example where markets only exist at short durations such as the equity option market in South Africa, interpolation or extrapolation techniques are used to derive volatility assumptions for the full term structure of the liabilities.
Correlation assumptions between asset classes that are used in stochastic models are based on an assessment of historic relationships.
Where historic data is used in setting volatility or correlation assumptions, a suitable time period is considered for analysing historic data including consideration of the appropriateness of historical data where economic conditions were materially different to current conditions.
For the Emerging Markets stochastic models, due to the immateriality of corporate bond and property holdings, corporate bonds are assumed to yield the same returns as equivalent long-term government bonds and property is assumed to earn a return equal to a portfolio that is invested 50% in local equities and 50% in long-term government bonds.
346 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The at-the-money annualised asset volatility assumptions of the asset classes incorporated in the stochastic models are detailed below.
The assumptions for 31 December 2010 as well as 31 December 2009 are now shown as modelled volatilities, consistent with the disclosure of interest rate volatilities in South Africa.
Market volatilities for 1-year option terms and 1-year swap tenors are signicantly different to modelled volatilities, with the calibration ensuring a reasonable t across the entire spectrum of modelled option terms and swap tenors instead of focusing the calibration in this area.
In prior reporting periods, the volatilities disclosed for Bermuda were on a 1-year forward basis for most indices.
The assumptions at 31 December 2010, as well as the comparatives for prior periods, are now shown as the annualised volatilities applicable over the entire option term specified, consistent with the disclosure of volatilities for other regions.
These volatilities, as represented by their Bloomberg codes, refer to the price indices.
Due to ongoing enhancements in the fund mapping process, the indices referenced may vary from period to period.
Exchange rates All MCEV gures are calculated in local currency and translated to GBP using the appropriate exchange rates as detailed in Note C2 of the IFRS statements.
Expected asset returns in excess of the risk free reference rates The expected asset returns in excess of the risk free reference rates have no bearing on the calculated MCEV other than the calculation of the expected existing business contribution in the analysis of MCEV earnings.
Real-world economic assumptions are determined with reference to one-year forward risk free reference rates applicable to the currency of the liabilities at the start of the reporting period.
All other economic assumptions, for example future bonus or crediting rates, are set at levels consistent with the real-world investment return assumptions.
Equity and property risk premiums incorporate both historical relationships and the directors view of future projected returns in each region.
Pre-tax real-world economic assumptions are determined as follows: Q The equity risk premium is 3.5% for Africa and 3% for Europe and the United States.
Q The corporate bond return is based on actual corporate bond spreads on the reporting date less an allowance for defaults.
Q The property risk premium is 1.5% in Africa and 2% in Europe.
Tax The weighted average effective tax rates that apply to the cash ow projections within the VIF at 31 December 2010 are set out below: Q OMSA 33% 31 December 2009: 33% Q Namibia 0% 31 December 2009: 0% Q Nordic 4% 31 December 2009: 4% Q Retail Europe 27% 31 December 2009: 28% Q Wealth Management 11% 31 December 2009: 13% Q US Life 0% 31 December 2009: 0% Q Bermuda 0% 31 December 2009: 0% 348 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B: Segment information B1: Adjusted Group MCEV presented per business line m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 MCEV of the core covered business 7,417 6,147 Adjusted net worth 2,414 1,954 Value of in-force business 5,003 4,193 MCEV of the Bermuda non-core covered business 287 198 Adjusted net worth 403 363 Value of in-force business 116 165 MCEV of the US Life discontinued covered business 189 318 Adjusted net worth 534 498 Value of in-force business 723 816 Adjusted net worth of asset management and other business 1,950 1,716 Emerging Markets 289 216 Nordic 4 75 Retail Europe 14 12 Wealth Management 171 152 US Asset Management 1,472 1,411 Value of the banking business 3,603 2,948 Nordic adjusted net worth 328 314 Nedbank market value 3,275 2,634 Value of the general insurance business Mutual & Federal 409 448 Net other business 31 123 Adjustment for present value of Black Economic Empowerment scheme deferred consideration 266 221 Adjustment for value of own shares in ESOP schemes 85 71 Perpetual preferred securities USD denominated 449 385 Perpetual preferred callable securities 598 477 GBP denominated 270 224 Euro denominated 328 253 Debt 1,782 1,664 Rand denominated 304 290 USD denominated 337 338 GBP denominated 842 759 SEK denominated 297 256 Euro denominated 2 21 Adjusted Group MCEV 11,030 9,028 Adjusted net worth is after the elimination of inter-company loans.
Includes the adjusted net worth of Nordic holding companies that are classied as non-covered business, net of the holding companies investment in Group subsidiaries.
Reected at IFRS net asset value at 31 December 2010 and at market value for 31 December 2009 as a result of the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interest in Mutual & Federal.
Includes adjustment for value of excess own shares in employee share scheme trusts.
The movement in value between 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010 is the net effect of the increase in the Old Mutual plc share price, the reduction in excess own shares following employee share grants in March 2010 and the reduction in overall shares held due to exercises of rights to take delivery of, or net settle, share grants during the year.
Old Mutual plc 349 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B2: Adjusted operating MCEV earnings for the covered business m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Adjusted operating MCEV earnings before tax for the covered business Long-Term Savings 705 252 Emerging Markets 443 272 Nordic 65 78 Retail Europe 68 58 Wealth Management 129 40 US Life 48 302 Bermuda 28 8 725 562 Tax on adjusted operating MCEV earnings for the covered business Long-Term Savings 138 7 Emerging Markets 99 60 Nordic 20 3 Retail Europe 2 14 Wealth Management 17 36 US Life 1 36 Bermuda 4 27 135 70 Adjusted operating MCEV earnings after tax for the covered business Long-Term Savings 567 245 Emerging Markets 344 212 Nordic 45 81 Retail Europe 66 44 Wealth Management 112 4 US Life 47 266 Bermuda 24 19 590 492 Tax on adjusted operating MCEV earnings comprises Tax on adjusted operating MCEV earnings for the covered business 135 70 Tax on adjusted operating MCEV earnings for other business 175 139 Tax on adjusted operating MCEV earnings 310 209 350 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B3: Components of MCEV of the covered business m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 MCEV of the covered business 7,515 6,027 Adjusted net worth 3,351 2,815 Value of in-force business 4,164 3,212 Long-Term Savings Adjusted net worth 2,414 1,954 Free surplus 441 380 Required capital 1,973 1,574 Value of in-force business 5,003 4,193 Present value of future profits 5,557 4,667 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 12 7 Frictional costs 267 211 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 275 256 Consisting of : Emerging Markets Adjusted net worth 1,804 1,305 Free surplus 306 80 Required capital 1,498 1,225 Value of in-force business 1,509 1,158 Present value of future profits 1,849 1,424 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees Frictional costs 240 181 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 100 85 Nordic Adjusted net worth 186 195 Free surplus 51 91 Required capital 135 104 Value of in-force business 1,318 1,114 Present value of future profits 1,397 1,196 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees Frictional costs 6 11 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 73 71 Retail Europe Adjusted net worth 103 78 Free surplus 41 46 Required capital 62 32 Value of in-force business 520 453 Present value of future profits 573 507 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 10 6 Frictional costs 11 7 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 32 41 Old Mutual plc 351 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B3: Components of MCEV of the covered business m At At 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Wealth Management Adjusted net worth 321 376 Free surplus 43 163 Required capital 278 213 Value of in-force business 1,656 1,468 Present value of future profits 1,738 1,540 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 2 1 Frictional costs 10 12 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 70 59 US Life Discontinued Adjusted net worth 534 498 Free surplus 66 36 Required capital 468 462 Value of in-force business 723 816 Present value of future profits 446 511 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 186 213 Frictional costs 7 6 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 84 86 Bermuda Non-core Adjusted net worth 403 363 Free surplus Required capital 403 363 Value of in-force business 116 165 Present value of future profits 145 99 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 235 196 Frictional costs 2 4 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 24 64 The required capital in respect of OMSA is partially covered by the market value of the Groups investments in banking and general insurance in South Africa.
352 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax The Long-Term Savings segment consists of Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management.
m Year ended 31 December 2011 Adjusted Free Required net Value of Long-Term Savings LTS surplus capital worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 16 65 81 173 254 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 6 4 2 67 69 Old Mutual plc 353 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax continued m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted Value of Free Required net Value of Free Required net Emerging Markets surplus capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital worth in-force MCEV Opening MCEV 80 1,225 1,305 1,158 2,463 92 1,075 983 1,090 2,073 New business value 159 134 25 111 86 136 110 26 91 65 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 67379 124 203 7 85 78 129 207 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 3 3 16 13 55 16 21 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 356 166 190 190 314 146 168 168 Experience variances 11 14 25 10 35 9 9 18 35 53 Assumption changes 19 19 18 37 40 29 11 90 79 Other operating variance 6 2 8 22 30 46 27 19 32 51 Operating MCEV earnings 227 50 277 67 344 248 11 237 25 212 Economic variances 57 21 78 84 162 54 1 55 39 16 Other non-operating variance 4 415 Total MCEV earnings 288 71 359 152 511 302 10 292 64 228 Closing adjustments 62 202 140 199 339 130 160 30 132 162 Capital and dividend ows 93 93 93 146 3 149 149 Foreign exchange variance 31 202 233 199 432 3160 163 156 319 MCEV of acquired sold business 13 3 16 24 8 Closing MCEV 306 1,498 1,804 1,509 3,313 80 1,225 1,305 1,158 2,463 Return on MCEV RoEV % per annum 13.2% 9.8% m Year ended 31 Year ended December 2010 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted net Value of net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience variances 25 10 35 18 35 53 Persistency 29 5 34 9 44 53 Risk 11 7 18 16 16 Expenses 15 4 11 30 11 19 Other 6 6 5 2 3 Assumption changes 19 18 37 11 90 79 Persistency 22 29 55 84 Risk 17 1 16 30 20 50 Expenses 215 17 10 55 45 Other 22 m Year ended 31 December 2011 Required Adjusted Value of Emerging Markets Free surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 12 60 72 106 178 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 4 4 16 12 The MCEV for Emerging Markets is presented after the adjustment for market value of life fund investments in Group equity and debt instruments.
354 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The marginal decrease in expected existing business contribution reference rate from 2009 to 2010 is mainly attributable to a lower one-year swap rate at 31 December 2009 7.3% compared to 31 December 2008 9.3% offset by a higher opening MCEV.
The expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate on the ANW has reduced from 2009 to 2010 due to a higher cash allocation assumed for shareholder funds.
The positive experience variances are mainly attributable to favourable persistency experience, as well as a small positive contribution from risk experience.
Operating assumption changes are positive in 2010 consisting mainly of an improvement in fees relative to maintenance expenses in the Corporate Segment due to economies of scale from an increasing fund membership: and an increase in annuitant mortality rates in Retail Afuent, following a recent mortality investigation which is supported by positive annuitant mortality experience variances.
The negative other operating variance was caused by various methodology changes and error corrections.
In addition to the effects above, other significant movements affecting the closing MCEV include a large positive impact from economic variances due to a combination of better than assumed equity returns and the effect of the changes in the shape of the swap yield curve.
This was partially offset by modelling enhancements to the economic scenario generator used to calculate the investment guarantee reserve, which caused a decrease in the margin buffer held to protect against future market volatility, resulting in less value being released as profit in the future.
The capital and dividend ows mainly consist of the purchase of additional Nedbank shares.
The strengthening of the rand relative to sterling had a significant positive effect on the increase in MCEV.
Return on MCEV is the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in rand including conversion of results for Mexico to rand.
Old Mutual plc 355 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax continued m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted Free Required net Value of Free Required net Value of Nordic surplus capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital worth in-force MCEV Opening MCEV 91 104 195 1,114 1,309 58 105 163 882 1,045 New business value 49 6 43 84 41 57 6 51 95 44 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 11 14 15 4 4 18 22 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 26 26 14 14 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 103 103 103 81 17 64 64 Experience variances 30 5 25 1 24 28 7 21 10 31 Assumption changes 55 55 3 3 30 27 Other operating variance 44 4 40 34 6 3 3 Operating MCEV earnings 40 6 46 1 45 59 18 41 40 81 Economic variances 4 12 8 86 94 5 17 12 192 204 Other non-operating variance 17 17 17 18 18 1 19 Total MCEV earnings 53 18 71 85 156 72 1 71 233 304 Closing adjustments 93 13 80 119 39 39 39 1 40 Capital and dividend ows 100 100 100 37 37 37 Foreign exchange variance 713 20 119 139 2 2 1 3 Closing MCEV 51 135 186 1,318 1,504 91 104 195 1,114 1,309 Return on MCEV RoEV % per annum 3.3% 8.1% m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted net Value of net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience variances 25 1 24 21 10 31 Persistency 2 6 8 2 5 3 Risk 5 5 6 1 5 Expenses 2 2 3 1 2 Other 20 5 25 14 7 21 Assumption changes 55 55 3 30 27 Persistency 7 7 29 29 Risk 1919 Expenses 18 18 18 18 Other 30 30 3 2 1 m Year ended 31 December 2011 Required Adjusted Value of Nordic Free surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 325 34 39 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 30 30 356 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate is not significant on the adjusted net worth portion of the business.
This is because shareholder assets backing capital requirements are typically invested in highly secure government paper and other short-term instruments.
Expected existing business contributions in 2011 are signicantly higher than in 2010 due to higher one-year swap rates at 31December 2010 relative to those at 31 December 2009 and a higher opening value of in-force.
The positive experience variances were largely caused by profit made on the sale of a private equity investment, higher than expected fee income and increased take-ups of drawdown products.
There were no one-off expense variances.
Operating assumption changes were made to recognise higher expected commission payments, anticipated pricing pressure in the corporate segment, expectations of adverse persistency and adjustments to pricing of the Waiver of Premium business.
The other operating variance was mainly due to modelling renements to deferred tax assets and more accurate valuation of tendered business.
The economic variances were mainly due to the positive effect of market movements on funds under management.
The capital and dividend ows mainly represent dividends, repayment of loans, internal re-classication and capital injections.
Return on MCEV is the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in Swedish krona.
Old Mutual plc 357 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax continued m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted Value of Free Required net Value of Free Required net Retail Europe surplus capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital worth in-force MCEV Opening MCEV 46 32 78 453 531 15 64 79 517 596 New business value 69 1 68 75 7 74 1 73 68 5 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 1 189 1 1 10 11 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 33 33 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 97 2 99 99 97 7 104 104 Experience variances 5 1 415 20 1 19 4 23 Assumption changes 11 11 26 26 Other operating variance 9 9 40 31 18 19 1 3 4 Operating MCEV earnings 25 2 27 39 66 22 10 12 56 44 Economic variances 123 19 22 1 4 3 26 29 Other non-operating variance 26 25 1 5 6 20 20 33 Total MCEV earnings 29 29 53 82 41 26 15 27 12 Closing adjustments 5 1 4 14 10 10 6 16 37 53 Capital and dividend ows 6 6 6 10 3 13 13 Foreign exchange variance 112 14 16 3 3 37 40 Closing MCEV 41 62 103 520 623 46 32 78 453 531 Return on MCEV RoEV % per annum 12.8% 7.9 % m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted net Value of net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience variances 4 1 5 19 4 23 Persistency 2 3 1 1 1 2 Risk 3 3 314 Expenses 3 3 5 5 Other 6 2 4 16 4 20 Assumption changes 1111 26 26 Persistency 99 22 Risk 11 Expenses 4 4 22 22 Other 66 7 7 m Year ended 31 December 2011 Required Adjusted Value of Retail Europe Free surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 11 9 10 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 4 4 358 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate is not significant on the adjusted net worth portion of the business.
Expected existing business contributions in 2011 are higher than in 2010 due to a higher opening asset-base.
Experience variances are mainly due to higher than anticipated profit sharing on participating contracts in Germany, as well as higher than expected fee income.
In addition, there was a one-off expense variance in respect of project costs.
Mortality and morbidity experience continues to be positive across all Retail Europe countries.
Operating assumption changes were made to recognise higher expected fee income in Germany and Poland following sustained favourable fee income experience.
Future profit sharing assumptions for the German business were revised upwards in line with expected new business levels.
Further operating assumption changes were made to recognise positive persistency experience and maintenance expense experience in Switzerland, and to reect the capitalisation of Retail Europe overhead expenses.
The other operating variances are mainly due to improvements in the modelling of disability business in Switzerland and a reduction in the cost of non-hedgeable risk due to lower non-hedgeable risk capital.
The economic variances are mainly due to the positive effect of market movements on funds under management as well as the beneficial impact of lower swap rates across the region.
The capital and dividend ows mainly represent dividends.
Return on MCEV is the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in euro.
Old Mutual plc 359 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax continued m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted Free Required net Value of Free Required net Value of Wealth Management surplus capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital worth In-force MCEV Opening MCEV 163 213 376 1,468 1,844 120 197 317 1,461 1,778 New business value 142 19 123 189 66 171 12 159 208 49 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 1 3 4 22 26 77 14 34 48 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 7 7 14 21 1 1 26 25 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 246 20 226 226 274 30 244 244 Experience variances 62 20 42 33 9 10 7 3 35 38 Assumption changes 42617 10 7 3 96 99 Other operating variance 34 35 1 1 90 2 92 81 11 Operating MCEV earnings 20 59 79 33 112 179 5 184 188 4 Economic variances 46 6 52 153 205 212 14 38 52 Other non-operating variance 2 2 4 2 1 1 164 165 Total MCEV earnings 64 65 129 190 319 182 17 199 14 213 Closing adjustments 184 184 2 186 139 1 140 7 147 Capital and dividend ows 184 184 184 142 5 137 137 Foreign exchange variance 2 2 3 6 3 7 10 Closing MCEV 43 278 321 1,656 1,977 163 213 376 1,468 1,844 Return on MCEV RoEV % per annum 6.1% 0.3 % m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted net Value of net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience variances 42 33 9 3 35 38 Persistency 7 18 11 6 39 45 Risk 314 6 6 Expenses 38 1 37 24 2 22 Other 1313 21 2 23 Assumption changes 617 3 96 99 Persistency 8 8 81 81 Risk 1515 1212 Expenses 4 13 17 66 66 Other 10 7 17 3 39 36 m Year ended 31 December 2011 Required Adjusted Value of Wealth Management Free surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 123 24 27 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 6 6 17 23 360 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate is not significant on the required capital portion of the business.
Adverse expense variances were predominately one-off variances of 38 million relating to software development and restructuring costs.
The other variances are predominantly fee income being higher than expected.
Positive persistency variance is driven by positive experience in International and Continental Europe business.
Positive operating assumption changes were made to other and risk assumptions.
The other assumption change relates to fee income, consistent with positive experience in 2010.
The risk assumption change relates to positive experience in Skandia UK.
Expense and persistency assumptions were strengthened.
The expense assumption change is largely due to changes to reect the new expense allocation review in UK and International, and a new provision to streamline existing expense provisions relating to development projects.
The persistency assumption change is driven by a reduction in persistency to allow for the potential impact of the Retail Distribution Review RDR in the UK offset by increasing persistency assumptions due to positive experience in International.
Economic variances are due to positive market movements, exchange rate movements and tax deductions on income and gains as a result of the current tax position of the UK tax group.
The other non-operating variance is driven by the effect from changes in the United Kingdom corporation tax rate from 28% to 27%.
The capital and dividend ows mainly represent dividends, repayments of loans and capital injections.
Return on MCEV is the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in sterling.
Old Mutual plc 361 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax continued m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted Free Required net Value of Free Required net Value of US Life surplus capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital worth in-force MCEV Opening MCEV 36 462 498 816 318 85 550 465 1,725 1,260 New business value 66 66 28 28 35 4168 14 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 19 10 15 25 3 21 18 45 27 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 80 80 11 257 258 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 81 47 34 34 52 54 2 2 Experience variances 33 23 10 30 40 137 103 34 35 1 Assumption changes 6 6 57 63 30 30 Other operating variance 7 7 8 8 Operating MCEV earnings 43 5 48 1 47 151 94 57 209 266 Economic variances 71 18 53 127 180 181 59 122 556 434 Other non-operating variance Total MCEV earnings 114 13 101 126 227 30 35 65 765 700 84 19 65 33 98 Closing adjustments 151 53 98 144 242 Capital and dividend ows 85 85 85 146 146 146 Foreign exchange variance 119 20 33 13 5 53 48 144 96 Closing MCEV 66 468 534 723 189 36 462 498 816 318 Return on MCEV RoEV % per annum 14.1% 22.7% m Year ended 31 December Year ended 2010 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted net Value of net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience variances 10 30 40 34 35 1 Persistency 438 42 17 20 3 Risk 10 10 1717 Expenses 25 25 17 17 Other 19 2 17 34 72 38 Assumption changes 6 57 63 3030 Persistency 6 58 64 1818 Risk 1 1 1212 Expenses 22 Other m Year ended 31 December 2011 Required Adjusted Value of US Life Free surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 167 18 25 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 62 62 362 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The results for US Life include allowance for Old Mutual Reassurance Ireland Limited OMRe, which provides reinsurance to the United States Life Companies.
The expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate is calculated using the corporate bond spread that is expected to be earned over and above the adjusted risk free reference rate inclusive of the liquidity premium adjustment.
The main reason for the signicantly negative VNB result is due to very low swap yields compressing potential earnings on spread-based annuity business, resulting in significant future losses anticipated on an MCEV basis.
The experience variances were largely caused by positive persistency experience due to higher surrenders of Fixed Indexed Annuity contracts, which make future losses on an MCEV basis.
Expense variances benefited from tight cost controls in this business.
There were no material experience variance items that were one-off in nature.
Operating assumption changes include the increasing of premium persistency assumptions on certain unprofitable Universal Life and Term Assurance products.
The other operating variance was mainly due to modelling changes and error corrections.
The economic variances were mainly due to gains in the underlying investment portfolio and lower swap yields, partially offset by a reduction in the assumed liquidity premium from 100bps to 75bps.
The capital and dividend ows include the payment of dividends to Old Mutual plc.
Return on MCEV was calculated as the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by the absolute value of the opening MCEV in USdollars.
Old Mutual plc 363 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax continued m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted Free Required net Value of Free Required net Value of Bermuda surplus Capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital worth in-force MCEV Opening MCEV 363 363 165 198 342 34 376 425 49 New business value Expected existing business contribution reference rate 339 12 516 4 2 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 30303565 33 33 39 72 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 16 45 29 29 5 4 9 9 Experience variances 18 1 17 2 19 72 72 21 93 Assumption changes 19 19 16 35 36 36 46 82 Other operating variance 32 37 5 52 47 345 345 82 82 Operating MCEV earnings 53 26 27 3 24 420 342 78 59 19 Economic variances 53 53 52 105 102 102 167 269 Other non-operating variance Total MCEV earnings 262655 81 318 342 24 226 250 Closing adjustments 1414 6 8 24 13 37 34 3 Capital and dividend ows Foreign exchange variance 1414 6 8 24 13 37 34 3 Closing MCEV 403 403 116 287 363 363 165 198 Return on MCEV RoEV % per annum 11.4 % 41.0 % m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted net Value of net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience variances 17 2 19 72 21 93 Persistency 15 1 16 52 13 65 Risk Expenses 8 8 10 1 9 Other 6 1 5 10 9 19 Assumption changes 19 16 35 36 46 82 Persistency 16 9 7 65 65 Risk 2 1 1 Expenses 26 26 29 29 Other 5 2 3 36 48 12 m Year ended 31 December 2011 Required Adjusted Value of Bermuda Free surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 2268 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 2424 16 40 364 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate is calculated using the corporate bond spread that is expected to be earned over and above the adjusted risk free reference rate inclusive of the liquidity premium adjustment, while the adjusted net worth component includes interest received from Old Mutual plc.
The experience variances include adverse persistency experience on Variable Annuity contracts and expense losses as a result of higher than anticipated expenditure on projects 4 million and an increased head-count.
Other experience variances include a one-off tax variance of 5 million due to the release of a tax contingency reserve.
There were no other material experience variance items that were one-off in nature.
Operating assumption changes include the strengthening of expense assumptions consistent with 2010 experience and renements to surrender assumptions as a result of the most recent experience investigation.
Economic variances were driven by good equity market performance and gains on the corporate bond portfolio, partially offset by increased Variable Annuity Guarantee costs due to declining interest rates.
Old Mutual plc 365 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted Free Required net Value of Free Required net Value of Total covered business surplus capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital worth in-force MCEV Opening MCEV 416 2,399 2,815 3,212 6,027 358 2,025 2,383 1,800 4,183 New business value 485 226 259 431 172 473 170 303 470 167 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 98998 192 290 7114 121 142 263 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 727 34 174 208 32 6 38 355 393 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 899 276 623 623 813 244 569 569 Experience variances 1 6 5 71 76 54 111 57 120 177 Assumption changes 2 2 98 98 3 22 25 258 283 Other operating variance 125 74 51 7 58 191 301 110 19 129 Operating MCEV earnings 302 148 450 140 590 239 214 453 39 492 Economic variances 224 23 247 521 768 29 93 64 940 1,004 Other non-operating variance 7 25 18 18 39 20 19 168 187 Total MCEV earnings 519 196 715 661 1,376 249 287 536 1,147 1,683 Closing adjustments 428 249 179 291 112 191 87 104 265 161 Capital and dividend ows 468 468 468 189 1 190 190 Foreign exchange variance 40 249 289 291 580 15 85 70 289 359 MCEV of acquired sold business 13 3 16 24 8 Closing MCEV 507 2,844 3,351 4,164 7,515 416 2,399 2,815 3,212 6,027 Return on MCEV RoEV % per annum 9.8% 11.8% m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Adjusted Adjusted net Value of net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience variances 5 71 76 57 120 177 Persistency 757 64 87 72 159 Risk 22 2 20 31 17 48 Expenses 37 5 32 49 13 36 13 11 24 48 78 30 Other Assumption changes 98 98 25 258 283 Persistency 22 53 75 29 210 239 Risk 19 12 31 30 64 94 Expenses 2 44 46 10 190 180 Other 5 13 8 36 78 42 m Year ended 31 December 2011 Required Adjusted Value of Total covered business Free surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 17 73 90 197 287 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 62026 145 171 Return on MCEV for total covered business is calculated as the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in sterling.
366 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C: Other key performance information C1: Value of new business after tax The tables below set out the regional analysis of the value of new business VNB after tax.
New business profitability is measured by both the ratio of the VNB to the present value of new business premiums PVNBP as well as to the annual premium equivalent APE, and shown under PVNBP margin and APE margin below.
APE is calculated as annualised recurring premiums plus 10% of single premiums.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Annualised recurring premiums Long-Term Savings LTS 698 685 Emerging Markets 325 249 Nordic 144 183 Retail Europe 63 62 Wealth Management 166 191 US Life 10 14 Bermuda 708 699 Single premiums Long-Term Savings LTS 7,932 6,257 Emerging Markets 1,611 1,437 Nordic 573 527 Retail Europe 63 53 Wealth Management 5,685 4,240 US Life 824 549 Bermuda 15 8,756 6,821 PVNBP Long-Term Savings LTS 11,266 9,563 Emerging Markets 3,269 2,834 Nordic 1,104 1,150 Retail Europe 513 537 Wealth Management 6,380 5,042 US Life 889 639 Bermuda 15 12,155 10,217 PVNBP capitalisation factors Long-Term Savings LTS 4.8 4.8 Emerging Markets 5.1 5.6 Nordic 3.7 3.4 Retail Europe 7.2 7.8 Wealth Management 4.2 4.2 US Life 6.6 6.6 Bermuda n a n a The PVNBP capitalisation factors are calculated as follows: PVNBP single premiums annualised recurring premiums.
Old Mutual plc 367 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C1: Value of new business after tax continued m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 APE Long-Term Savings LTS 1,491 1,312 Emerging Markets 487 393 Nordic 201 235 Retail Europe 69 67 Wealth Management 734 617 US Life 92 68 Bermuda 1 1,583 1,381 VNB Long-Term Savings LTS 200 153 Emerging Markets 86 65 Nordic 41 44 Retail Europe 7 5 Wealth Management 66 49 US Life 28 14 Bermuda 0 172 167 PVNBP margin Long-Term Savings LTS 1.8% 1.6% Emerging Markets 2.6% 2.3% Nordic 3.7% 3.8% Retail Europe 1.4% 1.0 % Wealth Management 1.0% 1.0% US Life 3.2 % 2.2% Bermuda n a n a 1.4% 1.6% APE margin Long-Term Savings LTS 13% 12% Emerging Markets 18% 16% Nordic 21% 19% Retail Europe 11% 8 % Wealth Management 9% 8% US Life 31 % 20% Bermuda n a n a 11% 12% The US Life VNB is negative when calculated on an MCEV basis, due to the reliance on spread in the pricing basis, and the current low risk free swap curve.
The value of new individual unit trust linked retirement annuities and pension fund asset management business written by the Emerging Markets long-term business is excluded as the profits on this business arise in the asset management business.
The value of new business also excludes premium increases arising from indexation arrangements in respect of existing business, as these are already included in the value of inforce business.
The value of new institutional investment platform pensions business written in Wealth Management is excluded as this is more appropriately classied as unit trust business.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Gross premium excluded from value of new business 2010 2009 Emerging Markets 723 1,658 Wealth Management 304 153 New business premiums not valued have reduced compared to 2009, mainly because single premium new business gures for 2009 include inows relating to in-force business following OMSAs acquisition of Futuregrowth and Acsis Life.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2009 have also been restated to include Namibias contribution to new business premiums not valued 1,625 million excluding Namibia.
368 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C2: Product analysis of new covered premiums m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Emerging Markets Recurring Single Recurring Single Total business 325 1,611 249 1,437 Individual business 284 889 220 716 Savings 69 713 50 539 Protection 70 56 21 Annuity 176 155 Mass foundation cluster 145 114 1 Group business 41 722 29 721 Savings 20 585 13 564 Protection 21 1 16 Annuity 136 157 Previously described as Retail Mass.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Nordic Recurring Single Recurring Single Unit-linked and life assurance 144 573 183 527 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Retail Europe Recurring Single Recurring Single Unit-linked and life assurance 63 63 62 53 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Wealth Management Recurring Single Recurring Single Unit-linked and life assurance 166 5,685 191 4,240 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 US Life Recurring Single Recurring Single Total business 10 824 14 549 Fixed deferred annuity 163 30 Fixed indexed annuity 502 383 Variable annuity Life 10 1 14 13 Immediate annuity 158 123 The table above does not include the contribution from the mutual fund business.
This is detailed in the Business Review section.
Old Mutual plc 369 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C3: Adjustments applied in determining total Group MCEV earnings before tax m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Covered Non-covered Covered Non-covered business business Total Group business business Total Group Analysis of adjusting items MCEV IFRS MCEV MCEV IFRS MCEV Income expense Goodwill impairment and amortisation of non-covered business acquired intangible assets and impact of acquisition accounting 20 20 6565 Economic variances 864 7 857 1,108 10 1,098 Other non-operating variances 17 17 18 18 Acquired divested business 22 22 48 48 Closure of unclaimed share trust Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 4444 4545 Adjusting items relating to US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests 66 1 1 Fair value gains on Group debt instruments 203 203 264 264 Adjusting items 881 202 679 1,126 213 913 Adjusting items from continuing operations 701 202 499 691 213 478 Adjusting items from discontinued operations 180 180 435 435 Total MCEV adjusting items 881 202 679 1,126 213 913 C4: Other movements in IFRS net equity impacting Group MCEV m Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Covered Non-covered Covered Non-covered business business Total Group business business Total Group MCEV IFRS MCEV MCEV IFRS MCEV Fair value gains losses 88 22 Net investment hedge 86 86 41 41 Currency translation differences exchange differences on translating foreign operations 580 448 1,028 359 197 556 Aggregate tax effects of items taken directly to or transferred from equity 1414 1313 Correction to transfers 316 316 Other movements 24 24 8 7 15 Net income recognised directly into equity 580 360 940 351 480 831 Capital and dividend ows for the year 468 322 146 190 145 45 Net sale of treasury shares 28 28 Share buy back Net issues of ordinary share capital by the Company 162 162 22 Acquisition of non-controlling interest in Mutual & Federal 93 93 Exercise of share options 44 33 Change in share based payment reserve 44 1414 Other movements in net equity 112 731 843 161 644 805 Renement arising from the allocation of assets between covered and non-covered business at 31 December 2008.
370 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued C5: Reconciliation of MCEV adjusted net worth to IFRS net asset value for the covered business The table below provides a reconciliation of the MCEV adjusted net worth ANW to the IFRS net asset value NAV for the covered business.
m Long-Term Emerging Retail Wealth At 31 December 2010 Total Savings Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Bermuda IFRS net asset value 5,794 5,088 1,216 1,243 632 1,997 274 432 Adjustment to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis 1,822 2,053 207 851 331 1,078 260 29 Inclusion of Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 389 389 389 Goodwill 1,010 1,010 8 206 198 598 Adjusted net worth attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 3,351 2,414 1,804 186 103 321 534 403 m Long-Term Emerging Retail Wealth At 31 December 2009 Total Savings Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Bermuda IFRS net asset value 6,103 4,848 821 1,222 664 2,141 886 369 Adjustment to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis 2,632 2,238 153 841 382 1,168 388 6 Inclusion of Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 339 339 339 Goodwill 995 995 8 186 204 597 Adjusted net worth attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 2,815 1,954 1,305 195 78 376 498 363 IFRS net asset value is after elimination of inter-company loans.
The adjustment to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis includes the following: Q The excess of the IFRS amount of the deferred acquisition cost DAC and value of business acquired VOBA assets over the statutory levels included in the VIF.
Q When projecting future profits on a statutory basis, the VIF includes the shareholders value of unrealised capital gains.
To the extent that assets in IFRS are valued at market and the market value is higher than the statutory book value, these profits have already been taken into account in the IFRS equity.
Q For the US Life business, the reversal of the IFRS impairment for discontinued operations which is included in the IFRS net asset value, as this is not recognised on a statutory solvency basis.
Old Mutual plc 371 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued D: Other income statement notes D1: Drivers of new business value for covered business % PVNBP Margin Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Long-Term Savings 2010 2009 Margin at the end of comparative period 1.6 1.5 Change in volume 0.1 0.1 Change in product mix 0.2 Change in country mix Change in operating assumptions 0.1 0.1 Change in economic assumptions 0.1 Change in tax regulation 0.1 Exchange rate movements 0.1 Margin at the end of the period 1.8 1.6 Emerging Markets Margin at the end of comparative period 2.3 2.2 Change in volume 0.1 0.1 Change in product mix 0.4 0.2 Change in country mix Change in operating assumptions 0.1 0.4 Change in economic assumptions 0.1 Margin at the end of the period 2.6 2.3 Nordic Margin at the end of comparative period 3.8 3.3 Change in volume 0.1 0.1 Change in product mix 0.6 Change in country mix Change in operating assumptions 0.4 0.4 Change in economic assumptions 0.2 0.2 Margin at the end of the period 3.7 3.8 Retail Europe Margin at the end of comparative period 1.0 1.8 Change in volume 1.6 2.1 Change in product mix 0.2 0.8 Change in country mix 0.1 Change in operating assumptions 0.9 0.5 Change in economic assumptions 0.1 0.3 Margin at the end of the period 1.4 1.0 Wealth Management Margin at the end of comparative period 1.0 1.2 Change in volume 0.1 0.2 Change in product mix 0.1 Change in country mix Change in operating assumptions 0.2 0.2 Change in economic assumptions Change in tax regulation 0.2 Margin at the end of the period 1.0 1.0 372 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued D1: Drivers of new business value for covered business continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 US Life Margin at the end of comparative period 2.2 0.9 Change in volume 0.1 Change in product mix 0.9 1.5 Change in country mix Change in operating assumptions 0.6 Change in economic assumptions 3.8 1.6 Margin at the end of the period 3.2 2.2 Total covered business Margin at the end of comparative period 1.6 0.8 Change in volume 0.1 0.8 Change in product mix 0.1 Change in country mix Change in operating assumptions 0.1 0.1 Change in economic assumptions 0.4 Change in tax regulation 0.1 Exchange rate movements 0.1 0.2 Margin at the end of the period 1.4 1.6 The PVNBP margin changes are calculated in sterling.
The PVNBP margin changes are calculated in rand.
The PVNBP margin changes are calculated in krona.
The PVNBP margin changes are calculated in euro.
The PVNBP margin changes are calculated in dollars.
Old Mutual plc 373 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued E1: Sensitivity tests The tables below show the sensitivity of the MCEV, value of in-force business at 31 December 2010 and the value of new business for the year ended 31 December 2010 to changes in key assumptions.
For each sensitivity illustrated all other assumptions have been left unchanged except where they are directly affected by the revised conditions.
Sensitivity scenarios therefore include consistent changes in cash ows directly affected by the changed assumption s, for example future bonus participation in changed economic scenarios.
In some jurisdictions the reserving basis that underlies shareholder distributable cash ows is dynamic, and in theory some sensitivities could change not only future experience but also reserving levels.
Modelling of dynamic reserves is extremely complex and the effect on value is secondorder.
Therefore, in performing the sensitivities, reserving bases have been kept constant for non-linked business including non-linked reserves for linked business whilst only varying future experience assumptions with similar considerations applying to required capital.
However, the sensitivities for South Africa in respect of an increase decrease of all pretax investment and economic assumptions, an increase decrease in equity and property market values and increases in equity, property and swaption implied volatilities allow for the change in the time value of financial options and guarantees that form part of the IGR.
The sensitivities for an increase decrease in all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately are calculated in line with a parallel shift in risk free reference spot rates rather than risk free reference forward rates.
However, the 1% reduction is limited so that it does not lead to negative risk free reference rates.
The equity and property sensitivities make allowance for rebalancing of asset portfolios.
VNB sensitivities assume that the scenario arises immediately after point of sale of the contract.
Therefore no allowance is made for the ability to re-price any contracts in the sensitivity scenarios, apart from the mortality sensitivities for the South African business where allowance is made for changes in the pricing basis for products with reviewable premiums.
374 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Long-Term Savings LTS m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 7,417 5,003 200 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 7,474 5,060 204 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 7,289 4,887 185 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 7,553 5,125 216 Recognising the present value of an additional 10bps of liquidity spreads assumed on corporate bonds over the lifetime of the liabilities, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 7,425 5,011 202 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 7,736 5,274 208 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 7,107 4,741 193 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 7,437 5,003 200 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 7,395 4,981 200 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 7,408 4,994 200 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 7,606 5,193 238 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 7,653 5,239 220 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 7,536 5,122 212 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 7,392 4,979 199 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 185 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 219 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 7,462 5,049 203 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 7,365 4,952 196 Old Mutual plc 375 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Emerging Markets m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 3,313 1,509 86 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 3,366 1,562 90 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 3,285 1,479 80 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 3,342 1,540 91 Recognising the present value of an additional 10bps of liquidity spreads assumed on corporate bonds over the lifetime of the liabilities, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 3,321 1,517 88 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 3,446 1,594 86 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 3,180 1,422 86 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 3,333 1,509 86 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 3,292 1,488 86 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 3,306 1,502 86 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 3,369 1,566 105 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 3,446 1,641 98 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 3,414 1,609 97 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 3,290 1,487 85 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 79 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 100 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 3,330 1,526 87 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 3,290 1,486 85 No impact on with-profit annuities as the mortality risk is borne by policyholders.
376 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Nordic m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 1,504 1,318 41 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 1,504 1,318 41 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 1,480 1,294 41 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 1,532 1,346 42 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 1,610 1,424 45 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 1,398 1,213 37 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 1,504 1,318 41 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 1,504 1,318 41 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 1,504 1,318 41 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 1,544 1,358 49 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 1,545 1,360 43 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 1,506 1,320 41 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 1,502 1,316 41 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 40 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 41 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 1,522 1,337 43 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 1,504 1,318 41 Old Mutual plc 377 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Retail Europe m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 623 520 7 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 626 523 7 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 606 505 5 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 637 533 10 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 636 533 7 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 610 508 7 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 623 520 7 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 623 520 7 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 621 518 7 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 638 535 9 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 648 546 9 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 627 525 8 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 623 520 7 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 6 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 8 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 624 521 6 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 615 513 7 378 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Wealth Management m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 1,977 1,656 66 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 1,978 1,657 66 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 1,918 1,609 59 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 2,042 1,706 73 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 2,044 1,723 70 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 1,919 1,598 63 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 1,977 1,656 66 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 1,976 1,655 66 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 1,977 1,656 66 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 2,055 1,734 75 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 2,014 1,692 70 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 1,989 1,668 66 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 1,977 1,656 66 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 60 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 70 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 1,986 1,665 67 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 1,956 1,635 63 Old Mutual plc 379 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued US Life m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 189 723 28 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 185 719 28 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 380 914 5 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 18 552 60 Recognising the present value of an additional 10bps of liquidity spreads assumed on corporate bonds over the lifetime of the liabilities, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 145 679 26 Recognising the present value of an additional 50% of liquidity spreads assumed on corporate bonds over the lifetime of the liabilities, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 34 568 18 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 189 723 28 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 189 723 28 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 80 454 28 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 270 804 53 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 137 671 27 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 173 707 28 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 169 703 27 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 215 749 28 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 31 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 30 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 187 721 28 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 209 743 30 At 31 December 2010 the size of the base liquidity premium adjustment for US Life business of 75bps is greater than the base liquidity premium adjustment for OMSAs Retail Afuent Immediate Annuity business of 45bps.
Therefore in addition to the 10bps liquidity spread sensitivity that is also shown for Emerging Markets, a sensitivity was calculated to illustrate the impact of an additional 50% of liquidity spreads for US Life business.
380 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Bermuda m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 287 116 n a Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 289 114 n a Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 350 126 n a Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 226 105 n a Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 339 110 n a Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 229 123 n a 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 298 105 n a 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 190 120 n a 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 285 118 n a Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 278 107 n a Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 297 106 n a Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 287 115 n a Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 287 116 n a For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a n a Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a n a Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 290 113 n a Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 281 122 n a Old Mutual plc 381 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Total covered business Total covered business includes the MCEV contribution from the US Life and Bermuda business segments.
m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2010 MCEV business business Central assumptions 7,515 4,164 172 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 7,578 4,227 176 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 7,259 3,847 180 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 7,761 4,468 156 Recognising the present value of an additional 10bps of liquidity spreads assumed on corporate bonds over the lifetime of the liabilities, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 7,567 4,216 176 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 7,886 4,441 180 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 7,147 3,895 165 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 7,815 4,444 172 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 7,396 4,138 172 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 7,423 4,072 147 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 7,747 4,415 211 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 7,777 4,426 192 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 7,654 4,304 185 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 7,464 4,114 171 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 154 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 189 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 7,565 4,215 175 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 7,437 4,087 166 382 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2010 continued m Value of in-force Value of new At 31 December 2009 MCEV business business Central assumptions 6,027 3,212 167 Effect of: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement 6,076 3,262 172 Increasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 5,746 2,865 161 Decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions by 1%, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 6,346 3,589 167 Recognising the present value of an additional 10bps of liquidity spreads assumed on corporate bonds over the lifetime of the liabilities, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 6,080 3,266 169 Equity and property market value increasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 6,401 3,447 179 Equity and property market value decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 5,671 2,996 157 50bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 6,360 3,530 167 25% multiplicative increase in equity and property implied volatilities 5,929 3,190 167 25% multiplicative increase in swaption implied volatilities 5,906 3,092 161 Voluntary discontinuance rates decreasing by 10% 6,211 3,492 209 Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 6,269 3,454 188 Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 6,166 3,351 185 Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges 5,989 3,175 167 For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges n a n a 150 Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of reporting period n a n a 153 Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversication benets between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 6,160 3,345 173 Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level which is targeted by an internal economic capital model 5,932 3,118 161 Old Mutual plc 383 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
