GLOSSARY We have written this glossary to help readers understand certain Capital adequacy requirement CAR words and jargon used in our industry.
In line with our aim of The level of capital required by Old Mutual Life Assurance writing this report in plain English, the denitions are not precise Company South Africa Limited to support its insurance or technical: they should not be used as the basis for making business.
It is mostly driven by the capital required to absorb investment or other decisions.
investment risk and generally exceeds the level of capital required by the national regulator called the Statutory Capital A technical glossary of the financial terms can be found on our Adequacy Requirement.
com Carbon Disclosure Project Actuary The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP is an independent Someone who uses mathematics in particular, probability to not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database of provide solutions to insurance-related problems.
Actuarial primary corporate climate change information in the world.
techniques are used to design new insurance products and to Thousands of organisations from across the worlds major assess the profitability of new and existing business.
economies measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions, water use and climate-change strategies through Adjusted net worth ANW CDP.
Corporations are rated and the information helps investors, Represents the market value of the net shareholders assets corporations and regulators to make more informed decisions.
held in respect of the covered business and forms part of the embedded value of a life company.
Correlation Correlation is a statistical measurement of the relationship Afliate between two variables.
Possible correlations range from 1 to -1.
An investment rm specialising in offering specic A zero correlation indicates that there is no relationship between services to a select number of individuals term interchangeable the variables.
A correlation of -1 indicates a perfect negative with boutique.
correlation, meaning that as one variable goes up, the other goes down.
A correlation of 1 indicates a perfect positive Annual premium equivalent APE correlation, meaning that both variables move in the same A standardised measure of the volume of new life business direction together.
It is calculated as the sum of annualised new recurring premiums and 10% of the new single premiums written in an Covered business annual reporting period.
It gives a broadly comparable measure A concept dened in the Market Consistent Embedded Value across companies to allow for differences between regular and MCEV principles and guidelines.
It refers to long-term business, single premium business.
which includes traditional life insurance, long-term healthcare and accident insurances, savings, pensions and annuities.
Annuity A regular payment from an insurance company made for an Deferred acquisition costs DAC agreed period of time usually up to the death of the recipient in A method of accounting whereby the acquisition costs on return for either a cash lump sum or a series of premiums which long-term business eg sales commissions are recognised over the policyholder has saved during their working lifetime.
the life of the contracts rather than up front at the time of sale.
The costs are deferred on the balance sheet as an asset and Asset management amortised over the contract life.
An investment management service provided by financial institutions on behalf of their customers.
Deferred annuity An annuity due to be paid from a future date or when the Assumptions policyholder reaches a specified age.
A deferred annuity may be Variables applied to data used to project expected outcomes.
In funded by the policyholder by payment of a series of regular the life insurance business, this might include assumptions on contributions or by a capital sum.
average life expectancy and policy surrender rates.
Earnings per share EPS Bancassurance Earnings per Share EPS is calculated as post-tax adjusted An arrangement whereby banks and building societies sell life, operating profit divided by the adjusted weighted average pension and savings products on behalf of other financial number of shares WANS held by our investors.
indicator of our profitability that measures how much we earn for each share held.
Boutique A small investment rm specialising in offering specic Economic capital services to a select number of individuals term interchangeable Market value of assets minus fair value of liabilities.
practice as a risk-adjusted capital measure: specically, the amount of capital required to meet an explicit solvency constraint eg a certain probability of ruin.
392 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information GLOSSARY Embedded value EV Insurance Life insurance contracts are usually long term and may involve A contract taken out with an insurer to give financial protection complex payment ows.
This means it is difficult to measure the against loss from a perceived risk.
The person taking out the value of a life insurance business or how much income it is likely insurance is called the insured.
Payments for the policy are to generate over time.
EV is a way of indicating what the called premiums.
underlying business is worth, based on the total of the net assets already invested in the business and the profits expected to International financial reporting standards IFRS emerge in thefuture.
Accounting regulations that all publicly listed companies in the EU are required to use.
They are designed to ensure companies Experience variance prepare their accounts in a similar way so that there is a In calculating embedded value of life business, it is necessary to common basis for comparison.
make assumptions about items such as lapses or surrenders, Key risk indicator KRI mortality experience, etc.
In any period the actual result for these items will differ from the assumed experience: this is known as A metric that is indicative of the trend of risk exposures for a the experiencevariance.
particular risk or group of risks.
Financial Groups Directive FGD Lapses withdrawals surrenders A financial regime applying to EU-based companies whose The voluntary termination of a policy by a policyholder before the activities span both the banking and investment sectors and the maturity date.
It lays down requirements for the Companys capital position and is intended to improve the stability of the Life insurance financial system, thereby protecting customers.
An insurance contract which promises the payment of an agreed sum of money upon the death of the insured within a specified FGD surplus period of time.
Also known as life assurance.
This represents the amount of capital in the Company which is surplus to the statutory solvency requirement for insurance Liquidity premium groups as laid down by the Financial Groups Directive.
A liquidity premium can be viewed as compensation for the lower liquidity of corporate bonds compared to government debt Financial Services Authority FSA and for the risk that the market value of bonds will fall prior to The regulator of financial services in the United Kingdom.
maturity due to increasing credit spreads.
Financial Services Board FSB Long-term business The regulator of financial services in South Africa.
A term used by the Group to describe its life, health and pensions business and includes both covered and non-covered Funds under management FUM business.
The term is broadly used throughout the industry, for The total value at market prices of funds managed by a company example it is a UK regulatory expression broadly equivalent to life on behalf of shareholders and customers.
General insurance property and casualty insurance Long-term investment return LTIR Short-term Insurance The long-term return that Old Mutual assumes can realistically Non-life insurance mainly concerned with protecting the be earned on its investible shareholder assets when calculating policyholder from loss or damage caused by specic risks.
Long-term investment return rates are Examples include motor, contents and buildings insurance.
reviewed annually and reect the returns expected on the Property insurance covers loss or damage through, for example, chosen asset classes.
Casualty insurance covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to other people or damage to Loss data theirproperty.
Data regarding direct losses experienced by the organisation as a result of events caused by a failure of people, process, In-force systems and or external events.
An insurance policy is said to be in-force from its start date until Management action plan the date it is terminated.
An action or actions developed by management that are usually Independent financial adviser IFA triggered by one or more of the following: In the UK an IFA is a person or organisation authorised to give advice on financial matters and to sell the products of all Q Risk exposure greater than risk appetite Q Control breakdowns or weaknesses financial services providers.
IFAs are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Q Key risk indicator threshold breaches Q Loss events Q Audit findings Old Mutual plc 393 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GLOSSARY Market consistent embedded value MCEV Pension The standard of reporting for life insurance companies.
A regular payment received by an individual during their It provides a common set of principles and guidelines for use retirement until their death.
A pension is usually bought through in calculating embedded value.
MCEV attempts to measure the payment of regular contributions during the individuals the value of business in-force based on a set of best estimate working lifetime.
assumptions, allowing for the impact of uncertainty in future investment returns.
It is designed to provide an accurate Platform reection of the performance of long-term savings business Online services used by intermediaries and consumers to view and a method of comparing companies on a consistent basis.
and administer their investment portfolios.
Platforms provide facilities for buying and selling investments including Individual Maturity Savings Accounts ISAs, Self-Invested Personal Pensions The date that an insurance policy or other financial contract SIPPs and life insurance and for viewing an individuals entire portfolio to assess asset allocation and risk exposure.
nishes or matures and the benefit becomes payable.
Minority interests Premium A percentage of ownership in a company that is significant, but The payment a policyholder makes in return for insurance cover.
does not give the owner the ability to control the company.
In Asingle-premium contract involves a single lump sum payment accounting, includes only the dividends from a minority interest made at the start of the contract.
Under a regular-premium on a balance sheet, unless the owner has enough ownership to contract the policyholder agrees at the start to make regular exert inuence but not outright control over the companys payments throughout the term of the contract.
In that case, one includes both dividends and ordinary income on the balance sheet.
Probability distribution A mathematical description of a range of possible values for Mutual fund unit trust a certain variable, identifying the likelihood of each possible Fund of shares, bonds and other assets held by a manager for value occurring.
the benefit of investors who buy units in the fund, effectively pooling their money with that of other investors.
It enables Quantitative impact studies QIS investors to achieve a more diversied portfolio than they might The QIS exercises test the financial impact and suitability have done by making an individual investment.
of proposed Solvency II requirements on rms before the implementation of the regulations.
Net client cash ow NCCF The difference between money received from customers Return on equity RoE egpremiums, deposits and investments and money given back A measure calculated by dividing profit after tax by the average to customers eg claims, surrenders, maturities during the period.
amount of equity in the business.
Equity indicates how much capital is tied up in the business.
Net risk also known as Residual Risk Risk A net risk is dened as the result of an assessment of the potential impact and likelihood of a risk after taking account of The threat of an event that will limit the organisations ability to the design adequacy and operating effectiveness of the controls achieve its business objectives.
Risk is often expressed in terms put in place to manage the risk.
of a combination of the consequences of an event or a change in circumstances and the associated likelihood of occurrence.
Non-profit policy Insurance cover guaranteeing certain benets, but where the Risk adjusted performance measures policyholder bears no investment risk and does not gain or A metric that measures returns based on the quantum of risk loseif returns differ from expectations.
Pure risk business such taken to generate those returns.
We use it to level the playing elds as annuities and health insurance is normally written on a between different business units all competing for the same capital.
Risk appetite Open-architecture The level of risk an organisation is willing to take in the pursuit Where a company offers investment products from a range of of profit.
other companies in addition to its own products.
The advantage for customers is that it gives them a wider choice of funds to Risk assessment invest in and access to a larger pool of money management This is a forward-looking and subjective process whereby risks professionals.
are identied and exposure to risk is assessed or measured in the context of the business objectives.
There are typically two Operational risk scenarios aspects to the assessment of risk, one being the likelihood of Foreseeable, hypothetical events relating to failure of people, risk occurring and the second being the impact of the risk.
processes, systems and or external events that potentially could have a significant impact on an organisations risk prole or capital.
394 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information GLOSSARY Risk-based capital Statistical distribution Risk-based capital is the minimum amount of capital that an An arrangement of values of a variable showing their observed organisation needs to support its overall business operations.
or theoretical frequency of occurrence, eg frequency distribution Risk-based capital is used to set capital requirements a distribution of observed frequencies of occurrence of the considering the nature, scale and complexity of the organisation.
Risk categorisation Sum assured A process for classifying risks possessing common qualities or The lump sum benefit payable under an insurance policy or quantities.
Risk categorisation is used to collate information in contract in circumstances which are dened within the policy: a concise prole.
eg the amount payable on the death of the policyholder.
Risk exposure Technical provisions Means the capital required to meet the businesss current Amounts set aside on the basis of actuarial calculations to meet exposure to risk.
forecast future obligations to policyholders.
Risk identication Underwriting profit general insurance The qualitative determination of risks that are material, ie those A generally accepted non-life insurance term, also referred to as that potentially can impact the organisations achievement underwriting result, representing earned premiums minus the of its financial and or strategic objectives.
cost of claims and operating expenses.
It indicates whether premiums cover claims and expenses or not.
Risk management framework Unit-linked policy A set of components that provide the foundations and organisational arrangements for designing, implementing, A type of long-term savings plan where premiums are used to monitoring, reviewing and continually improving risk buy units in an investment fund, such as a unit trust, and the management processes throughout the organisation.
benets will be linked to the value of the underlying units rather than being xed or guaranteed at the start of the plan.
Risk policies Policies that set out the minimum, mandatory requirements that Value of in-force business VIF businesses must follow to mitigate key Group risks.
Part of the embedded value of a life insurance company.
It represents the discounted value of the profits expected to arise Risk prole from the in-force business.
VIF is calculated using a set of actuarial, economic and operational assumptions.
The entire portfolio of risks organised by risk category that are found within a particular organisation.
Value of new business VNB Risk quantication The discounted value of the future profits expected to arise from Attaching a probability or impact to the happening of a negative all new business sold during a reporting period.
VNB is calculated by using actuarial assumptions.
If it is certain that an event cannot occur, it is given a probability of 0: if it is certain that it will occur, it is given a With-profit probability of 1.
Risks are assigned a probability between 0 and 1.
A type of investment policy in which extra amounts bonuses Scenario may be added to the sum assured to reect profits earned during the course of the contract.
Regular bonuses are usually A predicted sequence of events.
added each year and, once declared, are usually guaranteed.
Scenario analysis A final or terminal bonus may be added when the policy Scenario analysis is a process of analysing possible future becomes payable.
events by considering possible outcomes scenarios.
Wrap account Solvency II An account in which a broker or fund manager executes investment decisions on behalf of a client in exchange for a fee.
Solvency II is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy These decisions might include shareholdings, investment funds, regime for the European insurance industry.
It aims to pensions and life insurance contracts.
establish a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards that will replace the current Wrap platform solvency requirements.
An investment platform which enables investment funds, Solvency Capital Requirement SCR pensions, direct equity holdings and some life insurance contracts to be held in the same administrative account rather The SCR is the capital required to ensure that the re insurance than as separate holdings.
company will be able to meet its obligations over the next 12 months with a probability of at least 99.5%.
Standard formula A non-entity-specic risk-based mathematical formula used by insurers to calculate their Solvency Capital Requirement under Solvency II, if the company is not using an internal model.
Old Mutual plc 395 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 NOTES 396 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Forward-looking statements Acknowledgements This Report contains certain forward-looking statements with Designed and produced by Merchant www.
co. uk respect to Old Mutual plcs and its subsidiaries plans and Printed by The Colourhouse expectations relating to their financial condition, performance and results.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve This Report has been printed on Symbol Freelife Satin and risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and Arcoprint they are both elemental chlorine free and are certied circumstances that are beyond Old Mutual plcs control, including, according to the requirements of the Forest Stewardship Council among other things, UK domestic and general economic and FSC.
The Symbol Freelife has a high content of recycled business conditions, market-related risks such as uctuations material guaranteed 25%.
Both products are completely in interest rates and exchange rates, policies and actions of biodegradable and recyclable.
This year we have reduced the regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, ination, number of printed copies of this Report, saving a total of three deation, the timing and impact of other uncertainties or of future tonnes of paper.
acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and regulations in territories This Report is printed by an FSC, ISO 14001, and carbon neutral where Old Mutual plc or its subsidiaries operate.
certied printer using vegetable oil based inks.
All processes in the production of this Report are on one site.
As a result, Old Mutual plcs or its subsidiaries actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans and expectations set forth in such forward-looking statements.
Old Mutual plc undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Report or any other forward-looking statements that it may make.
Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No.
3591559 and as an external company in each of South Africa No.
E1 99 Registered Ofce: 5th Floor Old Mutual Place 2 Lambeth Hill London EC4V 4GG www.
