NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 30 September 2010 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 with company number 2336032.
The address of the registered office is given on page 42.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on pages 14 to 17.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED REPORTING STANDARDS In the preparation of these financial statements reporting standards being applied for the first time are: International Financial Reporting Standard 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 : The revisions to International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 revised : Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of cancellations and vesting conditions: and Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosure in respect of extended disclosures.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 8, the disclosures on operating segments given in note 7 are presented on a different basis from in previous years and certain disclosures have been changed.
The segments reported and their results, however, remain as previously disclosed under IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
As a result of the adoption of IAS 1 revised, the format of certain disclosures made in the financial statements and notes differs from previous years.
Comparative figures have been reanalysed on a consistent basis.
The adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2 has had no material impact on the accounting of the Group.
The amendment to IFRS 7 has mandated certain new disclosures in respect of the Groups financial instruments which are included in the financial statements for the first time.
None of these accounting changes has any effect on the results of the Group for the current or preceding period, its balance sheets or its cash flows.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following International Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement: and IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods, other than IFRS 9, will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The adoption of IFRS 9, as currently in issue, would not be anticipated to have a material impact on the accounting of the Group although the International Accounting Standard Board IASB has announced its intention to expand this Standard in such a way that would require changes to the valuation and income recognition methods relating to the Groups Loans to Customers, Borrowings and derivative assets and liabilities.
This Standard is intended to come into force for the financial year ending 30 September 2014, if the Standard is endorsed by the European Union.
The European Union has, however, declined to consider the endorsement of IFRS 9 until a complete version is issued by the IASB.
The Group has yet to conduct a full assessment of its potential impact, pending further information on endorsement from the European Union.
Other Standards and interpretations in issue but not effective do not address matters relevant to the Groups accounting and reporting.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 49
