Independent auditors report To the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Paragon Group Opinion on financial statements of Companies PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated In our opinion: statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state flow statements, the consolidated and company statements of of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at movements in equity and the related notes 1 to 64.
The financial 30 September 2010 and of the Groups profit for the year reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is then ended: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the group financial statements have been properly prepared IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: company financial statements, the Companies Act 2006. the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, European Union and as applied in accordance with the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state the financial statements have been prepared in accordance to the Companys members those matters we are required to with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume IAS Regulation.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained in note 3 to the financial statements, the Group in As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require as issued by the IASB.
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Scope of the audit of the financial statements In our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from has been properly prepared in accordance with the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Companies Act 2006: and includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are the information given in the Directors Report for the financial appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys year for which the financial statements are prepared is circumstances and have been consistently applied and consistent with the financial statements.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
34 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
