26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors took into account the Companys investment objective, its risk management policies see note 19, the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, the overdraft which can be used for both long-term and short-term funding requirements, the liquidity of the investments which could be used to repay the overdraft in the event that the facility could not be renewed or replaced, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities, including the 30 million debenture, and ongoing expenses.
AGM Shareholders will find on pages 54 to 57 the notice of the forthcoming AGM of the Company to be held on 12 July 2010 at 12 noon, an explanation of which can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 5.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Corporate Governance Principles The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
In March 2009, the fourth edition of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code was published.
The Financial Reporting Council have confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide would meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules relating to additional items to be included in the annual financial report.
Copies of the AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found on the AICs website at www.
The purpose of the AIC Code is to provide boards with a framework of best practice for the governance of investment companies including investment trusts.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide provides confidence to shareholders, directors and regulators.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, save in respect of those matters explained below under the relevant sections.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company, which is an externally managed investment company.
During the year under review, the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and, where appropriate, the terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee were reviewed and updated to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys corporate governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
This statement describes how the principles of the AIC Code and Guide have been complied with in the affairs of the Company.
Any reference to the AIC Code in this statement includes references to the AIC Guide.
Directors The Directors believe that throughout the period under review they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and, therefore section one of the Combined Code, save in respect of those matters explained below under the relevant sections.
