28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The appointment and ongoing assessment and review of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary makes a significant contribution to the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board, and the smooth running of the Company.
To fulfil the role, the Company Secretary keeps up-to-date with relevant legal, statutory and regulatory requirements and is also able to provide impartial advice and support to the Directors.
The Company Secretary also acts as a primary point of contact for institutional and other shareholders, especially with regard to matters of corporate governance.
Board Responsibilities The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company taking into consideration the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term: the need to foster the Companys business relationships with its Manager and advisers: the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment: the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct: and the need to act fairly as between shareholders of the Company.
In order to promote the success of the Company, the Board directs and supervises its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule of matters is reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
It is available at the AGM, at the Registered Office of the Company and on the Companys website.
The main responsibilities of the Board include: setting policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: approving accounting and dividend policies: managing the capital structure: setting long-term objectives and strategy: assessing risk: reviewing investment performance: approving loans and borrowing: approving recommendations presented by the Companys respective Board Committees: controlling risks: and the ongoing assessment of the Manager.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, fact sheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board as a whole undertakes periodically the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by remuneration and nomination committees, having agreed that separate remunerations and nomination committee are not appropriate for a company of this size and nature.
There is currently an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 5,000, having first consulted with the Chairman.
The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee is Bill Alexander.
The Management Engagement Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM, the Registered Office of the Company and the Companys website.
The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager and Company Secretary.
A statement of IAMLs responsibilities as Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary of the Company and the assessment of the Manager and Company Secretary by the Management Engagement Committee can be found on page 23.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All the Directors are considered to have an excellent attendance record at scheduled Board and Committee Meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
In addition, Directors also attended a number of ad-hoc meetings as required between scheduled meetings.
