30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 33.
The Independent Auditors Report appears on pages 36 and 37.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is composed of Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Antony Hardy.
Audit Committee members consider that collectively they are appropriately experienced to fulfil the role required.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed annually and clearly define its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, are available for inspection at the AGM, at the Registered Office of the Company and on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to approve the contents of the draft annual and half-yearly financial reports to shareholders and to review the Companys accounting policies.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services of all the service providers to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee considers the likelihood of a withdrawal of the Auditors from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditor.
At each meeting, representatives of the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance teams are present.
Representatives of Deloitte LLP, the Companys Auditors, attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual financial report is reviewed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to this annual financial report.
The Audit Committee reviewed its effectiveness during the year.
The review was carried out internally as part of the Board Committee and Directors performance appraisal process a report on which can be found on page 29.
Internal Financial and Non-Financial Controls The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to adhere to the Companys Investment Policy, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
There are no significant failings or weaknesses that have occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2010 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
The Board meets regularly, at least four times a year, and reviews financial reports and performance against revenue forecasts, stock market indices and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance teams of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced on the internal controls and procedures in place for custodial, company secretarial, investment management and accounting activities, and these are reviewed annually by the Board.
The Directors consider that the Companys procedures enable it to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Internal Audit Function The Directors have reviewed the need for the Company to establish an internal audit function but, in view of the extent of the Managers executive responsibilities and, given that the Manager has an internal audit function, consider that such a function is not necessary for the Company.
