PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 Auditors Non-audit Services The Companys Auditors, Deloitte LLP, provided non-audit services to the Company in relation to compliance with the debenture covenant, which amounted to 4,000 2009: 3,000 excluding VAT.
The Directors do not consider that the provision of these services impaired the Auditors independence during the financial year ended 31 March 2010.
It is the Companys policy not to seek substantial non-audit services from its Auditors.
The scope for non-audit services is reviewed by the Audit Committee and approved prior to the Auditors engagement.
In particular, the Audit Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the Auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit service and whether there are appropriate safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the Auditors.
Audit Engagement Partner Deloitte LLP, as the Companys Auditors, are responsible for establishing policies and procedures to monitor the length of time that the Companys audit engagement partner serves as a member of the Companys audit engagement team.
Where the audit engagement partner has a long association with the Companys audit, Deloitte LLP shall assess the threats to his her objectivity and independence and shall apply safeguards to reduce the threats to an acceptable level.
One of these safeguards relates to the rotation of the Companys audit engagement partner every five years.
Any audit engagement partner who has acted for the Company for a period of five years, shall not subsequently participate in the Companys audit engagement until a further period of five years has elapsed.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the publication of interim management statements, monthly factsheets and information on the daily calculation of the NAV of the Companys ordinary shares, which is published via the London Stock Exchange and the Companys website.
A presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board, Chairman of the Company and the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and the notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card, via the Companys website or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 13.
At other times the Company responds to queries from shareholders on a range of issues.
There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual financial results.
All meetings between the Manager and institutional shareholders are reported to the Board.
Shareholders can visit the Companys website in order to contact the Directors, Manager and Company Secretary, access copies of annual and half-yearly financial reports: interim management statements: shareholder circulars: Company factsheets: Stock Exchange announcements: schedule of matters reserved for the Board: terms of reference of Board Committees: Directors letters of appointment: the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
Institutional Voting The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support
