PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 AUDIT MANAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED Bill Alexander 5 5 2 2 1 1 Sir Martyn Arbib 5 5 Vivian Bazalgette 5 5 2 2 1 1 Antony Hardy 5 5 2 2 1 1 Bob Yerbury 5 4 Appointment, Re-election and Tenure of Directors Directors are selected and appointed by the Board as a whole functioning as a Nomination Committee.
There is no separate Nomination Committee as the Board is considered small for the purposes of the Code.
The Directors are therefore responsible for reviewing the size, structure and skills of the Board and considering any necessary changes or new appointments.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
The Board has formulated a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of new Directors to the Board.
To date the Board has not used an executive search consultancy or open advertising when seeking new candidates for appointment as the Directors have considered that the candidates found from sources within the Company and through its advisers have been of a sufficiently high quality.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company, can be found on the Companys website and will be available at the AGM.
The Articles of Association require that each Director shall retire at an AGM at least every three years after appointment or as the case may be last reappointment, and may offer themselves for re-election.
No Director serves a term of more than three years before re-election.
Vivian Bazalgette was elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2007 and will therefore retire and offer himself for re-election at the AGM in 2010.
A Directors normal tenure of office will be for three terms of three years, except that the Board may determine otherwise if it is considered that the continued participation on the Board of an individual Director is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
If this is the case then a long serving Director will stand for re-election annually at the Companys AGM.
Due to their length of service, Sir Martyn Arbib and Antony Hardy will seek reelection annually.
In accordance with the AIC code, Bob Yerbury is not considered independent by virtue of his employment by the Manager.
He will, therefore, stand for re-election annually.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders their support for resolutions 2 through to 5 relating to the Directors seeking re-election.
The Articles of Association will be available at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office address of the Company.
Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration on a regular basis.
Details of the Companys policy on Directors remuneration and of payments to Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Company has in place a system of performance evaluation which is undertaken by the Board annually.
Since the year end, the Directors have undergone an appraisal process to evaluate the performance of the Board as a whole, the respective Committees of the Board and of individual Directors.
The results of the appraisal process were satisfactory and the Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and responsibilities.
