PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 Fair Value of Hierarchy Disclosures Nearly all of the Companys portfolio of investments are in the Level 1 category as defined in FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is applicable for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The three levels set out in FRS 29 follow.
Level 1 fair value based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
Level 2 fair values based on valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices within Level 1.
Level 3 fair values based on valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
Categorisation within the hierarchy is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of each relevant asset liability.
The valuation techniques used by the Company are explained in the accounting policies note.
The equity investments are deemed to be Level 1 and any fixed interest investments Level 2.
Level 2 also includes the Companys holding of Barclays Bank Nuclear Power Notes, which was valued at 2 million 2009: 3.4 million.
There were no transfers between any levels during the year and no investments were held in Level 3.
Maturity Analysis of Contractual Liability Cash Flows The financial liabilities of the Company are shown in notes 11 and 12.
The main liabilities are the 30 million debenture and the bank overdraft of 69.9 million 2009: 36.3 million : with an overdraft facility of 75 million, 5.1 million 2009: 63.7 million was unused at the year end.
The debenture is repayable in 2014, with interest payable on 31 January and 31 June each year.
The bank overdraft is repayable in full on demand, and the current facility falls for renewal on 22 September 2010.
Overdraft interest is paid monthly.
Other liabilities comprise any amounts due to brokers and accruals.
All are paid under contractual terms.
For amounts due to brokers, this is usually the purchase date of the investment plus three business days.
For accruals, this is normally within 30 business days of invoice or, in the case of management fees, in accordance with the management agreement.
Capital Management The Company does not have any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Companys capital is as disclosed in the Balance Sheet and is managed on a basis consistent with its Investment Policy as disclosed in the Report of the Directors on pages 15 and 16.
The principal risks and their management are disclosed above.
Post Balance Sheet Events The Company announced, on 3 June 2010, that a proposed issue of B shares was to be postponed and a provision of 100,000 has been made subsequent to the year end against the Companys share of the costs incurred up to the date of the postponement.
An Extraordinary General Meeting held on 9 June 2010 approved the adoption of new Articles of Association which, inter alia, would allow an issue of B shares to take place in the future.
