50 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 18.
Related Party Transactions Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited, acts as Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator to the Company.
Details of IAMLs services and fees are disclosed in the Report of the Directors.
Full details of Directors interests are set out in the Report of the Directors on page 24.
There are no other related party transactions.
Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio as shown on pages 10 and 11, cash, borrowings including overdraft and debenture, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The accounting policies in note 1 include criteria for the recognition and the basis of measurement applied for financial instruments.
Note 1 also includes the basis on which income and expenses arising from financial assets and liabilities are recognised and measured.
The principal risks that an investment company faces in its portfolio management activities are set out below: Market risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk: Currency risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in foreign exchange rates: Interest rate risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in market interest rates: and Other price risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument for reasons other than changes in foreign exchange rates or market interest rates.
Liquidity risk arising from any difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
Credit risk arising from financial loss for a company where the other party to a financial instrument fails to discharge an obligation.
Risk Management Policies and Procedures The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment activities of the Company as more fully described in the Report of the Directors.
As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long term so as to meet its investment objective and policies.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
The risks applicable to the Company and the policies the Company used to manage these risks for the two years under review follow.
Market Risk The Companys Manager assesses the Companys exposure when making each investment decision, and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
The Board meets at least quarterly to assess risk and review investment performance, as disclosed on page 28.
No other derivative or hedging instruments are utilised to manage market risk.
Gearing is used to enhance returns, however, this will also increase the Companys exposure to market risk and volatility.
Currency risk The majority of the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated in sterling.
There is some exposure to US dollars.
Management of the currency risk The Manager monitors the Companys exposure to foreign currencies on a daily basis and reports to the board on a regular basis.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51 Forward currency contracts can be used to limit the Companys exposure to anticipated future changes in exchange rates which are used also to achieve the portfolio characteristics that assist the Company in meeting its investment objective and policies.
All contracts are limited to currencies and amounts commensurate with the asset exposure to those currencies.
Income denominated in foreign currencies is converted to sterling on receipt.
The Company does not use financial instruments to mitigate the currency exposure in the period between the time that income is included in the financial statements and its receipt.
Currency exposure The fair values of the Companys monetary items that have currency exposure at 31 March are shown below.
Where the Companys equity investments which are not monetary items are priced in a foreign currency, they have been included separately in the analysis so as to show the overall level of exposure.
31 MARCH 31 MARCH 2010 2009 US DOLLAR US DOLLAR 000 000 Forward currency sales Foreign currency exposure on net monetary items Investments at fair value through profit or loss that are equities 33,862 21,877 Total net foreign currency exposure 33,862 21,877 The above may not be representative of the exposure to risk during the year, because the levels of foreign currency exposure may change significantly throughout the year.
Currency sensitivity The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the profit after taxation for the year using exchange rates for sterling to US dollars.
It is based on the Companys monetary foreign currency financial instruments held at each balance sheet date and takes account of forward foreign exchange contracts that offset the effects of changes in currency exchange rates.
The exchange rate of 3.9% 2009: 13.5% has been determined based on market volatility in the year, using the Standard deviation of sterlings fluctuation to the US dollar against the mean.
If sterling had strengthened against the US dollar, this would have had the following effect: 2010 2009 000 000 Income statement profit loss after taxation Revenue return 82 274 Capital return 1,321 2,950 Total loss after taxation for the year 1,403 3,224 If sterling had weakened against the currencies shown, this would have had the following effect: 2010 2009 US$ US$ 000 000 Income statement profit loss after taxation Revenue return 82 274 Capital return 1,321 2,950 Total profit after taxation for the year 1,403 3,224 In the opinion of the Directors, the above sensitivity analyses are not representative of the year as a whole, since the level of exposure may change frequently as part of the currency risk management process of the Company.
52 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 19.
Financial Instruments continued Risk Management Policies and Procedures continued Interest rate risk Interest rate movements may affect the level of income receivable on cash deposits and the interest payable on variable rate borrowings.
When the Company has cash balances, they are held on variable rate bank accounts yielding rates of interest dependent on the base rate of the Custodian.
The Company has an uncommitted bank overdraft facility based on the lower of 25% of the net assets of the Company and 75 million.
The Company uses the facility when required at levels approved and monitored by the Board.
In addition, the Company also has in issue a 30 million 6.125% Debenture 2014.
At the year end drawings on the Companys overdraft were 69,907,000 2009: 36,269,000 and debenture had an amortised cost of 29,752,000 2009: 29,704,000.
At the maximum overdraft of 75 million, the effect of a 1% in the interest rate would result in a decrease or increase to the Companys income statement of 750,000.
The Company can invest in fixed interest securities and at the year end the level of exposure was 512,000 2009: 6,314,000 maturing after more than five years.
Of this none 2009: 4,583,000 was exposure to floating interest rates, giving cash flow interest rate risk, and 512,000 2009: 1,731,000 was exposure to fixed interest rates, giving fair value interest rate risk.
If interest rates were either to increase or decrease by 1%, there would be no effect on revenue as all was fixed: the estimated effect on capital profit after taxation is 25,000, resulting on no impact on the net asset value.
Other price risk Other price risks i. e. changes in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk may affect the value of the equity investments, but it is the business of the Manager to manage the portfolio to achieve the best return that he can.
Management of other price risk The Directors manage the market price risks inherent in the investment portfolio by meeting regularly to monitor on a formal basis the Managers compliance with the Companys stated objectives and policies and to review investment performance.
The Companys portfolio is the result of the Managers investment process and as a result is not correlated with the Companys benchmark or the market in which the Company invests.
The value of the portfolio will not move in line with the market but will move as a result of the performance of the company shares within the portfolio.
If the value of the portfolio fell by 10% at the balance sheet date, the profit after tax for the year would decrease by 58.7 million 2009: 44.1 million.
If the value of the portfolio rose by 10%, the profit after tax would increase by 58.7 million 2009: 44.1 million.
Liquidity risk Is minimised as the majority of the Companys investments comprise a diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding commitments as necessary.
In addition, the 30 million debenture and 75 million bank overdraft facility provide for additional funding flexibility.
Credit risk Encompasses the failure by counterparties to deliver securities which the Company has paid for, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered.
This risk is minimised by using only approved counterparties.
Investments may be adversely affected if the Companys custodian suffers insolvency or other financial difficulties.
The Board reviews the custodians annual controls report and the Managers management of the relationship with the custodian.
Cash balances are limited to a maximum of 5 million with any one depositary, with only approved depositories being used.
Fair Values of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities are either carried in the balance sheet at their fair value investments, or the balance sheet amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value due from brokers, dividends receivable, accrued income, due to brokers, accruals, cash at bank and overdraft.
The fair value of the 30 million 6.125% Debenture 2014, based on the offer value at the balance sheet date, is 30,480,000 2009: 30,523,000.
