GROSVENOR A302 E V A R. R 14 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Financial Calendar Trust plc the Company are quoted on the London The Company publishes information according to the Stock Exchange.
following calendar: Savings Plan and ISA Announcements Annual Results June The Company is a member of the Invesco Perpetual Half-yearly Results November Investment Trust Series 1: Savings and Investment Plan Interim Management Statements July October and the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISA.
The Companys Ordinary and Subscription shares can be Annual General Meeting July purchased and sold via these two schemes.
Year End 31 March Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: Ordinary Share Dividend Timetable Savings and Investment Plan 1st interim payable September The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: 2nd interim payable December Savings and Investment Plan allows an investor to 3rd interim payable March make monthly purchases from 20 per month or 4th interim payable June through lump sum investments of 500 or above in the shares of the Company in a straightforward and low Location of AGM cost way.
The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISA SW1X 7TA on 12 July 2010 at 12.00 noon.
The AGM will be followed by light refreshments.
The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISA allows investments up to 10,200 in the shares of the Company in each tax year.
Investors can also choose to make lump sum investments from 500, or regular investments from 20 per month.
GREEN PARK For full details of these Invesco Perpetual Investment Schemes please contact Invesco Perpetuals Investor Services team free on 0800 085 8677.
BUCKINGHAM PALACE GDNS Share Price Listings The price of your shares can be found in The Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times, The Independent and The Evening Standard.
In addition, share price information can be found under the following: Subscription Shares Reuters Base cost for the calculation of taxation on capital ordinary shares PLI.
L Trading in the subscription shares issued by the Bloomberg Company to qualifying shareholders commenced on ordinary shares PLI:LN 31 May 2005.
Further to the details outlined in the subscription shares PLIS:LN prospectus, for the purposes of UK taxation, the issue of subscription shares is treated as a reorganisation of Internet addresses the Companys share capital.
Whereas such Trust Net www.
com reorganisations do not trigger a chargeable disposal for Interactive Investor www.
co. uk the purposes of capital gains, they do require Association of www.
co. uk shareholders to reallocate the base costs of their Investment Companies ordinary shares between ordinary shares and subscription shares acquired under the bonus issue.
NAV Publication At the close of business on 31 May 2005, the middle The NAV is published daily in The Daily Telegraph and market prices of the Companys ordinary shares and The Financial Times and notified to the London Stock subscription shares were as follows: Exchange the next business day.
All London Stock Exchange announcements appear on the Companys Ordinary Shares 190.25p website.
Subscription Shares 34.50p Accordingly, an individual investor who, on 27 May 2005, Company Website held ten ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would The Companys website can be located at have received a bonus issue of one subscription share www.
or the relevant multiple thereof and would apportion the base cost of such holding 98.22% to the ten ordinary shares and 1.78% to the subscription shares.
If you need tax advice, you should contact a qualified tax professional.
