PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 Independence The Board comprises five non-executive Directors, four of whom are considered independent.
Sir Martyn Arbib was founder and chairman of Perpetual plc, which was acquired by Invesco Ltd in December 2000.
The Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, is a subsidiary of Invesco Ltd.
In accordance with the AIC Code, a recent employee of the Manager, who is also a Director of the Company, should not be considered independent unless his employment ceased over five years ago.
Sir Martyns employment with Invesco Ltd ceased in 2002 and the Board are satisfied that he can be considered an independent Director.
Bob Yerbury is Chief Investment Officer and a director of IAML and, in accordance with the AIC Code, is not considered independent.
Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details are shown on page 12.
The AIC Code recommends that any director serving on a board for more than nine years should seek re-election annually.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of Sir Martyn Arbib and Antony Hardy in light of their having served on the Board for over nine years and has concluded that they continue, both collectively and individually, to be effective and make valuable contributions to the Board.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Board consider that they each remain independent, a view which has been demonstrated by their actions on behalf of the Company and their other professional involvements.
Chairman The Chairman is Bill Alexander, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Since all Directors are non-executive and day-to-day management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Due to the size of the Board, the Board has not appointed a deputy chairman.
Senior Independent Director The AIC Code recommends the appointment of a Senior Independent Director.
The Board has therefore appointed Antony Hardy as the Senior Independent Director, who is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Manager have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors to fulfil their roles, the Manager and Company Secretary ensures that they have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information to enable informed decisions to be made.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained between the Manager and Company Secretary and the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager or Company Secretary on the current investment position and outlook: strategic direction: performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group: asset allocation: gearing policy: cash management: revenue forecasts for the financial year: marketing and shareholder relations: corporate governance: and industry and other issues.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also
