PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 Conflicts of Interest The Act sets out the Directors general duties which largely codify the previous law but with some changes.
Under the Act, a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Act allows the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to approve such situations and include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a potential conflict of interest.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
Any potential conflicts of interest are entered into the Companys register of potential conflicts, which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The register of potential conflicts of interest is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
The Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
Directors who have potential conflicts of interest will not take part in any discussions which relate to any of their potential conflicts.
Deed of Indemnity Under the terms of a Deed of Indemnity between the Directors and the Company, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the discharge of his duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by the Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement thereof.
A Director may also receive funding of any expenditure incurred in connection with any such liability.
Directors will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnity notwithstanding that they may have ceased to be Directors of the Company.
However, a Director will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company, for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted or in defending any civil proceedings bought by the Company in which judgment is given against him.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Act or otherwise prohibited by law, if it relates to tax payable on remuneration or other benefits received, or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith.
The Deed of Indemnity is available for inspection at the AGM and at the Registered Office at any time.
Individual Savings Account ISA Both the ordinary and subscription shares of the Company are qualifying investments under ISA regulations.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2010 2009: nil.
