Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 61 m Capital Reserves Capital reserves gains losses on disposal includes: gains losses on disposal of investments exchange differences on currency balances and on settlement of loan balances cost of own shares bought back other capital charges and credits charged to this account in accordance with the accounting policies above Capital reserve revaluation on investments held includes: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments and loans held at the year end All of the above are accounted for in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income except the cost of own shares bought back which is accounted for in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
n Derivative Financial Instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Group may enter into comprise forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage the currency risks arising from the Groups investing activities, quoted options on shares held within the portfolio, or on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio, the purpose of which is to provide protection against falls in capital values of the holdings.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies as approved by the Board, which has set written principles for the use of financial derivatives.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the market risk prole of an existing underlying exposure of the Group.
The use of financial derivatives by the Group does not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS.
As a result changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as they arise.
If capital in nature, the associated change in value is presented in the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Consolidated Income.
o Segmental Reporting The Group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments for the first time, replacing the previous reporting under IAS 14, Segment Reporting.
Under IFRS 8, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identied as the Manager with oversight from the Board.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group has two operating segments, being the parent Company, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, which has the objective of maximising capital growth for its shareholders through investing in a diversied portfolio of technology companies around the world, and its wholly owned subsidiary, PCT Finance Limited, which trades in securities to enhance Group returns.
An analysis of financial results and balances by business segment is set out in note 28.
The amounts presented for each segment are based on the accounting policies adopted in the Group accounts.
Discrete financial information for these segments is reviewed regularly by the Manager who allocates resources, and the Board who oversees the Managers performance.
In line with IFRS 8, additional disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 28.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profit and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
