38 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Payment of Creditors It has been and will remain the Companys policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no single policy as to the terms used.
The Company and its subsidiarys policy is to settle all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
In general the Company agrees with its other suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at 30 April 2010.
Service Providers Apart from the arrangements with Polar Capital LLP to provide investment, company secretarial and administrative services including accounting, portfolio valuation and trade settlement, the Company also contracts directly with JP Morgan Chase NA which acts as global custodian for all the Companys investments.
The Company also retains the services of Cenkos Securities plc as corporate broker, Equiniti Limited as the registrars and  LLP as tax advisers and independent auditors.
HSBC Securities Services UK Limited has been retained by the Investment Manager to provide the accounting, valuation and trade settlement services and BNP Paribas Securities Services is retained by the Investment Manager, on behalf of the Company and at the Companys expense, to provide a share savings arrangement and an ISA.
Huguenot Services Limited provide web design and hosting services.
Auditors  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as the Companys Statutory Auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The fees paid to the Auditors in respect of the audit of the annual accounts amounted to 27,000 2009: 28,000.
The Company has also used  LLP to give advice on VAT recoverability, Section 1158, and other taxation issues.
These other taxation services are provided by the Newcastle ofce while the audit work is carried out by the Edinburgh and London ofces.
The fees paid for the taxation advice services amounted to 55,000 2009: 25,000.
The Directors do not consider the provision of this non-audit work to the Company affects the independence of the Auditors.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 July 2010 at 12.30pm at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the Investment Manager and meet the Directors.
The separate Notice of Meeting contains resolutions to receive the accounts, approve the Directors remuneration report, re-appoint retiring Directors, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares for cancellation.
For the AGM in 2010 there are two additional items of business being proposed, one is an ordinary resolution for the continued life of the Company and the other is a special resolution to adopt new Articles of Association.
The full text of all the resolutions and an explanation of each is contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
Report on Corporate Governance The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code.
As an investment company most of the day to day responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as the Company has no employees and all the directors are non-executive.
Many of the provisions of the Combined Code are not directly applicable to the Company and the Board has determined that reporting against the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code which incorporates the Combined Code, provides the most appropriate information to shareholders.
The Financial Reporting Council confirmed in 2009 that by following the AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies produced by the AIC, boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code and the UK Listing Rules.
Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
