62 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued p Key Estimates and Assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The only estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unquoted investments and investments for which there is an inactive market.
These are valued in accordance with the techniques set out in note 1 g. At the year end, unquoted investments represent 0.2% of net assets.
q Accounting Standards a Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the current financial year adopted by the Group: IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements.
The revised standard requires the separate presentation of changes in equity attributable to the owners equity shareholders and other non-owner changes.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement, but entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has applied IAS 1 revised from 1May 2009 and has elected to present solely a statement of comprehensive income.
Where an entity restates or reclassies comparative information, they are also required to present a restated balance sheet as at the beginning of the comparative period.
The adoption of this revised standard has not resulted in a significant change to the presentation of the Groups performance statement, as the Group has no elements of other comprehensive income not previously included in its Income Statement.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
The amendment was part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008.
The amendment permits an entity to reclassify particular financial assets in some circumstances and the denition of financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss as it relates to items that are held for trading was amended.
Adoption did not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 7 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Introduced new disclosure requirements whereby financial instruments must be categorised under a three-level fair value hierarchy.
A reconciliation is also required for any investments categorised as Level 3.
The additional disclosures resulting from this amendment have been included in Note 12 on page 67.
The amendments to IFRS 7 also introduce some additional disclosures on liquidity risk which are included in note 29 b. IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
The amendment provides exemptions from financial liability classication for a puttable financial instruments that meet certain conditions: and b certain instruments or components of instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro-rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation as equity.
Adoption did not have any impact on the Groups financial statements.
Replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131.
The new standard requires a management approach under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The adoption of this standard has resulted in additional disclosure within the Groups financial statements.
Requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
This is not currently relevant to the Group, which has no qualifying assets.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
