50 Financial Statements Statement of Directors Responsibilities STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES In Respect of the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditors As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditors are aware of such information.
Going Concern The Board assessment of the Groups position as at 30 April 2010 and the factors impacting the forthcoming year are set out in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 11 and in the Directors Report which incorporates the business review and corporate governance statements.
As required by the Companys Articles of Association, an ordinary resolution is put to the Companys shareholders every five years, at the AGM, to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The next such resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM in 2010.
The Directors have recommended that shareholders vote in favour of the continuation of the Company.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, and its liquidity position is described in the Business Review on pages 30 to 46.
Note 29 to the financial statements includes the Groups policies and process for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities.
Exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are also disclosed.
The Group has considerable financial resources and after making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
indd 50 17 06 2010 06:44 Financial Statements Statement of Directors Responsibilities 51 Responsibility Statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on page 29, confirm to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report and Directors Report together constituting the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial position of the Company and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and include a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 10 June 2010 and the responsibility statement was signed on its behalf by Richard Wakeling, Chairman of the Board.
R K A Wakeling Chairman 10 June 2010 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
indd 51 17 06 2010 06:44 DIRECTORS REPORT 52 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLAR CAPITAL TECHNOLOGY TRUST PLC We have audited the financial statements of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc for the year ended 30 April 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on pages 50 and 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2010 and of the Groups profit and Groups and Companys cash ows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the report on corporate governance set out on pages 38 to 46 with respect to internal controls and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
