88 Shareholder Information Warning to Shareholders WARNINGS TO SHAREHOLDERS Share Prices More detailed information on this or similar activity Investors should be aware that the value of the can be found on the FSA website Companys shares may reect the greater relative www.
uk volatility of technology shares.
Technology shares Forward Looking Statements are subject to the risks of developing technologies, Certain statements included in this Annual Report competitive pressures and other factors including and Accounts contain forward-looking information the acceptance by business and consumers of new concerning the Companys strategy, operations, financial technologies.
Many companies in the technology performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities sector are smaller companies and are therefore also or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in subject to the risks attendant on investing in smaller which the Company operates.
looking statements involve uncertainty because they depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, Boiler Room Scams not all of which are within the Companys control or can Over the last year, many companies have become aware be predicted by the Company.
Although the Company that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone believes that the expectations reected in such forwardcalls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can These are typically from overseas based brokers who be given that such expectations will prove to have been target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often correct.
Actual results could differ materially from those turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK set out in the forward-looking statements.
These operations are commonly known as analysis of the factors that may affect our business, boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and financial performance or results of operations, we urge extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial you to look at the principal risks and uncertainties Services Authority FSA has reported that the average included in the Business Review on pages 30 to 35 of amount lost by investors is around 20,000. this Annual Report and Accounts.
No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully or inducement to invest in Polar Capital Technology Trust plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy any way in connection with any investment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: forward-looking statements.
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
