Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 75 PCT Finance Limiteds liabilities as at 30 April 2010 are 3,388,000 2009: 3,382,000, all of which are payable to the Company.
Hence all of the liabilities included in the consolidated accounts relate to the Company.
The net profit of PCT Finance Limited is made up of 21,000 interest net of 6,000 corporation tax 2009: 162,000 interest and 13,000 exchange gains net of 48,000 corporation tax.
These gures are included within Total Income in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
All other gures in that statement relate to the Company.
29 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Risk Management Policies and Procedures The Group comprises of an investment trust and a wholly owned subsidiary.
The Group invests in equities and other financial instruments for the long-term to further the investment objective set out on page 31.
This exposes the Group to a range of financial risks that could impact on the assets or performance of the Group.
The main risks arising from the Groups pursuit of its investment objective are market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk and the Directors approach to the management of them is set out below.
The risks have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year to which the accounts relate.
The Groups exposure to financial instruments comprise: Equity and non-equity shares and xed interest securities which are held in the investment portfolio in accordance with the Groups investment objective.
Term loans and bank overdrafts, the main purpose of which is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
Cash, liquid resources and short-term receivables and payables that arise directly from the Groups operations.
Derivative transactions which the Group enters into may include equity or index options, index future contracts, and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The purpose of these is to manage the market price risks and foreign exchange risks arising from the Groups investment activities.
The overall management of the risks is determined by the Board and its approach to each risk identied is set out below.
The Board and the investment manager co-ordinate the risk management and the investment manager assesses the exposure to market risk when making each investment decision.
a Market Risk Market risk comprises three types of risk: market price risk see note 29 a i, currency risk see note 29 a ii, and interest rate risk see note 29 a iii.
i Market Price Risk The Company is an investment company and as such its performance is dependent on its valuation of its investments.
Consequently market price risk is the most significant risk that the Group faces.
Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Groups operations.
It represents the potential loss the Group might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
A detailed breakdown of the investment portfolio is given on pages 22 to 28.
Investments are valued in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as stated in Note 2 g. The Group had no derivative instruments at the year-end, but, in the event that it had, the value of derivative instruments held at the balance sheet date would be determined by reference to their fair value at that date.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
