Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 59 case basis before a conclusion on appropriate allocation is reached.
Where the Company has received dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the revenue return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any excess in value of shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The xed returns on debt securities and non-equity shares are recognised under the effective interest rate method.
Bank interest and other income receivable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The dealing profits of the subsidiary undertaking, representing realised gains and losses on the sale of current asset investments, are dealt with in the Group financial statements as a revenue item.
e Expenses and Finance Costs All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
All expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: any performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, reecting the fact that, although they are calculated on a total return basis, they are expected to be attributable largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
transaction costs incurred on the acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed either as part of the unrealised gain loss on investments for acquisition costs or as a deduction from the proceeds of sale for disposal costs.
Finance costs are calculated using the effective interest rate method and are accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the overseas withholding tax deducted from investment income, tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 formerly 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
