Financial statements 83 Statement of accounting policies General information The company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is No.
The company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments to fair value.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to use certain critical accounting estimates and are required to exercise judgment in the application of the group and companys accounting policies.
In order to align the weekly Home Credit business with the groups financial year, Home Credits 2010 financial year includes 53 weeks, compared with 52 weeks in 2009.
The results of all other operations are based on calendar years in both the 2010 and 2009 financial years.
The group and companys principal accounting policies under IFRS, which have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated, are set out below.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory and were applied by the group and company for the first time in the financial year commencing 1 January 2010 but had no impact on the group or company in the current or prior accounting periods: IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates, and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes such as the requirement for all payments to purchase a business to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the statement of comprehensive income.
IAS 27 revised requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners, provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, states that, in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the group, including the foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements, clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, clarifies that the largest cash generating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions, incorporates IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, and expands on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, clarifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 84 Statement of accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations were in issue but were not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010 and were not early adopted by the group or company.
Adoption of these standards and interpretations is not expected to have a material impact on the group or company financial statements: IFRS 9, Financial instruments, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
The standard is available for early adoption but is subject to EU endorsement.
IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party and removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and other government-related entities.
Classification of rights issues amendment to IAS 32, is effective for accounting period beginning on or after 1 February 2010 and addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 and clarifies the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
The interpretation is subject to EU endorsement.
Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement amendments to IFRIC 14, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and corrects an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction, which did not permit entities to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in shareholders equity, statement of cashflows and notes to the financial statements include the financial statements of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up from the date control passes to the group until the date control ceases.
Control is assumed to exist where more than 50% of the voting share capital is owned or where the group controls another entity either through the power to: govern the operating and financial policies of that entity: appoint or remove the majority of the members of the board of that entity: or cast the majority of the votes at a board meeting of that entity.
All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the accounting policies of the group.
Revenue Revenue comprises interest income earned by the Consumer Credit Division and interest and fee income earned by Vanquis Bank.
Revenue excludes value added tax and intra-group transactions.
Revenue recognition Within the Consumer Credit Division, revenue on customer receivables is recognised using an effective interest rate.
The effective interest rate is calculated using estimated cashflows, being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of customers repaying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers paying late or not paying at all.
Directly attributable incremental issue costs are also taken into account in calculating the effective interest rate.
Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original effective interest rate applied to the loans carrying value.
In respect of Vanquis Bank, interest is calculated on credit card advances to customers using the effective interest rate on the daily balance outstanding.
Annual fees charged to customers credit card accounts are recognised as part of the effective interest rate.
Penalty charges and other fees are recognised at the time the charges are made to customers on the basis that performance is complete.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued 85 Segment reporting IFRS 8 requires segment reporting to be based on the internal financial information reported to the chief operating decision maker.
The groups chief operating decision maker is deemed to be the Executive Committee comprising Peter Crook Chief Executive, Andrew Fisher Finance Director and Chris Gillespie Managing Director, Consumer Credit Division whose primary responsibility it is to manage the groups day to day operations and analyse trading performance.
The groups segments comprise the Consumer Credit Division, Vanquis Bank and Central which are those segments reported in the groups management accounts used by the Executive Committee as the primary means for analysing trading performance.
The Executive Committee assesses profit performance using profit before tax measured on a basis consistent with the disclosure in the group financial statements.
Finance costs Finance costs principally comprise the interest on bank and other borrowings and, for the company, on intra-group loan arrangements, and are recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
Finance costs also include the fair value movement on those derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes which do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39. Dividend income Dividend income is recognised in the income statement when the companys right to receive payment is established.
Goodwill All acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
Goodwill is an intangible asset and is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a subsidiary include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purposes of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment is tested by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the discounted expected future cashflows from the relevant business unit.
Expected cashflows are derived from the groups latest budget projections and the discount rate is based on the groups weighted average cost of capital at the balance sheet date.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 was eliminated against shareholders funds under UK GAAP and was not reinstated on transition to IFRS.
On disposal of a business, any such goodwill relating to the business will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, which comprise computer software and computer software development costs, represent the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specific software and bring it into use.
Directly attributable costs associated with the development of software that will generate future economic benefits are capitalised as an intangible asset.
Directly attributable costs include the cost of software development employees and an appropriate portion of relevant directly attributable overheads.
Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated to be between five and ten years.
The residual values and economic lives of intangible assets are reviewed by management at each balance sheet date.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement as part of administrative costs.
Foreign currency translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
All of the groups subsidiaries operate primarily in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
The consolidated and company financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentational currency.
Transactions that are not denominated in the groups functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except when deferred in equity as effective cashflow or net investment hedges.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 86 Statement of accounting policies continued Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Amounts receivable from customers All customer receivables are initially recognised at the amount loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the effective interest rate, less any deduction for impairment.
The group assesses whether there is objective evidence that customer receivables have been impaired at each balance sheet date.
The principal criterion for determining whether there is objective evidence of impairment is delinquency in contractual payments.
Within the weekly Home Credit business of the Consumer Credit Division, objective evidence of impairment is based on the payment performance of loans in the previous 12 weeks as this is considered to be the most appropriate indicator of credit quality in the short-term cash loans business.
Loans are deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount of two or more contractual weekly payments have been missed in the previous 12-week period since only at this point do the expected future cashflows from loans deteriorate significantly.
Loans with one missed weekly payment over the previous 12-week period are not deemed to be impaired.
The amount of impairment loss is calculated on a portfolio basis by reference to arrears stages and is measured as the difference between the carrying value of the loans and the present value of estimated future cashflows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Subsequent cashflows are regularly compared to estimated cashflows to ensure that the estimates are sufficiently accurate for impairment provisioning purposes.
Within the monthly Vanquis Bank credit card business and the monthly unsecured direct repayment loans of the Consumer Credit Division, customer balances are deemed to be impaired as soon as customers miss one monthly contractual payment.
Impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value of receivables and the present value of estimated future cashflows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Estimated future cashflows are based on the historical performance of customer balances falling into different arrears stages and are regularly reassessed.
For the Consumer Credit Division, impairment charges are deducted directly from the carrying value of receivables whilst in Vanquis Bank impairment is recorded through the use of an allowance account.
Impairment charges are charged to the income statement as part of operating costs.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable value over their useful economic lives.
The following are the principal bases used: % Method Land Nil 1 Freehold and long leasehold buildings 22 Straight-line Short leasehold buildings Over the lease period Straight-line 1 Equipment including computer hardware 10 to 333 Straight-line Motor vehicles 25 Reducing balance The residual values and useful economic lives of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
All items of property, plant and equipment, other than land, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Land is subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing any proceeds with the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised within administrative costs in the income statement.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement as part of administrative costs.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The leases entered into by the group and company are solely operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued 87 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and amounts invested in money market funds.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
For the statement of cashflows, bank overdrafts are shown as part of cash and cash equivalents.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
Where borrowings are the subject of a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the borrowing that are attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment made to the carrying value of borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group or company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments The group and company use derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange contracts, to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Derivatives that meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 are accordingly designated as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cashflow hedges.
The relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of a transaction, as well as the risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The assessment of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cashflows of hedged items is documented, both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at each reporting date at their fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised immediately within the income statement.
Where hedge accounting criteria have been met, the resultant gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognised as follows: Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement as part of finance costs, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cashflow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cashflow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting for both fair value and cashflow hedges is discontinued when: it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: or the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
When a cashflow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cashflow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is transferred to the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was previously reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
The fair values of various derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 16.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 26.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group or company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is reliably measurable and it is probable that the group or company will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 88 Statement of accounting policies continued Dividends Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are recognised in the group and company financial statements as follows: Final dividend: when approved by the companys shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Interim dividend: when paid by the company.
Retirement benefits Defined benefit pension schemes The charge in the income statement in respect of defined benefit pension schemes comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of working employees, together with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme assets.
All charges are recognised within administrative costs in the income statement.
The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of the schemes assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
A retirement benefit asset is recognised to the extent that the group and company have an unconditional right to a refund of the asset and it will be recovered in future years as a result of reduced contributions to the pension scheme.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless changes to the pension schemes are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Defined contribution schemes Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Share-based payments The company grants options under senior executive share option schemes ESOS SESO and employee savings-related share option schemes typically referred to as Save As You Earn schemes SAYE and makes awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
All of the schemes are equity-settled.
The cost of providing options and awards to group and company employees is charged to the income statement of the group and company over the vesting period of the related options and awards.
The corresponding credit is made to a share-based payment reserve within equity.
The grant by the company of options and awards over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the fair value at the date of grant or award, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investments in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The cost of options and awards is based on fair value.
For ESOS SESO, SAYE and PSP schemes the performance conditions are based on earnings per share EPS.
Accordingly, the fair value of options and awards is determined using a binomial option pricing model which is a suitable model for valuing options with internal related targets such as EPS.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect lapses and expected and actual levels of vesting, with a corresponding adjustment to the share-based payment reserve.
For the 2006, 2007 and 2008 LTIS schemes, performance conditions are based on Total Shareholder Return TSR.
Accordingly, the fair value of awards was determined using a Monte Carlo option pricing model as this is the most appropriate model for valuing options with external related targets such as TSR.
For the 2009 and 2010 LTIS schemes, performance conditions are based on a combination of both EPS and TSR targets.
Accordingly, the fair value of awards was determined using a combination of the Monte Carlo and binomial option pricing models.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect lapses.
Where the Monte Carlo option pricing model is used to determine fair value, no adjustment is made to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting as the probability of the awards vesting is taken into account in the initial calculation of the fair value of the awards.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs for share options vesting are credited to share capital and the share premium account when the options are exercised.
A transfer is made from the share-based payment reserve to retained earnings on vesting or when options and awards lapse.
In accordance with IFRS 2 the group and company have elected to apply IFRS 2 to grants, options and other equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested at 1 January 2005.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any group company purchases the companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is included within a treasury shares reserve and deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs, is included within the treasury shares reserve.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued 89 Taxation The tax charge represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Key assumptions and estimates In applying the accounting policies set out above, the group and company make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Amounts receivable from customers 1,219.3m The group reviews its portfolio of loans and receivables for impairment at each balance sheet date.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future payment performance.
The group makes judgments to determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on expected future cashflows.
In the weekly Home Credit business, receivables are deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount of two or more contractual weekly payments have been missed in the previous 12 weeks, since only at this point do the expected future cashflows from loans deteriorate significantly.
Customer accounts in Vanquis Bank and the monthly unsecured direct repayment loans of the Consumer Credit Division are deemed to be impaired when one contractual monthly payment has been missed.
The level of impairment in all businesses is calculated using models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cashflows from each arrears stage, and are regularly tested using subsequent cash collections to ensure they retain sufficient accuracy.
The impairment models are regularly reviewed to take account of the current economic environment, product mix and recent customer payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cashflows, a material adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated future cashflows differs by - 1%, it is estimated that the amounts receivable from customers would be approximately 12m 2009: 11m higher lower.
Tax current tax liabilities 44.4m, deferred tax asset 2.8m The tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined precisely until tax audits or enquiries have been completed by the tax authorities.
In some instances, this can be some years after the item has first been reflected in the financial statements.
The group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of the probability of such liabilities falling due.
If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability is different from the amount originally estimated, such differences will be recognised in the period in which the tax audit or enquiry is determined.
Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet.
If the probability assessment of uncertain tax liabilities was adjusted by - 5%, it is estimated that the groups tax liabilities would be 1.5m 2009: 1.9m higher lower.
Retirement benefit asset 41.0m The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the retirement benefit asset as at 31 December 2010 are set out in note 18.
The valuation of the retirement benefit asset is dependent upon a series of assumptions: the key assumptions being mortality rates, the discount rate applied to liabilities, investment returns, salary inflation, the rate of pension increase and the extent to which members take up the maximum tax-free commutation on retirement.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the groups own experience.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high quality corporate bonds which have terms closely linked with the estimated term of the benefit obligation.
The returns on fixed asset investments are set to market yields at the valuation date to ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
The returns on UK and overseas equities are set by considering the long-term expected returns on these asset classes using a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward-looking views of financial markets as suggested by the yields available and the views of investment organisations.
The salary inflation and pension increase assumptions reflect the long-term expectations for both earnings and retail price inflation.
The assumption as to how many members will take up the maximum tax-free commutation on retirement is based on the schemes own experience of commutation levels.
A sensitivity analysis of certain of the key assumptions is provided in note 18.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010
