160 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES A1: NATURE OF OPERATIONS Prudential plc the Company together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Prudential is an international financial services group with its principal operations in the UK, the US and Asia.
The Group operates in the UK through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC, Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL and M&G Investment Management Limited.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson.
The Group also has operations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and other Asian countries.
Prudential offers a wide range of retail financial products and services and asset management services throughout these territories.
The retail financial products and services principally include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as collective investment schemes.
Long-term business products written in the UK and Asia are principally with-profits deposit administration, other conventional and unitised with-profits policies and non-participating pension annuities in the course of payment.
Long-term business also includes linked business written in the UK and Asia.
In Asia these policies are usually sold with insurance riders, such as health cover.
The principal products written by Jackson are interest-sensitive deferred annuities and whole-life policies, variable annuities, guaranteed investment contracts, xed index deferred annuities and term life insurance.
Prudential plc is a public limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered ofce is: Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number: 1397169 A2: BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements consolidate the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU as required by EU law IAS regulation EC 1606 2032.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
These are presented on pages 375 to 386.
A reconciliation to IFRS has also been provided for shareholders equity and profit for the year of the parent company.
The Group has applied all IFRS standards and interpretations adopted by the EU that are effective for financial years commencing on or before 1 January 2010.
Further details on the new accounting pronouncements and accounting policy changes are provided in note A5.
The Group has applied the same accounting policies in preparing the 2010 results as for 2009 except for the adoption of IFRS 3 Revised on business combinations and associated amendments to other standards.
However, as discussed in note A4 d ii, the measurement of the segment measure of IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for US insurance operations has altered.
Comparative segment results have been adjusted accordingly.
A3: CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS a Critical accounting policies Prudentials discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Prudentials consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
As at 31 December 2010, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the two years ended 31 December 2010 affecting the consolidated financial information of Prudential and there were no differences between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to Prudential.
Accordingly, Prudentials financial information for the two years ended 31 December 2010 is prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
It is Prudentials policy to adopt mandatory requirements of new or altered EU-adopted IFRS standards where required, with earlier adoption applied where permitted and appropriate in the circumstances.
The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning, the fair value of assets and the declaration of bonus rates.
Prudential bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 161 Critical accounting policies are dened as those that are reective of significant judgements and uncertainties, and potentially give rise to different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to those described below.
The critical accounting policies in respect of the items discussed below are critical for the Groups results insofar as they relate to the Groups shareholder-nanced business.
In particular this applies for Jackson which is the largest shareholder-backed business in the Group.
The policies are not critical in respect of the Groups with-profits business.
This distinction reects the basis of recognition of profit and accounting treatment of unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as a liability.
Additional explanation is provided later in this note and cross-referenced notes as to why the distinction between with-profits business and shareholder-backed business is relevant.
The items discussed below and in cross-referenced notes explain the effect of changes in estimates and the effect of reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying these estimates as of the latest statement of financial position date so as to provide analysis that recognises the different accounting effects on profit and loss or equity.
In order to provide relevant analysis that is appropriate to the circumstances applicable to the Groups businesses, the explanations refer to types of business, fund structure, the relationship between asset and policyholder liability measurement, and the differences in the method of accounting permitted under IFRS 4 for accounting for insurance contract assets, policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the Groups with-profits funds.
Insurance contract accounting With the exception of certain contracts described in note D1, the contracts issued by the Groups life assurance business are classied as insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
As permitted by IFRS 4, assets and liabilities of these contracts are accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
Accordingly, except as described below, the modied statutory basis MSB of reporting as set out in the revised Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI has been applied.
In 2005 the Group chose to improve its IFRS accounting for UK regulated with-profits funds by the voluntary application of the UK accounting standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
Under this standard, the main accounting changes that were required for UK with-profits funds were: derecognition of deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax: and replacement of MSB liabilities with adjusted realistic basis liabilities.
The results included in the financial statements for 2010 and 2009 reect this basis.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds that have yet to be appropriated between policyholders and shareholders.
The Group has opted to account for unallocated surplus wholly as a liability with no allocation to equity.
This treatment reects the fact that shareholders participation in the cost of bonuses arises only on distribution.
Shareholder profits on with-profits business reect one-ninth of the cost of declared bonus.
For Jackson, applying the MSB as applicable to overseas operations which permits the application of local GAAP in some circumstances, the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts are accounted for under insurance accounting prescribed by US GAAP.
For the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of Asian operations, the local GAAP is applied with adjustments, where necessary, to comply with UK GAAP.
For the operations in Taiwan, Vietnam and Japan, countries where local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB, accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For participating business the liabilities include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that, where appropriate, and in particular for Vietnam, have yet to be declared as bonuses.
The usage of these bases of accounting has varying effects on the way in which product options and guarantees are measured.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, options and guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The basis is described in note D2 g ii.
For other operations a market consistent basis is not applied under the accounting basis described in note A4.
Details of the guarantees, basis of setting assumptions, and sensitivity to altered assumptions are described in notes D3 and D4.
Valuation and accounting presentation of fair value movements of derivatives and debt securities of Jackson Under IAS 39, derivatives are required to be carried at fair value.
Unless net investment hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
As previously discussed the Group has chosen to change its presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations as explained further in note A4 d ii.
Derivative value movements in respect of equity risk within variable annuity business and other equity related hedging activities are now included outside operating profit as part of short-term uctuations in investment returns.
Accordingly, the value movements on all derivatives held by Jackson are separately identied within the short-term uctuations in investment returns identied as part of the Groups segment results described below and in note B1.
162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A3: CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED For derivative instruments of Jackson, the Group has considered whether it is appropriate to undertake the necessary operational changes to qualify for hedge accounting so as to achieve matching of value movements in hedging instruments and hedged items in the performance statements.
In reaching the decision a number of factors were particularly relevant.
These were: IAS 39 hedging criteria have been designed primarily in the context of hedging and hedging instruments that are assessable as financial instruments that are either stand-alone or separable from host contracts, rather than, for example, duration characteristics of insurance contracts: the high hurdle levels under IAS 39 of ensuring hedge effectiveness at the level of individual hedge transactions: the difficulties in applying the macro hedge provisions under IAS 39 which are more suited to banking arrangements to Jacksons derivative book: the complexity of asset and liability matching of US life insurers such as those with Jacksons product range: and nally whether it is possible or desirable, without an unacceptable level of costs and constraint on commercial activity, to achieve the accounting hedge effectiveness required under IAS 39.
Taking account of these considerations the Group has decided that, except for certain minor categories of derivatives, it is not appropriate to seek to achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39.
As a result of this decision the total income statement results are more volatile as the movements in the value of Jacksons derivatives are reected within it.
Under IAS 39, unless carried at amortised cost subject to impairment provisions where appropriate under the held-to-maturity category, debt securities are also carried at fair value.
The Group has chosen not to classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Debt securities of Jackson are designated as available-for-sale with value movements, unless impaired, being recorded as movements within other comprehensive income.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement.
Presentation of results before tax The total tax charge for the Group reects tax that in addition to relating to shareholders profits is also attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
This is explained in more detail in note F5.
However, pre-tax profits are determined after transfers to or from unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
These transfers are in turn determined after taking account of tax borne by with-profits funds.
Consequently reported profit before the total tax charge is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders.
In order to provide a measure of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders the Group has chosen to adopt an income statement presentation of the tax charge and pre-tax results that distinguishes between policyholder and shareholder components.
Segmental analysis of results and earnings attributable to shareholders The Group uses operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as the segmental measure of its results.
The basis of calculation is disclosed in note A4 d. For shareholder-backed business, with the exception of debt securities held by Jackson and assets classied as loans and receivables, all financial investments and investment property are designated as assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Short-term uctuations in investment returns on such assets held by with-profits funds, do not affect directly reported shareholder results.
This is because i the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds is accounted for as liabilities and ii excess or deficits of income and expenditure of the funds over the required surplus for distribution are transferred to or from unallocated surplus.
However, for shareholder-backed businesses the short-term uctuations affect the result for the year and the Group provides additional analysis of results to provide information on results before and after short-term uctuations in investment returns.
b Critical accounting estimates and judgements Investments Determining the fair value of financial investments when the markets are not active The Group holds certain financial investments for which the markets are not active.
These can include financial investments which are not quoted on active markets and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions e. g. market illiquidity.
When the markets are not active, there is generally no or limited observable market data to account for financial investments at fair value.
The determination of whether an active market exists for a financial investment requires managements judgement.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group establishes fair value for these financial investments by using quotations from independent third-parties, such as brokers or pricing services or by using internally developed pricing models.
Priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the source of pricing and or the valuation technique is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash ow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these financial investments.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 163 The financial investments measured at fair value are classied into the following three level hierarchy on the basis of the lowest level of inputs that is significant to the fair value measurement of the financial investment concerned: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
At 31 December 2010, 4,573 million 2009: 5,557 million of the financial investments net of derivative liabilities valued at fair value were classied as level 3.
Of these 866 million 2009: 1,684 million are held to back shareholder non-linked business and so changes to these valuations will directly impact shareholders equity.
Further details of the classication of financial instruments are given in note G1.
Determining impairments relating to financial assets Available-for-sale securities Financial investments carried on an available-for-sale basis are represented by Jacksons debt securities portfolio.
The consideration of evidence of impairment requires managements judgement.
In making this determination the factors considered include, for example: Whether the decline of the financial investments fair value is substantial.
A substantial decline in fair value might be indicative of a credit loss event that would lead to a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows.
The impact of the duration of the security on the calculation of the revised estimated cash ows.
The duration of a security for maturity helps to inform whether assessments of estimated future cash ows that are higher than market value are reasonable.
The duration and extent to which the amortised cost exceeds fair value.
This factor provides an indication of how the contractual cash ows and effective interest rate of a financial asset compares with the implicit market estimate of cash ows and the risk attaching to a fair value measurement.
The length of time for which that level of difference has been in place may also provide further evidence as to whether the market assessment implies an impairment loss has arisen.
The financial condition and prospects of the issuer or other observable conditions that indicate the investment may be impaired.
If a loss event that will have a detrimental effect on cash ows is identied an impairment loss in the income statement is recognised.
The loss recognised is determined as the difference between the book cost and the fair value of the relevant impaired securities.
This loss comprises the effect of the expected loss of contractual cash ows and any additional market-price-driven temporary reductions in values.
For Jacksons residential mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, all of which are classied as available-for-sale, the model used to analyse cash ows, begins with the current delinquency experience of the underlying collateral pool for the structure, by applying assumptions about how much of the currently delinquent loans will eventually default, and multiplying this by an assumed loss severity.
Additional factors are applied to anticipate ageing effect.
After applying a cash ow simulation an indication is obtained as to whether or not the security has suffered, or is anticipated to suffer, contractual principal or interest payment shortfall.
If a shortfall applies an impairment charge is recorded.
The difference between the fair value and book cost for unimpaired securities accounted for as available-for-sale, is accounted for as unrealised gains or losses, with the movements in the accounting period being accounted for in other comprehensive income.
The Groups review of fair value involves several criteria, including economic conditions, credit loss experience, other issuer-specic developments and future cash ows.
These assessments are based on the best available information at the time.
Factors such as market liquidity, the widening of bid ask spreads and a change in cash ow assumptions can contribute to future price volatility.
If actual experience differs negatively from the assumptions and other considerations used in the consolidated financial statements, unrealised losses currently in equity may be recognised in the income statement in future periods.
The preceding note in this section provides explanation on how fair value is determined when the markets for the financial investments are not active.
Further, additional details on the impairments of the available-for-sale securities of Jackson are described in notes D3 and G5.
Assets held at amortised cost Financial assets classied as loans and receivables under IAS 39 are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Certain mortgage loans of the UK insurance operations have been designated at fair value through profit and loss as this loan portfolio is managed and evaluated on a fair value basis and these are included within loans in the balance sheet.
The loans and receivables include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits and loans to policyholders.
In estimating future cash ows, the Group looks at the expected cash ows of the assets and applies historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks that has been adjusted for conditions in the historical loss experience which no longer exist or for conditions that are expected to arise.
The estimated future cash ows are discounted using the financial assets original or variable effective interest rate and exclude credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The risks inherent in reviewing the impairment of any investment include the risk that market results may differ from expectations: facts and circumstances may change in the future and differ from estimates and assumptions: or the Group may later decide to sell the asset as a result of changed circumstances.
164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A3: CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED Insurance contracts Product classification IFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classied as either insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of insurance risk transferred.
Insurance risk is a pre-existing risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the contract holder to the contract issuer.
If significant insurance risk is transferred by the contract then it is classied as an insurance contract.
Contracts that transfer financial risk but not significant insurance risk are termed investment contracts.
Furthermore, some contracts, both insurance and investment, contain discretionary participating features representing the contractual right to receive additional benets as a supplement to guaranteed benets: a that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contract benets: b whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the insurer: and c that are contractually based on asset or fund performance, as discussed in IFRS 4.
Accordingly, insurers must perform a product classication exercise across their portfolio of contracts issued to determine the allocation to these various categories.
IFRS 4 permits the continued usage of previously applied GAAP for insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
Except for UK regulated with-profits funds, as described subsequently, this basis has been applied by the Group.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract.
Valuation assumptions i Contracts of with-profits funds The Groups insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features are primarily with-profits and other protection type policies.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, the contract liabilities are valued by reference to the UK Financial Services Authoritys FSA realistic basis.
In aggregate, this basis has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
The basis of determining liabilities for the Groups with-profits business has little or no effect on the results attributable to shareholders.
This is because movements on liabilities of the with-profits funds are absorbed by the unallocated surplus.
Except through indirect effects, or in remote circumstances as described below, changes to liability assumptions are therefore reected in the carrying value of the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability rather than shareholders equity.
A detailed explanation of the basis of liability measurement is contained in note D2 g ii.
The Groups other with-profits contracts are written in with-profits funds that operate in some of the Groups Asian operations.
The liabilities for these contracts and those of Prudential Annuities Limited, which is a subsidiary company of the PAC with-profits funds, are determined differently.
For these contracts the liabilities are estimated using actuarial methods based on assumptions relating to premiums, interest rates, investment returns, expenses, mortality and surrenders.
The assumptions to which the estimation of these reserves is particularly sensitive are: the interest rate used to discount the provision and the assumed future mortality experience of policyholders.
For liabilities determined using the basis described above for UK regulated with-profits funds, and the other liabilities described in the preceding paragraph, changes in estimates arising from the likely range of possible changes in underlying key assumptions have no direct impact on the reported profit.
This lack of sensitivity reects the with-profits fund structure, basis of distribution, and the application of previous GAAP to the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as permitted by IFRS 4.
Changes in liabilities of these contracts that are caused by altered estimates are absorbed by the unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds with no direct effect on shareholders equity.
The Companys obligations and more detail on such circumstances are described in note H14.
ii Other contracts Contracts, other than those of with-profits funds, are written in shareholder-backed operations of the Group.
The significant shareholder-backed product groupings and the factors that may signicantly affect IFRS results due to experience against assumptions or changes of assumptions vary signicantly between business units.
For some types of business the effect of changes in assumptions may be significant, whilst for others, due to the nature of the product, assumption setting may be of less signicance.
The nature of the products and the signicance of assumptions are discussed in notes D2, D3 and D4.
From the perspective of shareholder results the key sensitivity relates to the assumption for allowance for credit risk for UK annuity business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 165 Jackson Jackson offers individual xed annuities, xed index annuities, immediate annuities, variable annuities, individual and variable life insurance and institutional products.
With the exception of institutional products and an incidental amount of business for annuity certain contracts, which are accounted for as investment contracts under IAS 39, all of Jacksons contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4 as insurance contracts by applying US GAAP, the previous GAAP used before IFRS adoption.
The accounting requirements under these standards and the effect of changes in valuation assumptions are considered below for xed annuity, variable annuity and traditional life insurance contracts.
Fixed annuity contracts, which are investment contracts under US GAAP terminology, are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benets.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts, namely deferred income, any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract, and any premium deficiency, i. e. any probable future loss on the contract.
These types of contracts contain considerable interest rate guarantee features.
Notwithstanding the accompanying market risk exposure, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of Jacksons xed annuity products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement.
Variable annuity contracts written by Jackson may provide for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal benefit features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benets are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benets and fees under best estimate assumptions.
For variable annuity business the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns, which for 2010 and 2009 was 8.4 per cent per annum after deduction of external fund management fees determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Under the mean reversion methodology, projected returns over the next five years are exed subject to capping so that, combined with the actual rates of return for the current and the previous two years the 8.4 per cent rate is maintained.
The projected rates of return are capped at no more than 15 per cent for each of the next five years.
Further details are explained in note D3 g. These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income with consequential impact on the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs as described below and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benets are determined using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and the guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
This reects the principally spread and fee-based nature of Jacksons business.
Asian operations The insurance products written in the Groups Asian operations principally cover with-profits business, unit-linked business, and other non-participating business.
The results of with-profits business are relatively insensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement of policyholder liabilities.
As for the UK business, this feature arises because unallocated surplus is accounted for by the Group as a liability.
The results of Asian unit-linked business are also relatively insensitive to changes in estimates or assumptions.
The remaining non-participating business in Asia has some limited sensitivity to interest rates.
Further details are provided in D4 j.
Deferred acquisition costs significant costs are incurred in connection with acquiring new insurance business.
Except for acquisition costs of with-profits contracts of the UK regulated with-profits funds, which are accounted for under the realistic FSA regime as described in note A4, these costs, which vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of new business, are capitalised and amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
The recoverability of the asset is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
To the extent that the future margins differ from those anticipated, then an adjustment to the carrying value of the deferred acquisition cost asset will be necessary.
The deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is of most relevance to the Groups results for shareholder-nanced long-term business of Jackson and Asian operations.
The majority of the UK shareholder-backed business is for individual and group annuity business where the incidence of acquisition costs is negligible.
Jackson For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on the annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of Jacksons actual industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed mortality studies.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns as described above.
The level of acquisition costs carried in the statement of financial position is also sensitive to unrealised valuation movements on debt securities held to back the liabilities and solvency capital.
Further details are explained in notes D3 g and H1.
166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A3: CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED Asian operations For those territories applying US GAAP, principles similar to those set out in the Jackson paragraph above are applied to the deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs.
For other Asian territories, except where the underlying reserving basis makes implicit allowance for the future fees that cover acquisition costs, the deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is consistent with Modied Statutory Basis where costs associated with the production of new business are amortised in line with the emergence of margins.
Pensions The Group applies the requirements of IAS 19, Employee benets and associated interpretations including IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, to its dened benefit pension schemes.
The principal deferred benefit pension scheme is the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
For PSPS the terms of the trust deed restrict shareholders access to any underlying surplus.
Accordingly, applying the interpretation of IFRIC 14, any underlying IAS 19 basis surplus is not recognised for IFRS reporting.
The financial position for PSPS recorded in the IFRS financial statements reects the higher of any underlying IAS 19 deficit and any obligation for deficit funding.
The economic participation in the surplus or deficits attaching to the PSPS and the smaller Scottish Amicable Pensions Scheme SAPS are shared between the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF and shareholder operations.
The economic interest reects the source of contributions over the scheme life, which in turn reects the activity of the members during their employment.
In the case of PSPS, movements in the apportionment of the financial position for PSPS between the WPSF and shareholders funds in 2010 reect the 70 30 ratio applied to the base deficit position as at 31 December 2005 but with service cost and contributions for ongoing service apportioned by reference to the cost allocation for activity of current employees.
For SAPS the ratio is estimated to be approximately 50 50 between the WPSF and shareholders funds.
Due to the inclusion of actuarial gains and losses in the income statement rather than being recognised in other comprehensive income, the results of the Group are affected by changes in interest rates for corporate bonds that affect the rate applied to discount projected pension payments, changes in mortality assumptions and changes in ination assumptions.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the losses can be relieved.
The taxation regimes applicable across the Group apply separate rules to trading and capital profits and losses.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a capital or trading nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The judgements made, and uncertainties considered, in arriving at deferred tax balances in the financial statements are discussed in note H4.
Goodwill Goodwill impairment testing requires the exercise of judgement by management as to prospective future cash ows.
Further information is disclosed in note H1.
A4: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Financial instruments other than financial instruments classified as long-term business contracts Investment classification Under IAS 39, subject to specic criteria, financial instruments should be accounted for under one of the following categories: financial investments at fair value through profit and loss, financial investments held on an available-for-sale basis, financial investments held-tomaturity or loans and receivables.
Upon initial recognition, financial investments are measured at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
These IAS 39 classications have been changed by IFRS 9 Financial Investments: Classication and Measurement which is not required to be adopted until 2013 and is still subject to EU endorsement.
This standard has not been adopted by the Group in 2010.
The Group holds financial investments on the following bases: i Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss this comprises assets and liabilities designated by management as fair value through profit and loss on inception and derivatives that are held for trading.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment income.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 167 ii Financial investments on an available-for-sale basis this comprises assets that are designated by management and or do not fall into any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs.
For available-for-sale debt securities, the difference between their cost and par value is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest rate.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis in the income statement.
Except for foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities, not in functional currency, which are included in the income statement, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income i. e. outside of the income statement.
Upon disposal or impairment, accumulated unrealised gains and losses are transferred from other comprehensive income to the income statement as realised gains or losses.
iii Loans and receivables this comprises non-quoted investments that have xed or determinable payments and are not designated as fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
These investments include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits, loans to policyholders and other unsecured loans and receivables.
These investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, these investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
As permitted under IAS 39 the Group has designated certain financial assets as fair value through profit and loss as these assets are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
These assets represent all of the Groups financial assets other than the majority of loans and receivables and debt securities held by Jackson.
Debt securities held by Jackson are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The use of the fair value option is consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategies.
The Group uses the trade date method to account for regular purchases and sales of financial assets.
Use of fair values The Group uses current bid prices to value its investments with quoted prices.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using prices provided by third parties.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as a discounted cash ow technique.
Additional details are provided in note G1.
Impairments The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets not held at fair value through profit and loss is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that a loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group.
For assets designated as available-for-sale, the initial impairment is the cumulative loss which is removed from the available-for-sale reserve within equity and recognised in the income statement.
Any subsequent impairment loss is measured as the cumulative loss, less any impairment loss previously recognised.
For loans and receivables carried at amortised cost, the impairment amount is the difference between carrying value and the present value of the expected cash ows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, in subsequent periods, an impaired debt security held on an available-for-sale basis or an impaired loan or receivable recovers in value in part or in full, and this recovery can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement in part or in full.
Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce or manage investment, interest rate and currency exposures, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
The Group may designate certain derivatives as hedges.
This includes fair value hedges, cash ow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are met then the following accounting treatments are applied from the date at which the designation is made and the accompanying requisite documentation is in place: i Hedges of net investments in foreign operations the effective portion of any change in fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income i. e. outside of the income statement.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recorded in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised directly in other comprehensive income, is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
ii Fair value hedges movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement.
iii Cash ow hedges the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash ow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income i. e. outside of the income statement.
Movements in fair value relating to the ineffective portion are booked in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are recorded in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A4: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED All derivatives that do not meet the relevant hedging criteria are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
The primary areas of the Groups continuing operations where derivative instruments are held are the UK with-profits funds and annuity business, and Jackson.
For the Groups continuing operations, hedge accounting under IAS 39 is not usually applied.
The exceptions, where hedge accounting has been applied in 2010 and 2009, are summarised in note G3.
For UK with-profits funds the derivative programme is undertaken as part of the efficient management of the portfolio as a whole.
As noted in section D2 value movements on the with-profits funds investments are reected in changes in asset-share liabilities to policyholders or the liability for unallocated surplus.
Shareholders profit and equity are not affected directly by value movements on the derivatives held.
For UK annuity business the derivatives are held to contribute to the matching as far as practical, of asset returns and duration with those of liabilities to policyholders.
The carrying value of these liabilities is sensitive to the return on the matching financial assets including derivatives held.
Except for the extent of minor mismatching, value movements on derivatives held for this purpose do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
For Jackson an extensive derivative programme is maintained.
Value movements on the derivatives held can be very significant in their effect on shareholder results.
The Group has chosen generally not to seek to construct the Jackson derivative programme so as to facilitate hedge accounting where theoretically possible, under IAS 39.
Further details on this aspect of the Groups financial reporting are described in note A3.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are present in host contracts issued by various Group companies, in particular for Jackson.
They are embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments and insurance contracts to create hybrid instruments.
Embedded derivatives meeting the denition of an insurance contract are accounted for under IFRS 4.
Where economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.
In addition, the Group applies the requirement of IFRS 4 to not separate and fair value surrender options embedded in host contracts and with-profits investment contracts whose strike price is either a xed amount or a xed amount plus interest.
Further details on the valuation basis for embedded derivatives attaching to Jacksons life assurance contracts are provided in note D3 g. Securities lending including repurchase agreements The Group is party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third-parties on a short-term basis.
The loaned securities are not derecognised: rather, they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classication.
The Groups policy is that collateral in excess of 100 per cent of the fair value of securities loaned is required from all securities borrowers and typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities or letters of credit.
In cases where the Group takes possession of the collateral under its securities lending programme, the collateral, and corresponding obligation to return such collateral, are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
The Group also derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash ows from the financial asset expire.
Where the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group will derecognise the financial asset where it is deemed that the Group has not retained control of the financial asset.
Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring the right to receive the cash ows of the financial assets, but does result in the Group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay the cash ows to another recipient, the financial assets are also accordingly derecognised providing all of the following conditions are met: the Group has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects the equivalent amounts from the original asset: the Group is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original asset: and the Group has an obligation to remit any cash ows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Borrowings Although initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, borrowings, excluding liabilities of consolidated collateralised debt obligations, are subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds net of related issue costs is amortised through the income statement to the date of maturity or for hybrid debt, over the expected life of the instrument.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 169 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss Consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategy and the nature of the products concerned, the Group has designated under IAS 39 classication certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss as these instruments are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
These instruments include liabilities related to consolidated collateralised debt obligations and net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
b Long-term business contracts Income statement treatment Premiums and claims Premium and annuity considerations for conventional with-profits policies and other protection type insurance policies are recognised as revenue when due.
Premiums and annuity considerations for linked policies, unitised with-profits and other investment type policies are recognised as revenue when received or, in the case of unitised or unit-linked policies, when units are issued.
These amounts exclude UK premium taxes and similar duties where Prudential collects and settles taxes borne by the customer.
Policy fees charged on linked and unitised with-profits policies for mortality, asset management and policy administration are recognised as revenue when related services are provided.
Claims paid include maturities, annuities, surrenders and deaths.
Maturity claims are recorded as charges on the policy maturity date.
Annuity claims are recorded when each annuity instalment becomes due for payment.
Surrenders are charged to the income statement when paid and death claims are recorded when notied.
For investment contracts which do not contain discretionary participating features, the accounting is carried out in accordance with IAS 39 to reect the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims reected as deposits and withdrawals and taken directly to the statement of financial position as movements in the financial liability balance.
Acquisition costs With the exception of costs incurred in respect of with-profits contracts valued on a realistic basis, costs of acquiring new insurance business, principally commissions, marketing and advertising costs and certain other costs associated with policy issuance and underwriting that are not reimbursed by policy charges, are specically identied and capitalised as part of deferred acquisition costs DAC, which are included as an asset in the statement of financial position.
The DAC asset in respect of insurance contracts is amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies, to the extent that the amounts are recoverable out of the margins.
Recoverability of the unamortised DAC asset is assessed at the time of policy issue and reviewed if profit margins have declined.
Under IFRS, investment contracts excluding those with discretionary participation features accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 which also offers investment management services, require the application of IAS 18 for the revenue attached to these services.
The Groups investment contracts primarily comprise certain unit-linked savings contracts in the UK and Asia and contracts with xed and guaranteed terms in the US such as guaranteed investment contracts and annuity-certains all of which offer an investment service.
Incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs relating to the investment management element of these contracts are capitalised and amortised in line with the related revenue.
If the contracts involve up-front charges, this income is also deferred and amortised through the income statement in line with contractual service provision.
UK regulated with-profits funds Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies with discretionary participating features under which the policyholders are entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
Such policies are called with-profits policies.
Prudential maintains with-profits funds within the Groups long-term business funds, which segregate the assets and liabilities and accumulate the returns related to that with-profits business.
The amounts accumulated in these with-profits funds are available to provide for future policyholder benefit provisions and for bonuses to be distributed to with-profits policyholders.
The bonuses, both annual and final, reect the right of the with-profits policyholders to participate in the financial performance of the with-profits funds.
Shareholders profits with respect to bonuses declared on with-profits business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the Board of directors.
The shareholders share currently represents one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for with-profits policies.
Annual bonuses are declared and credited each year to with-profits policies.
The annual bonuses increase policy benets and, once credited, become guaranteed.
Annual bonuses are charged to the profit and loss account in the year declared.
Final bonuses are declared each year and accrued for all policies scheduled to mature and for death benets expected to be paid during the next financial year.
Final bonuses are not guaranteed and are only paid on policies that result from claims through the death of the policyholder or maturity of the policy within the period of declaration or by concession on surrender.
No policyholder benefit provisions are recorded for future annual or final bonus declarations.
The policyholders liabilities of the regulated with-profits funds are accounted for under FRS 27.
Under FRS 27 for the UK with-profits funds: no deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax are recognised: and adjusted realistic basis liabilities instead of MSB liabilities are recognised.
170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A4: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FRS 27 realistic basis liabilities are underpinned by the FSAs Peak 2 basis of reporting.
This Peak 2 basis requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: a with-profits benets reserve WPBR : plus future policy related liabilities FPRL : plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reect future policyholder benets and other outgoings.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount is determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
The assumptions used in the stochastic models are calibrated to produce risk-free returns on each asset class.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group on a market consistent basis.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR and investment policies the Group employs and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse scenarios.
Substantial exibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reect the discretion that the Group retains in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with managements policy for with-profits funds and the disclosures made in the publicly available Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
The realistic basis liabilities representing the Peak 2 basis realistic liabilities for with-profits business included in Form 19 of the FSA regulatory returns include the element for the shareholders share of the future bonuses.
For accounting purposes under FRS 27, this latter item is reversed because, consistent with the current basis of financial reporting, shareholder transfers are recognised only on declaration.
Unallocated surplus The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
As allowed under IFRS 4, the Group has opted to continue to record unallocated surplus of with-profits funds wholly as a liability.
The annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders, is transferred to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation on investments.
Other insurance contracts i. e. contracts which contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For these contracts UK GAAP has been applied, which reects the MSB.
Under this basis the following approach applies: Other UK insurance contracts Other UK insurance contracts that contain significant insurance risk include unit-linked, annuity and other non-profit business.
For the purposes of local regulations, segregated accounts are established for linked business for which policyholder benets are wholly or partly determined by reference to specic investments or to an investment-related index.
The interest rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions for pension annuities in the course of payment are adjusted each year.
Mortality rates used in establishing policyholder benefit are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reect actual experience.
Overseas subsidiaries The assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of overseas subsidiaries are determined initially using local GAAP bases of accounting with subsequent adjustments where necessary to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Jackson The future policyholder benefit provisions for Jacksons conventional protection-type policies are determined using the net level premium method under US GAAP principles and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviations.
For non-conventional protection-type policies, the policyholder benefit provision included within policyholder liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position is the policyholder account balance.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 171 For the business of Jackson, the determination of the expected emergence of margins, against which the amortisation prole of the DAC asset is established, is dependent on certain key assumptions.
For single premium deferred annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns which, for 2010 and 2009, was 8.4 per cent per annum, implemented using a mean reversion methodology.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on fee income and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
Jackson accounts for the majority of its investment portfolio on an available-for-sale basis see investment policies above whereby unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Jackson has used shadow accounting.
Under shadow accounting, to the extent that recognition of unrealised gains or losses on available-for-sale securities causes adjustments to the carrying value and amortisation patterns of DAC and deferred income, these adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income to be consistent with the treatment of the gains or losses on the securities.
More precisely, shadow DAC adjustments reect the change in DAC that would have arisen if the assets held in the statement of financial position had been sold, crystallising unrealised gains or losses, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
Asian operations Except for the operations in Taiwan, Vietnam and Japan, the future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For the Hong Kong business, which is a branch of the PAC, and the Singapore and Malaysian operations, the valuation principles and sensitivities to changes of assumptions of conventional with-profits and other protection-type policies are similar to those described above for equivalent products written by the UK operations.
Renements to the local reserving methodology are generally treated as change in estimates, dependent on the nature of the change.
Such a renement arose in 2009 in respect of Malaysia as explained in note D4 i.
For these three operations the business written is primarily non-participating and linked business.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claim expenses.
Rates of interest used in establishing the policyholder benefit provisions vary by operation depending on the circumstances attaching to each block of business.
Where appropriate, liabilities for participating business for these three operations include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that have yet to be declared as bonuses.
Although the basis of valuation of Prudentials overseas operations is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and ABI SORP, the valuation of policyholder benefit provisions for these businesses may differ from that determined on a UK MSB for UK operations with the same features.
These differences are permitted under IFRS 4.
Liability adequacy The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance provisions to ensure that the carrying amounts of provisions less related DAC and present value of in-force business see policy on business acquisitions and disposals is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash ows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash ows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the Group seeks to reduce loss exposure by reinsuring certain levels of risk in various areas of exposure with other insurance companies or reinsurers.
An asset or liability is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position representing premiums due to, or payments due from reinsurers and the share of benets and claims recoverable from reinsurers.
The measurement of reinsurance assets is consistent with the measurement of the underlying direct insurance contracts.
The treatment of any gains or losses arising on the purchase of reinsurance contracts is dependent on the underlying accounting basis of the entity concerned amongst other things.
Investment contracts contracts which do not contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For investment contracts with discretionary participation features, the accounting basis is consistent with the accounting for similar with-profits insurance contracts.
Other investment contracts are accounted for on a basis that reects the hybrid nature of the arrangements whereby part is accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39 and the investment management service component is accounted for under IAS 18.
For those investment contracts in the US with xed and guaranteed terms, the Group uses the amortised cost model to measure the liability.
On contract inception, the liability is measured at fair value less incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs.
Remeasurement at future reporting dates is on an amortised cost basis utilising an effective interest rate methodology whereby the interest rate utilised discounts to the net carrying amount of the financial liability.
Those investment contracts without xed and guaranteed terms are designated at fair value through profit and loss because the resulting liabilities are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Fair value is based upon the fair value of the underlying assets of the fund.
Where the contract includes a surrender option its carrying value is subject to a minimum carrying value equal to its surrender value.
172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A4: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED c Other assets, liabilities, income and expenditure Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates those entities it is deemed to control.
The degree of control is determined by the ability of the Group to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benets.
Consideration is given to other factors such as potential voting rights.
The Group has consolidated special purpose entities SPEs, such as funds holding collateralised debt obligations CDOs, where evaluation of the substance of the relationship between the SPE and the Group indicates that the Group is deemed to control the SPE under IFRS.
The Group holds investments in internally and externally managed open-ended investment companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These are consolidated where the Groups percentage ownership level is 50 per cent or greater.
The Groups percentage ownership levels in these entities can uctuate from day to day according to changes in the Groups and third-party participation in the funds.
In instances where the Groups ownership of internally managed funds declines marginally below 50 per cent and, based on historical analysis and future expectations the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary, the funds continue to be consolidated as subsidiaries under IAS 27.
Where the Group exercises significant inuence or has the power to exercise significant inuence over an entity, generally through ownership of 20 per cent or more of the entitys voting rights, but does not control the entity, then this is considered to be an investment in an associate.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Groups investments in associates are recorded at the Groups share of the associates net assets including any goodwill and intangibles arising upon initial acquisition.
The carrying value of investments in associates is adjusted each year for the Groups share of the entities profit or loss.
This does not apply to investments in associates held by the Groups insurance or investment funds including the venture capital business or mutual funds and unit trusts, which as permitted by IAS 28 are carried at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are recognised using proportional consolidation whereby the Groups share of an entitys individual balances are combined line-by-line with similar items into the Group financial statements.
Other interests in entities, where significant inuence is not exercised, are carried as investments at fair value through profit and loss.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings in which Prudential has a controlling interest, using accounts drawn up to 31 December 2010 except where entities have non-coterminous year ends.
In such cases, the information consolidated is based on the accounting period of these entities and is adjusted for material changes up to 31 December.
Accordingly, the information consolidated is deemed to cover the same period for all entities throughout the Group.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences to the date control ceases.
All inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Results of asset management activities include those for managing internal funds.
Investment properties Investments in leasehold and freehold properties not for occupation by the Group, including properties under development for future use as investment properties, are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value included in the income statement.
Properties are valued annually either by the Groups qualied surveyors or by taking into consideration the advice of professional external valuers using the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS guidelines.
The RICS guidelines apply separate assumptions to the value of the land, buildings and tenancy associated with each property.
Each property is externally valued at least once every three years.
The cost of additions and renovations is capitalised and considered when estimating fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specic property.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash ow projections or recent prices in less active markets.
Leases of investment property where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases leasehold property.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where a lease has a contingent rent element, the rent is calculated in accordance with individual lease terms and charged as an expense as incurred.
Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
The largest of these schemes is the PSPS, a dened benefit scheme.
The Group also operates dened contribution schemes.
Dened contribution schemes are schemes where the Company pays contributions into a fund and the Company has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions should the assets of that fund be insufficient to pay the employee benets relating to employee service in both current and prior periods.
Dened benefit schemes are post-employment benefit plans that are not dened contribution schemes.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 173 For the Groups dened benefit schemes, if the present value of the dened benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the scheme assets, then a liability is recorded in the Groups statement of financial position.
By contrast, if the fair value of the assets exceeds the present value of the dened benefit obligation then the surplus will only be recognised if the nature of the arrangements under the trust deed, and funding arrangements between the Trustee and the Company support the availability of refunds or recoverability through agreed reductions in future contributions.
In addition, if there is a constructive obligation for the Company to pay deficit funding, this is also recognised.
The Group utilises the projected unit credit method to calculate the dened benefit obligation.
Estimated future cash ows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate, adjusted to allow for the difference in duration between the bond index and the pension liabilities where appropriate, to determine its present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The plan assets of the Groups pension schemes exclude several insurance contracts that have been issued by the Group.
These assets are excluded from plan assets in determining the pension obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the unwind of discount on liabilities at the start of the period, less the expected investment return on scheme assets at the start of the period, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses as a result of changes in assumptions or experience variances are also charged or credited to the income statement.
Contributions to the Groups dened contribution schemes are expensed when due.
Once paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Any prepayments are reected as an asset on the statement of financial position.
Share-based payments The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan for all UK and certain overseas employees.
The arrangements for distribution to employees of shares held in trust relating to share award plans and for entitlement to dividends depend upon the particular terms of each plan.
Shares held in trust relating to these plans are conditionally gifted to employees.
The compensation expense charged to the income statement is primarily based upon the fair value of the options granted, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
Vesting conditions exclude the ability of an employee to voluntarily exit a scheme and such exits are treated as an acceleration of vesting and hence a shortening of the period over which the expense is charged.
The Group revises its estimate of the number of options likely to be exercised at each statement of financial position date and adjusts the charge to the income statement accordingly.
Where the share-based payment depends upon vesting outcomes attaching to market-based performance conditions, additional modelling is performed to estimate the fair value of the awards.
No subsequent adjustment is then made to the fair value charge for awards that do not vest on account of these performance conditions not being met.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of Prudential plc shares under employee incentive plans and savingsrelated share option schemes.
None of the trusts that hold shares for employee incentive and savings plans continue to hold these shares once they are issued to employees.
The cost to the Company of acquiring these treasury shares held in trusts is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Tax The Groups UK subsidiaries each le separate tax returns.
Jackson and other foreign subsidiaries, where permitted, le consolidated income tax returns.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, where one domestic UK company is a 75 per cent owned subsidiary of another UK company or both are 75 per cent owned subsidiaries of a common parent, the companies are considered to be within the same UK tax group.
For companies within the same tax group, trading profits and losses arising in the same accounting period may be offset for purposes of determining current and deferred taxes.
Current tax expense is charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can be carried back for one year or carried forward indefinitely to be offset against profits arising from the same company.
Deferred taxes are provided under the liability method for all relevant temporary differences, being the difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and its value for tax purposes.
IAS 12, Income Taxes does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is more likely than not, that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax related to charges or credits taken to other comprehensive income is also credited or charged to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the deferred gain or loss.
The tax charge for long-term business includes tax expense on with-profits funds attributable to both the policyholders and the shareholders.
Different tax rules apply under UK law depending upon whether the business is life insurance or pension business.
Tax on the life insurance business is based on investment returns less expenses attributable to that business.
Tax on the pension business is based on the shareholders profits or losses attributable to that business.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
174 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A4: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or are substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Basis of presentation of tax charges Tax charges in the income statement reect the aggregate of the shareholder tax on the long-term business result and on the Groups other results.
Under UK Listing Authority rules, profit before tax is required to be presented.
This requirement, coupled with the fact that IFRS does not contemplate tax charges which are attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies, necessitates the reporting of total tax charges within the presented results.
The result before all taxes i. e. profit before tax as shown in the income statement represents income net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders.
Separately within the income statement, profit before tax attributable to shareholders is shown after deduction of taxes attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Tax charges on this measure of profit reect the tax charges attributable to shareholders.
In determining the tax charges attributable to shareholders, the Group has applied a methodology consistent with that previously applied under UK GAAP reecting the broad principles underlying the tax legislation of life assurance companies.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment such as owner occupied property, computer equipment and furniture and xtures, are carried at depreciated cost.
Costs including expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets are capitalised.
Depreciation is calculated and charged on a straight-line basis over an assets estimated useful life.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each statement of financial position date.
If the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount then its carrying value is written down to that recoverable amount.
Leasehold improvements to owner occupied property are depreciated over the shorter of the economic life and the life of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value.
Business acquisitions and disposals Business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting, which adjusts the net assets of the acquired company to fair value at the date of purchase.
The excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill.
Expenses related to acquiring new subsidiaries are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Should the fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of the entity exceed the acquisition consideration then this amount is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Income and expenses of acquired entities are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Income and expenses of entities sold during the period are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
The gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between sale proceeds, net of selling costs, less the net assets of the entity at the date of disposal.
For life insurance company acquisitions, the adjusted net assets include an identiable intangible asset for the present value of in-force business which represents the profits that are expected to emerge from the acquired insurance business.
The present value of in-force business is calculated using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses and is amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
The net carrying amount of insurance liabilities acquired less the value of in-force business, represents the fair value of the insurance liabilities acquired.
An intangible asset may also be recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under these contracts.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised and carried on the Group statement of financial position as an intangible asset at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment testing is conducted annually and when there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
These cash generating units reect the smallest group of assets that includes the goodwill and generates cash ows that are largely independent of the cash inows from other groups of assets.
If the carrying amount of the cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount then the goodwill is considered impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement and may not be reversed in future periods.
Acquired intangible assets Intangible assets acquired on the purchase of a subsidiary or portfolio of contracts are fair valued at acquisition and carried at cost less amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation calculated is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 175 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Rights of offset Assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements are only reported on a net basis when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Segments Under IFRS 8, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the Group Executive Committee GEC, which is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the GEC to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
The operating segments identied by the Group reect the Groups organisational structure, which is by both geography Asia, US and UK and by product line insurance operations and asset management.
Insurance operations principally comprise of products that contain both significant and insignicant elements of insurance risk.
The products are managed together and there is no distinction between these two categories other than for accounting purposes.
This segment also includes the commission earned on general insurance business and investment subsidiaries held for supporting the Groups insurance operations.
Asset management comprises both internal and third-party asset management services, inclusive of portfolio and mutual fund management, where the Group acts as an advisor, and broker-dealer activities.
The nature of the products and the managing of the business differ from the risks inherent in the insurance operations segments, and the regulatory environment of the asset management industry differs from that of the insurance operations segments.
The Groups operating segments as determined in accordance with IFRS 8, are as follows: Insurance operations Asia US Jackson UK Asset management operations M&G Asian asset management US broker dealer and asset management including Curian Prudential Capital has been incorporated into the M&G operating segment for the purposes of segment reporting.
The Groups operating segments are also its reportable segments.
The performance measure of operating segments utilised by the Company is IFRS operating profit attributable to shareholders based on longer-term investment returns.
This measure excludes the recurrent items of short-term uctuations in investment returns and the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes.
In addition, for 2010 this measure excluded costs associated with the terminated AIA transaction and gain arising upon the dilution of the Groups holding in PruHealth.
For 2009 it excluded the non-recurrent cost of hedging the Group IGD capital surplus included within short-term uctuations in investment returns and the loss on sale and the results of the Taiwan agency business during the period of ownership.
In 2010 the Company amended its presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations to exclude the net equity hedge accounting effect previously included relating principally to its variable annuity business as explained below in note A4 d. These amounts are included in short-term uctuations in investment returns.
Prior year comparatives have been amended accordingly.
There is no change to total profit for continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders arising from this altered treatment.
Operating earnings per share is based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, after tax and non-controlling interests.
Further details on the determination of the performance measure of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is provided below in note A4 d. Segment results that are reported to the GEC include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items are mainly in relation to the Group Head Ofce and Asia Regional Head Ofce.
Shareholders dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A4: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Share capital Where there is no obligation to transfer assets, shares are classied as equity.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued, is credited to share premium.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from retained earnings.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to retained earnings net of related costs.
Foreign exchange The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups presentation currency.
Accordingly, the results and financial position of foreign subsidiaries must be translated into the presentation currency of the Group from their functional currencies, i. e. the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are converted at year end exchange rates whilst all income and expenses are converted at average exchange rates where this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing on transaction dates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded as a separate component in the Statement of comprehensive income.
Foreign currency borrowings that are used to provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated at year end exchange rates and movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other foreign currency monetary items are translated at year end exchange rates with changes recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the spot rate prevailing at the time.
d Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns The Group provides supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to shareholders that distinguishes operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from other constituent elements of the total profit.
The Group uses operating profit based on longer-term investment returns to measure the performance of its operational segments.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-nanced business are based on the expected longer-term rates of return.
This reects the particular features of long-term insurance business where assets and liabilities are held for the long-term and for which the accounting basis for insurance liabilities under current IFRS is not generally conducive to demonstrating trends in underlying performance for life businesses exclusive of changes in market conditions.
In determining profit on this basis the following key elements are applied to the results of the Groups shareholder-nanced operations.
The approach to determining profit on this basis was altered in 2010 from that previously applied in 2009 in respect of the net equity hedge accounting effect for variable and xed index annuity US life business.
Comparative results have been adjusted accordingly.
The approach to determining operating profit based on longer-term investment returns reected in segment results shown in note B1 is as follows: i Debt and equity securities Longer-term investment returns comprise income and longer-term capital returns.
For debt securities the longer-term capital returns comprise two elements.
These are a risk margin reserve RMR based charge for expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term investment returns to the date when sold bonds would have otherwise matured.
The shareholder-backed operation for which the RMR charge is most significant is Jackson National Life.
For 2010 and 2009 Jackson has used the ratings resulting from the regulatory ratings detail issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC for residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS to determine the average annual RMR.
In addition, in 2010, NAIC extended the new ratings framework to commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS, which Jackson has used for 2010.
These were developed by external third parties: PIMCO for RMBS and BlackRock Solutions for CMBS, and are considered by management more relevant information for the MBS securities concerned than using ratings by Nationally Recognised Statistical Rating Organisations NRSRO.
For other securities Jackson uses ratings by NRSRO.
ii US variable and fixed index annuity business i Current treatment The following value movements for Jacksons variable and xed index annuity business are excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: Fair value movements for equity-based derivatives: Fair value movements for embedded derivatives for Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal benefit GMWB not for life and xed index annuity business, and Guaranteed Minimum Income benefit GMIB reinsurance: Movements in accounts carrying value of GMDB and GMWB for life liabilities: Fee assessment, and claim payments, in respect of guarantee liabilities: and Related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs for each of the above items.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 177 ii Change of treatment in 2010 For previous reporting of the 2009 results, all of the above items were included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns with the intention of broadly matching the impacts with two exceptions.
The exceptions were for the effect of GMIB reinsurance and movements in carrying values of free standing derivatives and embedded derivatives arising from changes in the level of observed implied equity volatility and changes in the discount rate applied from year to year.
Both of these items remain in short-term uctuations in investment returns in 2010.
Previously, for the purposes of determining operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, the charge for these features was determined using historical longer-term equity volatility levels and long-term average AA corporate bond rate curves with the movement relating to the change in difference in long-term and current rates being included in short-term uctuations as shown in note B1.
However, despite this use of longer-term equity volatility assumption levels and AA corporate bond rate curves, accounting volatility arose within the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns that was not representative of the underlying economic result.
This feature arose due to the movement in the change in the accounting values of the derivatives and Jacksons liabilities for variable and xed indexed annuity guarantees included in the operating profit.
Under IFRS, liabilities for GMDB and for life GMWB are not fair valued.
Instead, they are accounted for under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic 944-80, Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1.
This accounting basis produces a distorting accounting effect on the operating profit that is not representative of the true economics of Jacksons hedging programme.
Over the long term the impact of this accounting distortion should cumulatively net out to a broadly neutral effect, but in the short term the operating profit can be highly volatile.
The recent growth in Jacksons variable annuity business had resulted in this short-term effect having a greater impact on the Group operating profit than in prior years.
Further, these accounting mismatches are magnied in periods of significant market movements.
These factors have prompted a reassessment of the presentation of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The following items have been reclassied from operating profit to short-term uctuations in investment returns: The fair value movement in free standing hedging derivatives, excluding the impact of the difference between longer-term and current period implied equity volatility levels: The movement in liabilities for those embedded derivative liabilities which are fair valued in accordance with IFRS, primarily GMWB not for life and xed index annuity business, excluding the impacts of the differences between longer-term and current period equity volatility and incorporating 10-year average yield curves, in lieu of current period yield curves: Movements in IFRS basis guarantee liabilities for GMWB for life, being those policies where a minimum annual withdrawal is permitted for the duration of the policyholders life subject to certain conditions, and GMDB business for which, under the US GAAP rules applied under IFRS, the reserving methodology under US GAAP principles generally gives rise to a muted impact of current period market movements: Fee assessment, and claims payments, in respect of guarantee liabilities: and Related changes to the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs for each of the above items.
The change reects managements IFRS 8 segment measure.
Within the supplementary analysis of profit, the change is presentational only.
It has no impact on profit before tax or shareholders equity.
The impact of this change is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Previous basis Change Revised basis Previous basis Change Revised basis Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Jackson 466 367 833 459 159 618 Rest of Group 1,108 1,108 946 946 Total 1,574 367 1,941 1,405 159 1,564 Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 244 367 123 36 159 123 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and loss on dened benefit pension schemes 10 10 74 74 Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 377 Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth 30 30 Loss on sale and results of Taiwan agency business 621 621 profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 1,461 1,461 746 746 178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A4: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED US operations Embedded derivatives for variable annuity guarantee features The Guaranteed Minimum Income benefit GMIB liability, which is fully reinsured, subject to a deductible and annual claim limits, is accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic 944-80 Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1 under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP.
As the corresponding reinsurance asset is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39 and the asset is therefore recognised at fair value.
As the GMIB benefit is economically reinsured the mark to market element of the reinsurance asset is included as a component of short-term uctuations in investment returns.
iii Derivative value movements Derivative value movements are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Non-equity based derivatives are primarily held by Jackson as part of a broadly-based hedging programme for features of Jacksons bond portfolio for which value movements are booked in the statement of comprehensive income rather than the income statement and product liabilities for which US GAAP accounting as grandfathered under IFRS 4 does not reect the economic features being hedged.
Value movements for Jacksons equity-based derivatives and variable and xed index annuity product embedded derivatives were in prior periods included in operating profits based on longer-term investment returns.
In 2010 these value movements, which are variable in nature, have been included in short-term uctuations and 2009 comparatives have been adjusted accordingly.
There are two exceptions to the basis described above in sections a to c for determining operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
These are for: Unit-linked and US variable annuity business.
For such business the policyholder unit liabilities are directly reective of the asset value movements.
Accordingly all asset value movements are recorded in the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Assets covering non-participating business liabilities that are interest rate sensitive.
For UK annuity business policyholder liabilities are determined by reference to current interest rates.
The value movements of the assets covering liabilities are closely correlated with the related change in liabilities.
Accordingly asset value movements are recorded within the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Policyholder liabilities include a margin for credit risk.
Variations between actual and best estimate expected impairments are recorded as a component of short-term uctuations in investment returns.
iv Other liabilities to policyholders and embedded derivatives for product guarantees Under IFRS, the degree to which the carrying values of liabilities to policyholders are sensitive to current market conditions varies between territories depending upon the nature of the grandfathered measurement basis.
In general, in those instances where the liabilities are particularly sensitive to routine changes in market conditions, the accounting basis is such that the impact of market movements on the assets and liabilities is broadly equivalent in the income statement, and operating profit based on longer-term investments returns is not distorted.
In these circumstances, there is no need for the movement in the liability to be bifurcated between the elements that relate to longer-term market conditions and short-term effects.
However, some types of business movements in liabilities do require bifurcation to ensure that at the net level i. e. after allocated investment return and change for policyholder benets the operating result reects longer-term market returns.
Examples where such bifurcation is necessary are: a Asia Vietnamese participating business For the participating business in Vietnam the liabilities include policyholders interest in investment appreciation and other surplus.
Bonuses paid in a reporting period and accrued policyholders interest in investment appreciation and other surpluses primarily reect the level of realised investment gains above contract specic hurdle levels.
For this business, operating profit based on longer-term investment returns includes the aggregate of longer-term returns on the relevant investments, a credit or charge equal to movements on the liability for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains net of any recovery of prior deficits on the participating pool, less amortisation over five years of current and prior movements on such credits or charges.
The overall purpose of these adjustments is to ensure that investment returns included in operating results equal longer-term returns but that in any one reporting period movements on liabilities to policyholders caused by investment returns are substantially matched in the presentation of the supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to policyholders.
Non-participating business Liabilities are bifurcated so that the total movement in the carrying value of liabilities is split between that which is included in operating results based on longer-term investment returns, and the residual element for the effect of using year end rates is included in short-term uctuations and in the income statement.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 179 Guaranteed Minimum Death benefit GMDB product features For unhedged GMDB liabilities accounted for under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP, such as in the Japanese business, the change in carrying value is determined under FASB ASC Subtopic 944-80 Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1, which partially reects changes in market conditions.
Under the Companys segmental basis of reporting the operating profit reects the change in liability based on longer-term market conditions with the difference between the charge to the operating result and the movement reected in the total result included in short-term uctuations in investment returns.
b UK shareholder-backed annuity business With one exception, the operating result based on longer-term investment returns reects the impact of all value movements on policyholder liabilities for annuity business in PRIL and the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
The exception is for the impact on credit risk provisioning of actual downgrades during the period.
As this feature arises due to short-term market conditions, the effect of downgrades, if any, in a particular period, on the overall provisions for credit risk is included in the category of short-term uctuations in investment returns.
The effects of other changes to credit risk provisioning are included in the operating result, as is the net effect of changes to the valuation rate of interest due to portfolio rebalancing to align more closely with management benchmark.
e Fund management and other non-insurance businesses For these businesses, the particular features applicable for life assurance noted above do not apply.
For these businesses it is inappropriate to include returns in the operating result on the basis described above.
Instead, it is appropriate to generally include realised gains and losses including impairments in the operating result with unrealised gains and losses being included in short-term uctuations.
For this purpose impairments are calculated as the credit loss determined by comparing the projected cash ows discounted at the original effective interest rate to the carrying value.
In some instances it may also be appropriate to amortise realised gains and losses on derivatives and other financial instruments to operating results over a time period that reects the underlying economic substance of the arrangements.
A5: NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS New accounting pronouncements The following standards, interpretations and amendments have either been adopted for the first time in 2010 or have been issued but are not yet effective in 2010, including those which have not yet been adopted in the EU.
This is not intended to be a complete list as only those standards, interpretations and amendments that are anticipated to have an impact upon the Groups financial statements have been discussed.
Accounting pronouncements adopted in 2010 Revised IFRS 3, Business combinations and Amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures The Group has applied the revised IFRS 3 and amended IAS 27 and IAS 31 from 1 January 2010.
The revised IFRS 3 and amended IAS 27 and IAS 31 are the outcomes of the second phase of the IASBs and the US Financial Accounting Standards Boards FASB joint business combination project.
The change in accounting policy as a result of the adoption of these standards has been applied prospectively.
No restatement to 2009 comparatives is required.
The more significant changes from the revised IFRS 3 include: the immediate expensing of acquisition-related costs rather than inclusion in goodwill: recognition and measurement at fair value of contingent consideration classied as financial instruments at acquisition date with subsequent changes to income: and additional items or adjustments to items recognised in the business combination are permitted to be applied retrospectively during the measurement period to reect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date.
The measurement period ends as soon as the acquirer receives the necessary information or learns that more information is not obtainable but is subject to an overall limit for one year.
The amendments to IAS 27 reect changes to the accounting for non-controlling interests known as non-controlling interests prior to the amendments.
From 1 January 2010, transactions that increase or decrease non-controlling interests without a change of control are accounted as equity transactions and therefore no goodwill is recognised.
As a consequence any gains or losses are reported directly in equity and not in the income statement.
The amendments to IAS 31 reect changes to the accounting for changes in joint control over an entity.
From 1 January 2010, when a jointly controlled entity becomes an associate of an investor, the investor shall measure at fair value any investment the investor retains in the former jointly controlled entity.
The investor shall recognise in profit or loss any difference between: a the fair value of any retained investment and any proceeds from disposing of the part interest in the jointly controlled entity: and b the carrying amount of an investment at the date when joint control is lost.
180 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A: BACKGROUND AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A5: NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS CONTINUED Previously, no explicit guidance was provided.
The adoption of revised IFRS 3 and amended IAS 27 and IAS 31 has resulted in presentational and disclosure changes in the Groups financial statements, and affected the accounting for the acquisition of United Overseas Bank UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore.
The disclosure on this acquisition is provided in note I1.
As a result of the adoption of the revised IFRS 3, the Group has expensed the UOB Life acquisition-related costs incurred of 2 million which would otherwise have been included within goodwill.
The Group has also recognised a gain of 30 million related to the change of treatment of PruHealth from a joint venture to an associate, in line with the revisions to IAS 31 set out above as described in note I2 a.
Improvements to IFRSs 2009 The 2009 annual improvements include minor changes to 12 IFRSs.
Amongst others, these include changes to IAS 17 Leases on the treatment of lease of land with an indefinite economic life and to IAS 36 Impairment of assets on the largest unit to which goodwill should be allocated being the operating segment level as dened by IFRS 8.
The Group has reviewed and adopted these changes in 2010 with no significant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions In June 2009, the IASB issued further amendments to IFRS 2 which sets out the accounting requirements for share-based payments.
These amendments claried existing guidance, in particular by specifying that an entity that receives goods or services in a share-based payment arrangement must account for those goods or services no matter which entity in the group settles the transaction and no matter whether the transaction is settled in shares or cash.
There was no impact on the Groups financial statements upon adoption of this standard.
Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement Eligible Hedged Items This amendment to IAS 39 claries how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash ows is eligible for designation should be applied in particular situations.
The adoption of this amendment had no impact on the Groups designated IAS 39 hedges.
Accounting pronouncements endorsed by the EU but not yet effective The following accounting pronouncements potentially relevant to the Group have been issued and endorsed for use in the EU but are not mandatory for adoption for the 31 December 2010 year end.
Amendments to IAS 24, Related party disclosures The main revisions which will apply from 2011 relate to exemption for government-related entities and are therefore not applicable to the Group.
The amendment also claries and simplies the denition of a related party albeit the nature of the change is minor.
The adoption of these revisions is not expected to have any impact on the Groups related party disclosures.
Amendment to IFRIC, 14 Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement This amendment will apply from 2011 and removes an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14 relating to voluntary pension pre-payments when there is a minimum funding requirement.
IFRIC 14 was amended to require an asset to be recognised for any surplus arising from voluntary pre-payment of minimum funding contributions in respect of future service.
The adoption of this amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Groups financial statements.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL A: BACKGROUND AND STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES 181 IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments In November 2009, the IFRIC issued guidance on how to account for the extinguishment of a financial liability by the issue of equity instruments.
This interpretation is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
This interpretation is not expected to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 The changes from this annual improvement which were issued in May 2010 and mostly effective from 2011 include clarification of financial instruments disclosures and of the statement of changes in equity.
The Group is in the process of evaluating the implications of these changes.
Accounting pronouncements not yet endorsed by the EU The following accounting pronouncements potentially relevant to the Group have been issued but not yet endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement In November 2009, the IASB issued a new standard which altered the classication and measurement of financial instruments.
Under the new standard only two possible classications arise, rather than the four existing classications currently available under IAS 39, and will result in all financial assets being valued at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss.
In October 2010, the IASB issued requirements on the accounting for financial liabilities.
These requirements will be added to IFRS 9 and maintain the existing amortised cost measurement for most liabilities and will require changes in fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk to be recognised in the other comprehensive income OCI section of the comprehensive income statement, rather than within profit or loss for liabilities measured at fair value.
IFRS 9 applies to financial statements for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Entities are permitted to apply the new requirements in earlier periods, however, if they do, they must also apply the requirements in IFRS 9 that relate to financial assets.
The standard is not mandatory until 1 January 2013 and is yet to be endorsed by the European Union.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of this standard.
Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures Transfers of financial assets The amendments, which were issued in October 2010 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, introduce new disclosure requirements about transfers of financial assets.
These include disclosures for financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and financial assets that are derecognised in their entity but for which the entity retains continuing involvement.
The Group is evaluating the implications of the amendments but they are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups disclosures.
Amendments to IAS 12, Income taxes On 20 December 2010, the IASB published amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets following the exposure draft issued on 10 September 2010.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
The amendments require the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from investment properties and plant, property and equipment valued at fair value on the presumption that the carrying amount of the asset will be, normally, recovered through sale.
These amendments are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
182 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS B1: SEGMENT DISCLOSURE INCOME STATEMENT The determination of the operating segments and performance measure of the operating segments of the Group are as detailed in note A4.
Further segmentation of the income segment is provided in note F1 of these financial statements.
2010 m 2009 m ASIAN OPERATIONS note ii Insurance operations: Underlying results before exceptional credit 536 353 D4 i Exceptional credit for Malaysia operations 63 Total Asian insurance operations 536 416 Development expenses 4 6 Total Asian insurance operations after development expenses 532 410 Asian asset management 72 55 Total Asian operations 604 465 US OPERATIONS notes ii, iv Jackson US insurance operations 833 618 note iv Broker-dealer and asset management 22 4 Total US operations 855 622 UK OPERATIONS note ii UK insurance operations: Long-term business 673 606 note v General insurance commission 46 51 Total UK insurance operations 719 657 M&G 284 238 Total UK operations 1,003 895 TOTAL SEGMENT PROFIT 2,462 1,982 OTHER INCOME AND EXPENDITURE Investment return and other income 30 22 Interest payable on core structural borrowings 257 209 Corporate expenditure 220 203 note viii Charge for share-based payments for Prudential schemes 3 5 Total 450 395 Solvency II implementation costs 45 note ix Restructuring costs 26 23 note i Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,941 1,564 note vi Short-term uctuations in investment returns on Shareholder-backed business 123 123 note vii Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 10 74 note x Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 I2 a Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth 30 note iii Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 621 PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS 1,461 746 Notes i Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is a supplemental measure of results and is the basis on which management regularly review the performance of the Groups segments as defined by IFRS 8.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-financed business are based on expected long-term rates of return as discussed in note A4.
The expected long-term rates of return are intended to reflect historical real rates of return and, where appropriate, current inflation expectations adjusted for consensus economic and investment forecasts.
The most significant operation that requires adjustment for the difference between actual and long-term investment returns is Jackson.
The amounts included in operating results for long-term capital returns for Jacksons debt securities comprise two Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 183 components.
These are a risk margin reserve based charge for long-term expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term results to the date when sold bonds would otherwise have matured.
Consistent with the policy of including longer-term investment returns in the measure of operating profit, movements in policyholder liabilities are also, where appropriate, delineated between amounts included in operating profits and movements arising from short-term market conditions, which are recorded in short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
The presentation of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns has been revised in 2010 and the 2009 comparatives have been amended accordingly see note iv.
ii Effect of changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of determining life assurance liabilities.
The results of the Groups long-term business operations are affected by changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of preparation.
These are described in notes D2 i, D3 i and D4 i. iii Sale of Taiwan agency business.
In order to facilitate comparisons of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns that reflect the Groups retained operations, the results attributable to the Taiwan business for which the sale process was completed in June 2009 are included separately within the segmental analysis of profit for 2009. iv Jackson operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
The Group has amended the presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations to remove net equity hedge accounting effect incorporating related amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and include it in short-term fluctuations.
The 2009 comparatives have been amended accordingly.
The effect of this change is explained note A4 d ii.
IFRS basis operating profits for US operations include the following amounts net of related change in amortisation of deferred acquisition costs, where applicable so as to derive longer-term investment returns.
2010 m 2009 m Debt securities: Amortisation of interest related realised gains and losses 63 47 Risk margin reserve charge for longer-term credit related losses see below 55 60 Equity type investments: Longer-term returns 8 69 The risk margin reserve RMR charge for longer-term credit related losses included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for 2010 is based on an average annual RMR of 26 basis points 2009: 27 basis points on average book values of US $44.2 billion for the year as shown below.
2010 2009 Average Annual expected Average Annual expected book losses book losses Moodys rating category or equivalent under NAIC value RMR value RMR ratings of MBS US $m % US $m m US $m % US $m m A3 or higher 20,622 0.06 12 8 19,509 0.03 5 3 Baa1, 2, 3 20,785 0.26 53 34 21,072 0.23 47 30 Ba1, 2, 3 1,935 1.04 20 13 2,035 1.13 23 15 B1, 2, 3 500 2.99 15 10 594 2.86 17 11 Below B3 321 3.88 13 8 691 3.91 27 17 Total 44,163 0.26 113 73 43,901 0.27 119 76 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition 28 18 25 16 costs see below Risk margin reserve charge to operating profit for longer-term credit related losses 85 55 94 60 For the period ended 31 December 2010, Jackson has continued the practice commenced in the second half of 2009 in relation to RMBS and for 2010 for CMBS to determine the risk margin charge included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns using the regulatory rating as determined by third parties: PIMCO for RMBS and BlackRock Solutions for CMBS on behalf of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
See note A4 d for further information.
The longer-term rates of return for equity-type investments are currently based on spreads over 10 year US treasury rates of 400 to 600 basis points.
The longer-term rates of return for equity-type investments ranged from 6.5 per cent to 7.9 per cent at 31 December 2010 and 6.7 per cent to 7.4 per cent at 31 December 2009 depending on the type of investments.
Consistent with the basis of measurement of insurance assets and liabilities for Jacksons IFRS results, the charges and credits to operating profits based on longer-term investment returns are partially offset by related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
v UK operations transferred its general insurance business to Churchill in 2002, with general insurance commission representing the commission receivable net of expenses for Prudential-branded general insurance products as part of this arrangement.
184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B1: SEGMENT DISCLOSURE INCOME STATEMENT CONTINUED vi Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business.
2010 m 2009 m Insurance operations: Asia 114 31 US 378 132 UK 116 108 Other operations: IGD hedge costs 235 Other 25 105 25 130 Total 123 123 General overview of defaults The Group incurred defaults of nil in 2010 2009: 11 million on its debt securities portfolio.
The defaults of 11 million in 2009 were experienced by the UK Shareholder-backed annuity business.
Asian insurance operations The fluctuations for Asian insurance operations in 2010 of 114 million primarily reflect unrealised gains on the debt securities held by shareholders funds, as well as a 30 million unrealised gain on the Groups 8.66 per cent stake in China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan.
For 2009, the gain of 31 million primarily relate to strong market performance in Taiwan and Japan partially offset by the fall in the Vietnamese bond markets.
US insurance operations The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for US insurance operations for the year comprise the following items: 2010 m 2009 m Short-term uctuations related to debt securities: Charges in the year Losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating bonds 99 6 Bond write downs 124 630 Recoveries reversals 10 5 Total charges in the year 213 631 B1 iv Less: risk margin charge included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 73 76 140 555 Interest related realised gains losses : Arising in the year 224 125 Less: amortisation gains and losses arising in current and prior years to operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 82 59 142 66 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 3 75 Total short-term uctuations related to debt securities 1 414 Derivatives other than equity related : market value movements net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 15 385 Net equity hedge results based on longer-term equity volatility and interest rates net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 367 159 Equity related derivatives: volatility and interest rate normalisation net of related change to amortisation of deferred # acquisition costs 2 85 Equity type investments: actual less longer-term return net of related change to amortisation B1 iv of deferred acquisition costs 3 59 Other items net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 30 Total 378 132 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 185 The charges on debt securities of Jackson incurred in 2010 and 2009 of 213 million and 631 million respectively, comprise the following: Losses on sale of impaired and Bond deteriorating Recoveries 2010 2009 Defaults write downs bonds reversals Total Total m m m m m m Residential mortgage-backed securities Prime including agency 21 35 56 268 Alt-A 35 20 1 54 182 Sub-prime 15 2 13 49 Total residential mortgage-backed securities 71 53 1 123 499 Corporate debt securities 1 40 4 37 107 Other 52 6 5 53 25 Total 124 99 10 213 631 Within other bond write downs of 52 million 2009: 30 million, 40 million 2009: 30 million relate to Piedmont securities.
Piedmont is an investment vehicle investing in certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in the US.
The loss of 15 million 2009: gain of 385 million is for the value movement for non-equity freestanding derivatives held to manage the fixed annuity and other general account business.
Under IAS 39, unless hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
For the derivatives programme attaching to the fixed annuity and other general account business the Group has continued its approach of not seeking to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39.
This decision reflects the inherent constraints of IAS 39 for hedge accounting investments and life assurance assets and liabilities under grandfathered US GAAP under IFRS 4.
The Group has amended its presentation of equity-based derivatives and associated guarantee liabilities to remove the net equity hedge accounting effect incorporating related amortisation of deferred acquisition costs from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and include it in short-term fluctuations.
The effect of this change is explained in note A4 d ii.
# Prior to the change in the presentation of operating profit of the US insurance operations as explained in note A4 d ii, the effect of the difference in the value movements for freestanding derivatives and embedded derivatives arising from changes between longer-term and actual levels of implied equity volatility and end of period AA corporate bond yield curves was reflected in short-term fluctuations in investment return.
This normalisation reflects the use of longer-term implied equity volatility levels, and also, for embedded derivatives 10 year average AA corporate bond yield curves, in the value movement included in net equity hedge accounting effect and is unaffected by the change in the presentation of the net equity hedge accounting effect.
This volatility and interest rate normalisation of value movements for freestanding and embedded derivatives gave rise to a 2 million gain 2009: 85 million.
The net equity hedge accounting effect based on longer-term equity volatility and interest rate is as described above in note.
In addition to the items discussed above, for US insurance operations, included within the statement of comprehensive income, is an increase in net unrealised gains on debt securities classified as available-for-sale of 1,221 million 2009: reduction in net unrealised losses of 2,669 million.
Temporary market value movements do not reflect defaults or impairments.
Additional details on the movement in the value of the Jackson portfolio are included in note D3.
UK insurance operations The short-term fluctuations gain for UK insurance operations of 116 million 2009: 108 million reflected principally asset value movements, principally for shareholder-backed annuity business.
IGD hedge costs During the severe equity market conditions experienced in the first quarter of 2009 coupled with historically high equity volatility the Group entered into exceptional short-dated hedging contracts to protect against potential tail-events on the IGD capital position, in addition to the regular operational hedging programmes.
The hedge contracts expired in 2009 and have not been renewed.
Other Short-term fluctuations of other operations, in addition to the previously discussed IGD hedge costs, arise from: 2010 m 2009 m Unrealised value movements on swaps held centrally to manage Group assets and liabilities 25 28 Unrealised value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio 48 66 Unrealised value movements on investments held by other operations 2 11 25 105 186 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B1: SEGMENT DISCLOSURE INCOME STATEMENT CONTINUED vii Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2010 m 2009 m ACTUARIAL GAINS AND LOSSES Actual less expected return on scheme assets 31 23 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 5 17 Losses on changes of assumptions for scheme liabilities 41 147 15 107 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-profits sub-fund 5 47 10 60 OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES Movement in the provision for deficit funding of PSPS 48 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-profits sub-fund 34 14 Total 10 74 The actuarial gains and losses shown in the table above relate to the Scottish Amicable and M&G.
The amounts did not include actuarial gains and losses for the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS for which the Group has not recognised its interest in the schemes underlying surplus.
The losses of 41 million on change of assumptions comprise mainly the effect of a decrease in the risk discount rate partially offset by the effect of decrease in inflation rates.
Other gains and losses in 2009 related to the change in the provision for deficit funding obligation for PSPS.
Further details on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are shown in note I3.
viii Share-based payments The charge for share-based payments for Prudential schemes is for the SAYE and Group performance-related schemes.
ix Restructuring costs are incurred in the UK as part of EEV covered business 26 million and as part of central operations of nil EEV noncovered business 2009: 16 million and 7 million respectively.
x The following costs were incurred in relation to the proposed, and subsequently terminated transaction, to purchase AIA Group Limited and related rights issue.
2010 m AIG termination break fee 153 Underwriting fees 58 Costs associated with foreign exchange hedging 100 Adviser fees and other 66 TOTAL COSTS BEFORE TAX 377 Associated tax relief 93 Total costs after tax 284 Of the 377 million total costs before tax, the 100 million associated with foreign exchange hedging has been recorded within Investment return and the other 277 million has been recorded as Other expenditure within Acquisition costs and other expenditure in the consolidated income statement.
B2: EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in employee share trusts and consolidated unit-trusts and OEICs, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Groups only class of dilutive potential ordinary shares are those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
No adjustment is made if the impact is anti-dilutive overall.
Earnings per share are calculated based on earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders, after related tax and non-controlling interests.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 187 2010 Net of tax Nonand nonBasic Diluted Before tax Tax controlling controlling earnings earnings B1 F5 interests interests per share per share m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, excluding exceptional tax credit 1,941 371 5 1,565 62.0p 61.9p Exceptional tax credit 158 158 6.3p 6.3p Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,941 213 5 1,723 68.3p 68.2p Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 123 92 31 1.2p 1.2p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 10 3 7 0.3p 0.3p Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 93 284 11.3p 11.3p Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth 30 30 1.2p 1.2p Based on profit for the year from continuing operations including exceptional tax credit 1,461 25 5 1,431 56.7p 56.6p The tax charge attributable to shareholders return includes an exceptional tax credit of 158 million which primarily relates to the impact of settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities.
1 2009 Net of tax Nonand nonBasic Diluted Before tax Tax controlling controlling earnings earnings B1 F5 interests interests per share per share m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,564 374 2 1,188 47.5p 47.4p Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 123 280 1 158 6.3p 6.3p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 74 21 53 2.1p 2.1p Adjustment from loss on sale and result of Taiwan agency business 621 18 603 24.1p 24.0p Based on profit for the year from continuing operations 746 55 1 690 27.6p 27.6p Adjustments for post-tax results of discontinued operations 14 14 0.6p 0.6p Based on profit for the year 732 55 1 676 27.0p 27.0p Note 1 The Group has amended the presentation of IFRS operating profit for its US operations to remove net equity hedge accounting effect incorporating related amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and include it in short-term fluctuations.
188 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B2: EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED Number of shares A reconciliation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares used for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is set out as below: 2010 m 2009 m Weighted average shares for calculation of basic earnings per share 2,524 2,501 Shares under option at end of year 13 12 Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value on assumed option exercise 8 7 Weighted average shares for calculation of diluted earnings per share 2,529 2,506 B3: DIVIDENDS 2010 m 2009 m Dividends declared and paid in reporting period Parent company: Interim dividend 2010: 6.61p, 2009: 6.29p per share 168 159 Second interim Final dividend for prior period 2010: 13.56p, 2009: 12.91p per share 343 322 Total 511 481 As a result of shares issued in lieu of dividends of 62 million 2009: 137 million, dividends paid in cash, as set out in the consolidated cash ow statement, were 449 million 2009: 344 million.
2010 m 2009 m Parent company dividends relating to reporting period: Interim dividend 2010: 6.61p, 2009: 6.29p per share 168 159 Final second interim dividend 2010: 17.24p, 2009: 13.56p per share 439 343 Total 607 502 Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
The second interim dividend of 13.56 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2009 was paid to eligible shareholders on 27 May 2010 and the 2010 interim dividend of 6.61 pence per ordinary share was paid to eligible shareholders on 23 September 2010.
Following the Boards decision to rebase the dividend upwards and subject to shareholders approval, the 2010 final dividend of 17.24 pence per ordinary share will be paid on 26 May 2011 in sterling to shareholders on the principal and Irish branch registers at 6.00pm BST on Friday, 1 April 2011 the Record Date, and in Hong Kong dollars to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register at 4.30pm Hong Kong time on the Record Date HK Shareholders.
Holders of US American Depositary Receipts US Shareholders will be paid their dividend in US dollars on or about five days after the payment date of the dividend to shareholders on the principal register.
The dividend will be paid on or about 2 June 2011 in Singapore dollars to shareholders with shares standing to the credit of their securities accounts with The Central Depository Pte.
Limited CDP at 5.00pm Singapore time on the Record Date SG Shareholders.
The dividend payable to the HK Shareholders will be translated at the exchange rate ruling at the close of business on 8 March 2011.
The exchange rate at which the dividend payable to the SG Shareholders will be translated will be determined by CDP.
The dividend will distribute an estimated 439 million of shareholders funds.
The scrip dividend alternative is not being offered in respect of this dividend.
In its place shareholders will be offered a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 189 B4: EXCHANGE TRANSLATION Exchange movement recognised in other comprehensive income 2010 m 2009 m Asian operations 164 189 US operations 88 244 Unallocated to a segment central funds 35 227 217 206 The movements for Asian and US operations reect the application of year end exchange rates to the assets and liabilities and average exchange rates to the income statement on translation of these operations into the presentation currency of the Group.
The movement unallocated to a segment mainly reects the translation of currency borrowings and forward contracts which have been designated as a net investment hedge against the currency risk of the net investment in Jackson.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
Annual Premium Equivalents APEs are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Department of Work and Pensions DWP rebate business is classified as single recurrent business.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
The format of the tables shown above is consistent with the distinction between insurance and investment products as applied for previous financial reporting periods.
With the exception of some US institutional business, products categorised as insurance refer to those classified as contracts of long-term insurance business for regulatory reporting purposes, i. e. falling within one of the classes of insurance specified in Part II of Schedule 1 to the Regulated Activities Order under FSA regulations.
The details shown above for insurance products include contributions for contracts that are classified under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts as not containing significant insurance risk.
These products are described as investment contracts or other financial instruments under IFRS.
Contracts included in this category are primarily certain unit-linked and similar contracts written in UK insurance operations and Guaranteed Investment Contracts and similar funding agreements written in US operations.
ii Investment products referred to in the table for funds under management above are unit trust, mutual funds and similar types of retail fund management arrangements.
These are unrelated to insurance products that are classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4, as described in the preceding paragraph, although similar IFRS recognition and measurement principles apply to the acquisition costs and fees attaching to this type of business.
iii The tables above include new business for the Taiwan bank distribution operation.
New business of the Taiwan Agency business, which was sold in June 2009 as explained in note I2 b is excluded from the tables.
iv New business sales for the Groups Japanese insurance subsidiary, which ceased selling new business with effect from 15 February 2010, have been presented separately from the remainder of the Group.
v New business and market gross inflows and redemptions have been translated at the average exchange rate for the year applicable.
Funds under management at points in time are translated at the exchange rate applicable at those dates.
vi The Prudentials European operation is based in Ireland and sells products into Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man, Gibraltar, Cyprus, Malta, Belgium, Spain and UK.
192 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B6: GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION To explain more comprehensively the assets, liabilities and capital of the Groups businesses it is appropriate to provide an analysis of the Groups statement of financial position by operating segment and type of business.
The tables below aggregate the three asset management segments for ease of presentation and hence should be read in conjunction with the associated tables on asset management in note E2.
a Group statement of financial position by operating segment i Position at 31 December 2010 2010 m Asset Unallomanagecated to a Insurance operations Total ment segment Intra- 31 Dec insurance operacentral group 2010 UK US Asia operations operaeliminaGroup BY OPERATING SEGMENT D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total ASSETS Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 236 236 1,230 1,466 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 118 3,543 939 4,600 9 4,609 H1 Total 118 3,543 1,175 4,836 1,239 6,075 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 166 166 166 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 13 97 110 110 H2 Total 179 97 276 276 Total 297 3,543 1,272 5,112 1,239 6,351 H4 Deferred tax assets 214 1,391 98 1,703 123 362 2,188 H3-H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 4,633 1,241 811 6,685 999 4,159 5,761 6,082 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 11,212 26 9 11,247 11,247 Investments accounted for using the equity method 69 2 71 71 Financial investments: note d Loans 2,302 4,201 1,340 7,843 1,418 9,261 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 40,519 31,501 14,464 86,484 151 86,635 note d Debt securities 74,304 26,366 14,108 114,778 1,574 116,352 Other investments 3,998 1,199 382 5,579 59 141 5,779 Deposits 9,022 212 638 9,872 80 9,952 G1, H7, H8, note c Total investments 141,426 63,505 30,943 235,874 3,282 141 239,297 H9 Properties held for sale 254 3 257 257 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,839 232 1,601 4,672 1,436 523 6,631 TOTAL ASSETS 149,663 69,915 34,725 254,303 7,079 5,185 5,761 260,806 Note i Further segmental analysis: The non-current assets of the Group comprise goodwill, intangible assets other than DAC and present value of acquired in-force business and property, plant and equipment included within other non-investment and non-cash assets.
Items defined as financial instruments or related to insurance contracts are excluded.
Of the Groups total non-current assets at 31 December 2010 of 2,454 million 2009: 1,965 million, 1,708 million 2009: 1,444 million was held in the UK by the UK insurance operations, M&G and central operations, 131 million 2009: 112 million was held in the US and 615 million 2009: 409 million was held in Asia.
No individual country in Asia held non-current assets at the end of the year which exceeded 10 per cent of the Group total.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 193 2010 m Asset Unallomanagecated to a Insurance operations Total ment segment Intra- 31 Dec insurance operacentral group 2010 UK US Asia operations operaeliminaGroup BY OPERATING SEGMENT D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity H11 Shareholders equity 2,148 3,815 2,149 8,112 1,787 1,868 8,031 Non-controlling interests 35 5 40 4 44 Total equity 2,183 3,815 2,154 8,152 1,791 1,868 8,075 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 84,152 58,641 28,498 171,291 171,291 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary G1 participation features 25,613 119 25,732 25,732 Investment contract liabilities without G1 discretionary participation features 15,765 1,882 57 17,704 17,704 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-profits D2 g ii, H12 funds 10,187 66 10,253 10,253 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus note e of with-profits funds 135,717 60,523 28,740 224,980 224,980 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced H13 operations: Subordinated debt 2,718 2,718 Other 159 159 250 549 958 Total 159 159 250 3,267 3,676 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholderG1, H13 nanced operations 162 90 189 441 3 2,560 3,004 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 1,522 1,522 1,522 G1, H4, H14, H15 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 2,398 1,801 4,199 4,199 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,755 33 1,126 2,914 458 3,372 Deferred tax liabilities 1,738 1,776 495 4,009 5 210 4,224 Current tax liabilities 399 34 70 503 33 295 831 Accruals and deferred income 340 109 449 244 14 707 Other creditors 1,939 511 1,122 3,572 4,039 471 5,761 2,321 Provisions 442 19 61 522 157 50 729 Derivative liabilities 792 799 222 1,813 78 146 2,037 Other liabilities 276 355 437 1,068 21 40 1,129 Total 10,079 5,328 3,642 19,049 5,035 1,226 5,761 19,549 Total liabilities 147,480 66,100 32,571 246,151 5,288 7,053 5,761 252,731 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 149,663 69,915 34,725 254,303 7,079 5,185 5,761 260,806 194 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B6: GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONTINUED ii Position at 31 December 2009 2009 m Asset Unallomanagecated to a Total ment segment Intra- 31 Dec Insurance operations insurance operacentral group 2009 UK US Asia operations operaeliminaGroup BY OPERATING SEGMENT D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total ASSETS Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 80 80 1,230 1,310 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 127 3,092 822 4,041 8 4,049 H1 Total 127 3,092 902 4,121 1,238 5,359 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 124 124 124 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 9 97 106 106 H2 Total 133 97 230 230 Total 260 3,092 999 4,351 1,238 5,589 H4 Deferred tax assets 292 1,944 132 2,368 132 208 2,708 H3-H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 3,074 1,404 880 5,358 718 4,393 5,044 5,425 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 10,861 33 11 10,905 10,905 Investments accounted for using the equity method 4 2 6 6 Financial investments: note d Loans 1,815 4,319 1,207 7,341 1,413 8,754 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 37,051 20,984 11,182 69,217 137 69,354 note d Debt securities 67,772 22,831 9,984 100,587 1,164 101,751 Other investments 3,630 955 258 4,843 113 176 5,132 Deposits 11,557 454 746 12,757 63 12,820 G1, H7, H8, note c Total investments 132,690 49,576 23,390 205,656 2,890 176 208,722 H9 Properties held for sale 3 3 3 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,265 340 837 3,442 970 895 5,307 TOTAL ASSETS 138,581 56,359 26,238 221,178 5,948 5,672 5,044 227,754 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 195 2009 m Asset Unallomanagecated to a Total ment segment Intra 31 Dec Insurance operations insurance operacentral group 2009 UK US Asia operations operaeliminaGroup BY OPERATING SEGMENT D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity H11 Shareholders equity 1,939 3,011 1,462 6,412 1,659 1,800 6,271 Non-controlling interests 28 1 29 3 32 Total equity 1,967 3,011 1,463 6,441 1,662 1,800 6,303 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 77,655 46,346 21,712 145,713 145,713 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary G1 participation features 24,780 100 24,880 24,880 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary G1 participation features 13,794 1,965 46 15,805 15,805 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-profits D2 g ii, H12 funds 9,966 53 10,019 10,019 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus note e of with-profits funds 126,195 48,311 21,911 196,417 196,417 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced H13 operations: Subordinated debt 2,691 2,691 Other 154 154 549 703 Total 154 154 3,240 3,394 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholderG1, H13 nanced operations 158 203 210 571 142 2,038 2,751 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 1,284 1,284 1,284 G1, H4, H14, H15 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 2,108 1,374 3,482 3,482 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,534 47 818 3,399 410 3,809 Deferred tax liabilities 1,606 1,858 384 3,848 5 19 3,872 Current tax liabilities 426 89 85 600 35 580 1,215 Accruals and deferred income 271 105 376 209 9 594 Other creditors 726 532 760 2,018 3,292 1,346 5,044 1,612 Provisions 406 10 50 466 127 50 643 Derivative liabilities 709 461 146 1,316 49 136 1,501 Other liabilities 191 309 306 806 17 54 877 Total 8,977 4,680 2,654 16,311 4,144 2,194 5,044 17,605 Total liabilities 136,614 53,348 24,775 214,737 4,286 7,472 5,044 221,451 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 138,581 56,359 26,238 221,178 5,948 5,672 5,044 227,754 196 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B6: GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONTINUED b Group statement of financial position by business type 2010 m 2009 m Shareholder-backed business UnitAsset Unallolinked managecated to a Intra- 31 Dec 31 Dec Particiand Nonment segment group 2010 2009 pating variable linked operations central eliminaGroup Group BY BUSINESS TYPE funds annuity business E2 operations tion total total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 236 1,230 1,466 1,310 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 4,600 9 4,609 4,049 H1 Total 4,836 1,239 6,075 5,359 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 166 166 124 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 110 110 106 H2 Total 276 276 230 Total 276 4,836 1,239 6,351 5,589 H4 Deferred tax assets 109 1,594 123 362 2,188 2,708 H3-H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 2,749 651 3,285 999 4,159 5,761 6,082 5,425 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 8,993 745 1,509 11,247 10,905 Investments accounted for using the equity method 71 71 6 Financial investments: note d Loans 2,144 5,699 1,418 9,261 8,754 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 31,371 54,274 839 151 86,635 69,354 note d Debt securities 53,261 9,054 52,463 1,574 116,352 101,751 Other investments 3,887 131 1,561 59 141 5,779 5,132 Deposits 7,272 749 1,851 80 9,952 12,820 G1, H7, H8, note c Total investments 106,928 64,953 63,993 3,282 141 239,297 208,722 H9 Properties held for sale 254 3 257 3 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 1,915 1,490 1,267 1,436 523 6,631 5,307 TOTAL ASSETS 112,231 67,094 74,978 7,079 5,185 5,761 260,806 227,754 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 197 2010 m 2009 m Shareholder-backed business UnitAsset Unallolinked managecated to a Intra- 31 Dec 31 Dec Particiand Nonment segment group 2010 2009 pating variable linked operations central eliminaGroup Group BY BUSINESS TYPE funds annuity business E2 operations tion total total EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity H11 Shareholders equity 8,112 1,787 1,868 8,031 6,271 Non-controlling interests 35 5 4 44 32 Total equity 35 8,117 1,791 1,868 8,075 6,303 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classied as investment contracts under IFRS 4 92,544 65,598 56,585 214,727 186,398 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-profits D2g ii, H12 funds 10,253 10,253 10,019 Total policyholder liabilities and note e unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 102,797 65,598 56,585 224,980 196,417 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced H13 operations: Subordinated debt 2,718 2,718 2,691 Other 159 250 549 958 703 Total 159 250 3,267 3,676 3,394 Operational borrowings attributable G1, H13 to shareholder-nanced operations 441 3 2,560 3,004 2,751 Borrowings attributable to with-profits G1, H13 operations 1,522 1,522 1,284 Deferred tax liabilities 1,576 25 2,408 5 210 4,224 3,872 Other non-insurance liabilities 6,301 1,471 7,268 5,030 1,016 5,761 15,325 13,733 Total liabilities 112,196 67,094 66,861 5,288 7,053 5,761 252,731 221,451 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 112,231 67,094 74,978 7,079 5,185 5,761 260,806 227,754 198 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B6: GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONTINUED c Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the Groups directly held investments from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Insurance operations Total Asset Unalloinsurance Managecated to a Group UK US Asia operations ment segment total m m m m m m m AT 31 DECEMBER 2008 1 JANUARY 2009 Total investments including derivative assets 121,862 46,171 21,809 189,842 3,303 289 193,434 Less: investments held by consolidated investment funds 609 1,101 1,710 1,710 G3 Less: derivative liabilities 3,401 863 32 4,296 292 244 4,832 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 117,852 45,308 20,676 183,836 3,011 45 186,892 Net cash inow outow from operating activities 1,432 2,755 3,028 7,215 148 52 7,015 Disposal of Taiwan agency business 3,261 3,261 3,261 Realised gains losses in the year 108 529 243 664 34 4 626 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 10,623 1,581 2,326 14,530 56 43 14,517 Reclassication of property under development 131 131 131 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 12,294 3,807 1,850 17,951 170 5 17,776 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 132,690 49,576 23,390 205,656 2,890 176 208,722 Less: investments held by consolidated investment funds 1,835 718 2,553 2,553 G3 Less: derivative liabilities 709 461 146 1,316 49 136 1,501 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 130,146 49,115 22,526 201,787 2,841 40 204,668 Net cash inow from operating activities 1,329 7,306 2,167 10,802 329 120 11,251 Realised gains losses in the year 2,233 21 984 3,238 11 148 3,101 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 5,958 6,264 3,301 15,523 23 17 15,529 Dilution of PruHealth investment 56 56 56 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Ltd 1,004 1,004 1,004 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,576 13,591 7,456 30,623 363 45 30,941 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 141,426 63,505 30,943 235,874 3,282 141 239,297 Less: investments held by consolidated investment funds 912 739 1,651 1,651 G3 Less: derivative liabilities 792 799 222 1,813 78 146 2,037 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 139,722 62,706 29,982 232,410 3,204 5 235,609 The above reconciliation analyses the movement of directly held investments net of derivative liabilities.
The deduction of derivative liabilities reflects the fact that these are considered an integral part of the Groups investment portfolio and the exclusion from investments is merely a matter of required balance sheet presentation.
The analysis excludes investments held in the balance sheet as a result of the consolidation of Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs and unit trusts, as the Groups exposure is merely to its share of the value of the fund as a whole rather than to the underlying investments and other assets and liabilities.
For securities where S&P ratings are not immediately available, those produced by Moodys and then Fitch have been used as an alternative.
During 2009, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners in the US revised the regulatory ratings process for more than 20,000 residential mortgage-backed securities.
In addition, in 2010, NAIC applied the revised ratings process for commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The table above includes these securities, held by Jackson, using the regulatory ratings levels established by an external third party PIMCO.
Notes D2 d, D3 d, D4 d and E2 provide further details on the credit risks of debt securities by segment.
200 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B6: GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONTINUED ii Group exposure to holdings in asset-backed securities The Groups exposure to holdings in asset-backed securities which comprise residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS, CDO funds and other asset-backed securities ABS, at 31 December 2010 is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m SHAREHOLDER-BACKED OPERATIONS: note i UK insurance operations 1,181 2,044 note ii US insurance operations 6,135 6,376 note iii Asian insurance operations 113 59 note iv Other operations 437 326 7,866 8,805 WITH-PROFITS OPERATIONS: note i UK insurance operations 5,237 6,451 note iii Asian insurance operations 435 378 5,672 6,829 TOTAL 13,538 15,634 i UK insurance operations The UK insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2010 comprises: 2010 m 2009 m Shareholder-backed business 2010: 51% AAA, 23% AA 1,181 2,044 With-profits operations 2010: 52% AAA, 13% AA 5,237 6,451 Total 6,418 8,495 All of the 1,181 million 2009: 2,044 million exposure of the shareholder-backed business relates to the UK market, primarily to investments held by PRIL.
3,685 million of the 5,237 million 2009: 4,695 million of the 6,451 million exposure of the with-profits operations relates to exposure to the UK market while the remaining 1,552 million 2009: 1,756 million relates to exposure to the US market.
ii US insurance operations The US insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2010 comprises: 2010 m 2009 m RMBS : Sub-prime 2010: 40% AAA, 11% AA 224 194 Alt-A 2010: 15% AAA, 6% AA 415 443 Prime including agency 2010: 79% AAA, 2% AA 2,145 2,679 CMBS 2010: 36% AAA, 15% AA 2,375 2,104 CDO funds 2010: 4% AAA, 4% AA, including 1 million exposure to sub-prime 162 79 Other ABS 2010: 26% AAA, 20% AA, including 37 million exposure to sub-prime 814 877 Total 6,135 6,376 RMBS ratings refer to the rating implicit within NAIC risk-based capital valuation see note d i.
For 2010, CMBS ratings refer to the NAIC rating.
Including the Groups economic interest in Piedmont and other consolidated CDO funds.
Further details on Jacksons RMBS sub-prime and Alt-A securities are given in note D3 d. Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL B: SUMMARY STATEMENTS OF RESULTS 201 iii Asian insurance operations The Asian insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities is primarily held by the with-profits operations.
The 435 million 2009: 378 million asset-backed securities exposure of the Asian with-profits operations comprises: 2010 m 2009 m CMBS 251 91 CDO funds and other ABS 184 287 Total 435 378 The 435 million 2009: 378 million includes 341 million 2009: 228 million held by investment funds consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for those funds and includes an amount not owned by the Group with a corresponding liability of 7 million 2009: 61 million on the statement of financial position for net asset value attributable to external unit-holders in respect of these funds, which are non-recourse to the Group.
Of the 435 million, 43 per cent 2009: 378 million, 72 per cent are investments graded by Standard & Poors.
iv Other operations Other operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2010 is held by Prudential Capital and comprises: 2010 m 2009 m RMBS: Prime 2010: 96% AAA, 4% AA 197 91 CMBS 2010: 30% AAA, 23% AA 184 193 CDO funds and other ABS all without sub-prime exposure 2010: 98% AAA 56 42 Total 437 326 iii Loans Information on the credit quality of the portfolio of loans, which almost wholly is for amounts which are neither past due or impaired is shown in notes D2, D3, D4 and E2.
Details of allowances for loans, losses and amounts past due are shown in notes G1 and G2.
No additional analysis is provided of the element of loans and receivables that were neither past due nor impaired from those of the total portfolio on the grounds of the immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired element and the total portfolio.
202 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B: SUMMARY OF RESULTS CONTINUED B6: GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONTINUED e Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of the Group from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Insurance operations UK US Asia Total m m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 115,961 45,361 21,069 182,391 Premiums  Surrenders 3,971 3,255 1,201 8,427 Maturities Deaths 7,239 733 342 8,314 Net ows 4,343 5,189 2,264 3,110 Shareholders transfers post-tax 202 20 222 Changes in reserving basis in Malaysia 63 63 Assumption changes shareholder-backed business 46 4 50 Investment-related items and other movements 14,118 2,986 4,242 21,346 Foreign exchange translation differences 707 5,225 2,069 6,587 Disposal of Taiwan agency business 3,508 3,508 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 126,195 48,311 21,911 196,417 Comprising Policyholder liability 116,229 48,311 21,858 186,398 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 9,966 53 10,019 Premiums 7,890 11,735 4,308 23,933 Surrenders 3,779 3,598 2,241 9,618 Maturities Deaths 7,303 769 498 8,570 Net ows 3,192 7,368 1,569 5,745 Shareholders transfers post-tax 223 24 247 Assumption changes shareholder-backed business 46 19 27 Investment-related items and other movements 13,218 3,464 2,216 18,898 Foreign exchange translation differences 208 1,380 2,081 3,253 Dilution of holding in PruHealth investment 27 27 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited 968 968 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 135,717 60,523 28,740 224,980 Comprising Policyholder liability 125,530 60,523 28,674 214,727 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 10,187 66 10,253 Average policyholder liability balances 2010 120,880 54,417 25,750 201,047 2009 111,969 46,837 19,630 178,436 Adjusted for acquisition and disposals in the period and excluding unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
The items above represent the amount attributable to changes in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as a result of each of the components listed.
Premiums, surrenders and maturities deaths represent the amounts impacting policyholder liabilities and may not represent the total cash paid received for example, premiums are net of any deductions to cover acquisition costs and claims represent the policyholder liabilities released.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL C: GROUP RISK STATEMENTS MANAGEMENT 203 C: GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT a: OVERVIEW As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the management of risk lies at the heart of the Groups business.
The control procedures and systems established within the Group are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels of risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
The Groups internal control processes are detailed in the Group Governance Manual.
This is supported by the Group Risk Framework, which provides an overview of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to risk management.
Where appropriate, more detailed policies and procedures have been developed at Group and or business unit levels.
These include Group-wide mandatory policies on certain operational risks, including: health, safety, fraud, money laundering, bribery, business continuity, information security and operational security, and policies on certain financial risks.
Additional guidelines are provided for some aspects of actuarial and financial activity.
Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
The risk governance framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence: Risk management: risk oversight and independent assurance.
Primary responsibility for strategy, performance management and risk control lies with the Board, which has established the Group Risk Committee to assist in providing leadership, direction and oversight, and with the Group Chief Executive and the chief executive of each business unit.
Risk oversight is provided by Group-level risk committees, chaired by the Group Chief Risk officer or the Chief Financial officer.
Independent assurance on the Groups internal control and risk management systems is provided by the Group Audit Committee, supported by the Group-wide Internal Audit.
The Groups risk reporting framework forms an important part of the Groups business planning process.
Business units review their risks as part of the annual preparation of their business plans and review opportunities and risks against business objectives regularly with Group executive management.
Additional information on the Groups risk framework is included in the risk and capital management section of the Groups business review.
The management of the risk attached to the Groups financial instruments and insurance liabilities, together with the interrelationship with the management of capital may be summarised in the following sections.
b: GROUP RISK APPETITE The Group risk appetite framework sets out the Groups appetite for risk exposures as well as the approach to risk management and return optimisation.
The Group defines and monitors aggregate risk limits for its earnings volatility and its capital requirements based on financial and non-financial stresses.
i Earnings volatility: The objectives of the limits are to ensure that a the volatility of earnings is consistent with stakeholder expectations, b the Group has adequate earnings and cash ows to service debt, expected dividends and to withstand unexpected shocks, and c earnings and cash ows are managed properly across geographies and are consistent with the Groups funding strategies.
The two measures applied to monitor the volatility of the Groups earnings are International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating profit based on longerterm investment returns and European Embedded Value EEV operating profit based on longer-term investment returns although IFRS and EEV total profits are also considered.
ii Capital requirements: The limits aim to ensure that a the Group meets its internal economic capital requirements, b the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its business objectives, and c supervisory intervention is avoided.
The two measures applied by the Group are the EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital requirements and internal economic capital requirements.
In addition, the Group also monitors capital requirements on a local statutory basis.
Business units must establish suitable market, credit, insurance and liquidity limits that maintain financial risk exposures within the dened Group risk appetite.
The Groups risk appetite framework forms an integral part of its annual business planning cycle.
The Group Risk function monitors the Groups risk prole against the agreed limits.
Using submissions from business units, Group Risk calculates the Groups aggregated position allowing for diversication effects between business units relative to the limits implied by the risk appetite statements.
Market risk is managed such that as conditions evolve the risk prole is maintained within risk appetite.
In addition to business unit operational limits on credit risk, the Group sets counterparty risk limits at Group level.
The limits on the total Group-wide exposures to a single counterparty are specified within different credit rating categories.
Group Risk and the Group Credit Risk Committee monitor the Groups actual exposures against these limits on at least a monthly basis, escalating matters to Group Executive Risk Committee as appropriate.
204 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C: GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED c: RISK MITIGATION AND HEDGING The Group manages its actual risk prole against its tolerance of risk.
To do this, the Group maintains risk registers that include details of the identied risks and of the controls and mitigating actions employed in managing them.
Any mitigation strategies involving large transactions, such as a material derivative transaction, are subject to scrutiny at Group level before implementation.
The Group uses a range of risk management and mitigation strategies.
The most important of these include: adjusting asset portfolios to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or overweight counterparty exposures : using derivatives to hedge market risks: implementing reinsurance programmes to limit insurance risk: implementing corporate insurance programmes to limit the impact of operational risks: and revising business plans where appropriate.
i Use of derivatives In the UK business, equity exposure is incurred in the with-profits fund, and it includes a large inherited estate.
The inherited estate itself is partially protected against falls in equity markets by a derivative hedging portfolio.
In the US, to protect the shareholders against the volatility introduced by embedded options, Jackson uses both a comprehensive hedging programme and reinsurance.
Jackson makes use of the natural offsets that exist between the variable annuity guarantees and the xed index annuity book, and then uses a combination of OTC options and futures to hedge the residual risk, allowing for significant market shocks and limiting the amount of capital at risk.
Internal positions are generally netted before any external hedge positions are considered.
Jackson manages xed annuity interest rate exposure through a combination of interest rate swaps and interest rate options, to protect capital against rates rising quickly and through the contractual ability to reset crediting rates annually.
Prudential principally operates in the UK, the US, and in 13 countries in Asia.
The geographical diversity of the Groups business means that Prudential is inevitably subject to the risk of exchange rate uctuations.
The Group does not generally seek to hedge foreign currency revenues, as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
However, in cases where a surplus arising in an overseas operation supports Group capital or shareholders interest, this exposure is hedged if it is economically optimal to do so.
Currency borrowings, swaps and other derivatives are used to manage exposures.
Further details of the Groups use of derivatives are explained in note G3.
ii Asset liability management Prudential manages its assets and liabilities locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reecting the differing types of liabilities of each business unit.
Stochastic asset liability modelling is carried out locally by business units to perform dynamic solvency testing and assess capital requirements.
Reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency analysis is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the US, the UK and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation and policyholder behaviour, under a large number of possible scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over a period of time, typically 25 years, and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
This allows the identication of which extreme scenarios will have the most adverse effects and what the best estimate outcome may be.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, is then set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
This differs from a deterministic model, which would only consider the results from one carefully selected scenario.
For businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash ow analysis to create a portfolio of xed income securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits and the capital position from changing interest rates.
In the UK, the cash ow analysis is used in Prudentials annuity business while, in the US, it is used for its interest-sensitive and xed index annuities and stable value products such as Guaranteed Investment Contracts GICs.
Perfect matching is not possible, for example because of the nature of the liabilities which might include guaranteed surrender values and options for prepayment contained in the assets or the unavailability of assets with a sufciently long duration.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the expected future returns on its investments under different scenarios that best reect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time, while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this method extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
All of Prudentials investments are held either for risk management or investment purposes.
This is because almost all of the investments support policyholder or customer liabilities of one form or another.
Any assets that Prudential holds centrally that are not supporting customer liabilities are predominantly invested in short-term xed income and xed maturity securities.
The Group has contingency plans in place for a range of operational risk scenarios, including incident management and business continuity plans.
As a contingency plan for liquidity risk, the Group has arranged access to committed revolving credit facilities and committed securities lending facilities.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL C: GROUP RISK STATEMENTS MANAGEMENT 205 d: RISK EXPOSURES The Group publishes separately within Additional Information of its Group Annual Report a section on key risk factors, which discusses inherent risks in the business and trading environment.
i Market risks Market risk is the risk that arises from adverse changes in the value of, or income from, assets and changes in interest rates or exchange rates.
Equity and interest rate risk Prudential faces equity risk and interest rate risk because most of its assets are investments that are either equity type investments and subject to equity price risk, or bonds, mortgages or cash deposits, the values of which are subject to interest rate risk.
The amount of risk borne by Prudentials shareholders depends on the extent to which its customers share the investment risk through the structure of Prudentials products.
The split of Prudentials investments between equity investments and interest-sensitive instruments depends principally on the type of liabilities supported by those investments and the amount of capital Prudential has available.
The nature of some liabilities allows Prudential to invest a substantial portion of its investment funds in equity and property investments that Prudential believes produce greater returns over the long term.
On the other hand Prudential has some liabilities that contain guaranteed returns and allow instant access for example, interest-sensitive xed annuities and immediate annuities, which generally will be supported by xed income investments.
Foreign exchange risk Prudential faces foreign exchange risk, primarily because its presentation currency is pounds sterling, whereas approximately 73 per cent of Prudentials operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns, as described in note B1, for the year ended 31 December 2010, came from US and Asian operations.
The exposure relating to the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed although its impact is reduced by interest payments on foreign currency borrowings and by the adoption of average exchange rates for the translation of foreign currency revenues.
Approximately 79 per cent of the Groups IFRS basis shareholders equity at 31 December 2010 arose in Prudentials US and Asian operations 2009: approximately 77 per cent.
To mitigate the exposure of the US component there are US$2.3 billion of borrowings held centrally, which are formally designated as net investment hedges at 31 December 2010.
Net of the currency position arising from these borrowings some 61 per cent of the Groups shareholders funds are represented by net assets in currencies other than sterling.
Additional details on the market risks exposures of the UK, US and Asian insurance operations are provided in notes D2, D3 and D4, respectively.
ii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss if another party fails to meet its obligations, or fails to do so in a timely fashion.
Credit risk is the Groups most significant financial risk.
Some of Prudentials businesses, in particular Jackson, the PAC with-profits fund and Prudentials UK pension annuity business hold large amounts of interest-sensitive investments that contain credit risk on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These expected losses are considered when Prudential determines the crediting rates, deposit rates and premium rates for the products that will be supported by these assets.
The key shareholder business exposed to credit risks is Jackson.
Certain over-the-counter derivatives contain a credit risk element that is controlled through evaluation of collateral agreements and master netting agreements on interest rate and currency swaps.
Prudential is also exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
Further analysis of the credit quality of debt securities held by the Group is shown in note B6.
Additional details on the credit quality of the debt security portfolios of UK, US and Asian insurance operations are shown in notes D2, D3 and D4, respectively.
iii Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that a business, though solvent on a balance sheet basis, either does not have the financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The assets of insurers are in general relatively liquid, whilst liabilities to policyholders are mainly illiquid.
Accordingly, for insurers, the focus of managing liquidity risk concentrates on parent capital and liquidity measures.
Prudential regularly monitors and analyses its liquidity position at the Group level and performs stress tests of this position.
The liquidity of the Group is monitored on a monthly basis by comparing the predicted cash needs of the Group centre, to meet corporate and nancing costs net of expected dividends from the business units, to the liquid resources available to it.
These liquid resources include cash held and cash that could be raised through internal resources for example by reporting unencumbered bonds.
Base case and stress scenarios are reported monthly to the Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee.
The main stress is the assumption that the external nancing markets are completely closed to Prudential, so no new external funding can be obtained, and existing funding cannot be rolled over.
In addition, Group liquidity risk reports are prepared regularly.
In summary, these address the sufciency of external back-up lines, internal sources of liquidity, and monitor how external liabilities and other commitments over the next 12 months compare with internal and external sources.
Currently, the parent company has significant internal resources of liquidity which are sufficient to meet all of its foreseeable future needs without having to utilise external funding.
The Group maintains 2.1 billion of undrawn syndicated and bilateral committed banking facilities, maturing between 2011 and 2015.
206 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C: GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED d: RISK EXPOSURES CONTINUED iv Insurance risk Insurance risk is the inherent uncertainty as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
This includes adverse mortality, morbidity and persistency experience.
Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors in determining the pricing of its products and for reporting the results of its long-term business operations.
In common with other industry participants, the profitability of the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, persistency, investment performance, unit cost of administration and new business acquisition expenses.
For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its UK annuity business where, in exchange for their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, for as long as they live.
Prudential conducts extensive research into longevity risk using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudential UK assumes that current rates of mortality continuously improve over time at levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI projections as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
Prudentials persistency assumptions reect recent past experience for each relevant line of business, and any expectations of future persistency.
Where appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship, which is either assumed or historically observed, between persistency and investment returns, and for the resulting additional risk.
v Non-financial risks operational, business environment and strategic risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events.
This includes legal and regulatory compliance risk.
Business environment risk may arise from exposure to forces in the external environment that could signicantly change the fundamentals that drive the businesss overall objectives and strategy.
Strategic risk may arise from ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
Prudential is exposed to operational, business environment and strategic risk in the course of running its businesses.
Prudential processes a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory, including tax, regimes.
Prudential also has a significant number of third-party relationships that are important to the distribution and processing of its products, both as market counterparties and as business partners.
This results in reliance upon the operational performance of these outsourcing partners.
The Group uses the qualitative and quantitative analysis of operational risk exposures material to the Group to support business decision making and lessons learned activities: the ongoing improvement of the control environment: the informing of overall levels of capital held: and determination of the adequacy of Prudentials corporate insurance programme.
With regard to business environment risk, the Group has a wide-ranging programme of active and constructive engagement with governments, policymakers and regulators in our key markets and with relevant international institutions, undertaken both directly and indirectly via trade associations.
The Group has procedures in place to monitor and track political and regulatory developments.
Where appropriate, the Group provides submissions and technical input to ofcials and others, either via submissions to formal consultations or through interactions with ofcials.
With regard to strategic risk, business units and the Group Head Ofce are required to adopt a forward-looking approach to risk management by performing risk assessments as part of the annual strategic planning process.
This supports the identication of potential threats and the initiatives needed to address them, as well as competitive opportunities.
The impact on the underlying business unit and or Group-wide risk prole is also considered to ensure that strategic initiatives are within the Groups risk appetite.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL C: GROUP RISK STATEMENTS MANAGEMENT 207 e: REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regulatory capital requirements apply at an individual company level for the Groups life assurance and asset management business.
These are described in sections D5 and E3 respectively.
In addition, the Group as a whole is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the European Union EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD as implemented by the FSA in the UK.
The IGD pertains to groups whose activities are primarily concentrated in the insurance sector.
The IGD capital adequacy requirements involves aggregating surplus capital held in our regulated subsidiaries, from which Group borrowings, except those subordinated debt issues that qualify as capital, are deducted.
No credit for the benefit of diversication is permitted under this approach.
The test is passed when this aggregate number is positive: a negative result at any point in time is a notiable breach of UK regulatory requirements.
Due to the geographically diverse nature of Prudentials operations, the application of these requirements to Prudential is complex.
In particular, for many of the Groups Asian operations the assets, liabilities and capital requirements have to be recalculated based on FSA regulations as if the companies were directly subject to FSA regulation.
The FSA has established a structure for determining how much hybrid debt can count as capital which is similar to that used for banks.
It categorises capital as Tier 1 equity and preference shares, Upper Tier 2 and Lower Tier 2.
Up to 15 per cent of Tier 1 capital can be in the form of hybrid debt and is called Innovative Tier 1.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held 1,463 million 2009: 1,422 million of Innovative Tier 1 capital in the form of perpetual securities, nil 2009: nil of Upper Tier 2 and 1,255 million 2009: 1,269 million of Lower Tier 2 capital.
In addition, Jackson held 159 million of surplus notes at the end of the financial year 2010 2009: 154 million which, although the US does not have a similar capital categorisation under its regulatory framework, are akin to the FSAs Lower Tier 2 Capital and have been disclosed as such in note H13.
Further details on Group borrowings are shown in note H13.
At 31 December 2009, Prudential met the requirements of the IGD with 3.4 billion of surplus capital before allowing for the 2009 final dividend.
In addition, during 2010, Prudential met the requirements of the FSA under the IGD.
The IGD position as at 31 December 2010 will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2011 and at the time of preparation of these financial statements the surplus capital under the test was estimated to be around 4.3 billion before allowing for the 2010 final dividend giving a solvency ratio of circa 305 per cent.
The main components of the increase in IGD surplus during 2010 are: Net capital generation mainly through operating earnings in-force releases less investment in new business of 1.7 billion: Release of tax provisions of 0.2 billion: Foreign exchange movements of positive 0.1 billion: Offset by dividend payments, external nancing costs and other central costs, costs incurred in relation to the terminated AIA transaction and inadmissible assets arising on the purchase of UOBs life assurance subsidiary in Singapore.
Prudentials approach to capital allocation takes into account a range of factors, especially risk adjusted returns on capital, the impact of alternative capital measurement bases accounting, regulatory, economic and ratings agency assessments, tax efficiency, and wider strategic objectives.
Prudential optimises capital allocation across the Group by using a consistent set of capital performance metrics across all business units to ensure meaningful comparison.
Capital utilisation, return on capital and new business value creation are measured at a product level.
The use of these capital performance metrics is embedded into our decision-making processes for product design and product pricing.
Prudentials capital performance metrics are based on economic capital, which provides a view of our capital requirements across the Group, allowing for realistic diversication benets.
Economic capital also provides valuable insights into our risk prole and is used both for risk measurement and capital management.
208 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES D1: GROUP OVERVIEW a Products and classification for IFRS reporting The measurement basis of assets and liabilities of long-term business contracts is dependent upon the classication of the contracts under IFRS.
Under IFRS 4, contracts are initially classied as being either insurance contracts, if the level of insurance risk in the contracts is significant, or investment contracts, if the risk is insignicant.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are permitted to be accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
The Group has chosen to adopt this approach.
However, as an improvement to accounting policy, permitted by IFRS 4, the Group has applied the measurement principles for with-profits contracts of UK regulated entities and disclosures of the UK Standard FRS 27 from 1 January 2005.
An explanation of the provisions under FRS 27 is provided in note D2.
Under the previously applied GAAP, UK GAAP, the assets and liabilities of contracts are reported in accordance with the MSB of reporting as set out in the ABI SORP.
The insurance contracts of the Groups shareholder-backed business fall broadly into the following categories: UK insurance operations bulk and individual annuity business, written primarily by Prudential Retirement Income Limited and other categories of non-participating UK business: Jackson xed and variable annuity business and life insurance: and Prudential Corporation Asia non-participating term, whole life, and unit-linked policies, together with accident and health policies.
Investment contracts Investment contracts are further delineated under IFRS 4 between those with and without discretionary participation features.
For those contracts with discretionary participation features, IFRS 4 also permits the continued application of previously applied GAAP.
The Group has adopted this approach, again subject to the FRS 27 improvement.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract that may diverge from those previously applied.
Contracts of the Group, which are classied as investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, can be summarised as: UK certain unit-linked savings and similar contracts: Jackson GICs and funding agreements minor amounts of annuity certain contracts: and Prudential Corporation Asia minor amounts for a number of small categories of business.
The accounting for the investment contracts of UK insurance operations and Jacksons GICs and funding agreements are considered in turn below: i Certain UK unit-linked savings and similar contracts Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that it is appropriate to recognise an asset that represents the entitys contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the entity recognises the related revenue.
IAS 18 further reduces the costs potentially capable of deferral to incremental costs only.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
Deferred income reserves These are required to be established under IAS 18 with amortisation over the expected life of the contract.
The majority of the relevant UK contracts are single premium with the initial deferred income reecting the front-end load i. e. the difference between the premium paid and the amount credited to the unit fund.
Deferred income is amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
The amortisation prole is either on a straight-line basis or, if more appropriate, a further deferral of income recognition is applied.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 209 Sterling reserves Prudent provisions established for possible future expenses not covered by future margins at a policy level reecting the regulatory approach in the UK are not permitted for those contracts with insignicant insurance risk that are classied as investment contracts.
ii Jackson GICs and funding arrangements Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
The interest rate paid is xed and established when the contract is issued.
Funding agreements are of a similar nature but the interest rate may be oating, based on a rate linked to an external index.
The US GAAP accounting requirements for such contracts are very similar to those under IFRS on the amortised cost model for liability measurement.
b Concentration of risk i Business accepted The Groups exposure to life assurance risks is well diversied.
This is achieved through the geographical spread of the Groups operations and, within those operations, through a broad mix of product types.
As part of the risk management framework, the Group regularly monitors concentration of risk using a variety of risk monitoring tools including: Scenario testing and sensitivity analysis of the Group capital and profitability metrics involving IGD, Group economic capital, EEV and IFRS help identify concentrations of risks by risk types, products and business units, as well as the benets of diversication of risks.
An example of the diversication benets for Prudential is that adverse scenarios do not affect all business units in the same way, providing natural hedges within the Group.
For example, the Groups US business is sensitive to increasing interest rates, whereas, in contrast, several business units in Asia benefit from increasing rates.
Conversely, these Asian business units are sensitive towards low interest rates, whereas certain products in the US benefit from falling interest rates.
The economic capital framework also takes into account situations where factors are correlated, for example the extent of correlation between UK and US economies.
Business units are also required to disclose to the Group risk function all material risks, along with information on their severity and likelihood, and mitigating actions taken or planned.
Credit risk remains one of the largest risk exposures.
This reects the relative size of exposure in Jackson and the UK shareholder annuities business.
The Group manages concentration of credit risks by setting limits on the maximum exposure to each counterparty based on their credit ratings.
ii Ceded business The Group cedes certain business to other insurance companies.
Although the ceding of insurance does not relieve the Group of liability to its policyholders, the Group participates in such agreements for the purpose of managing its loss exposure.
The Group evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors concentration of credit risk from similar geographic regions, activities or economic characteristics of the reinsurers to minimise its exposure from reinsurer insolvencies.
Reinsurance recoverable insurance assets are not a significant component of the Groups statement of financial position and accordingly, exposure to concentrations of reinsurance risk is not significant to the Group.
At 31 December 2010, 97 per cent 2009: 98 per cent of the reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were ceded by the Groups UK and US operations, of which 90 per cent 2009: 92 per cent of the balance were from reinsurers with Standard & Poors rating Aand above.
c Guarantees Notes D2 e, D3 e and D4 e provide details of guarantee features of the Groups life assurance products.
In the UK, guarantees of the with-profits products are valued for accounting purposes on a market consistent basis for 2010 as described in section D2 g ii.
The UK business also has products with guaranteed annuity option features, mostly within SAIF, as described in section D2 e. There is little exposure to financial options and guarantees in the shareholder-backed business of the UK operations.
The US business annuity products have a variety of option and guarantee features as described in section D3 e. Jacksons derivative programme seeks to manage the exposures as described in section D3 f. The Groups exposure to guarantees was signicantly reduced during 2009 as a result of the disposal of the Taiwan agency business.
d Sensitivity of EEV basis profit and equity for market and other risks The Group prepares supplementary EEV basis financial statements for half yearly and annual publication.
These statements include sensitivity disclosures which are part of the market risk information provided to key management.
The 2010 EEV sensitivity disclosures are shown in note 15 of the EEV basis supplementary information in this Annual Report.
210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D1: GROUP OVERVIEW CONTINUED e Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to market and other risks i Overview of risks by business unit The financial and insurance assets and liabilities attaching to the Groups life assurance business are, to varying degrees, subject to market and insurance risk and other changes of experience assumptions that may have a material effect on IFRS basis profit or loss and equity.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash ows of a financial instrument or, in the case of liabilities of insurance contracts, their carrying value will uctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, namely: Currency risk: due to changes in foreign exchange rates: interest rate risk: due to changes in market interest rates: and other price risk: due to uctuations in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
Policyholder liabilities relating to the Groups life assurance businesses are also sensitive to the effects of other changes in experience, or expected future experience, such as for mortality, other insurance risk and lapse risk.
In addition, the profitability of the Groups life assurance businesses and, as described in Section E, asset management business, is indirectly affected by the performance of the assets covering policyholder liabilities and related capital.
Three key points are to be noted, namely: The Groups with-profits and unit-linked funds absorb most market risk attaching to the funds investments.
Except for second order effects, for example on asset management fees and shareholders share of cost of bonuses for with-profits business, shareholder results are not directly affected by market value movements on the assets of these funds: The Groups shareholder results are most sensitive to market risks for assets of shareholder-backed business: and The main exposures of the Groups IFRS basis results to market risk for life assurance operations on investments of shareholderbacked business are for debt securities.
The most significant items for which the IFRS basis shareholders profit or loss and equity for the Groups life assurance business is sensitive to these variables are shown in the following tables.
The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative size of the sensitivity.
Market and credit risk Type of business Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated surplus Other exposure Insurance and lapse risk UK insurance operations see also section D2 j With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk to future including Prudential subject to smoothing shareholder transfers Annuities Limited through declared bonuses SAIF sub-fund Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Asset management fees earned by M&G Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk through asset management fees Asset liability mismatch risk Shareholder-backed Credit risk Mortality experience annuity business and assumptions for Interest rate risk for longevity assets in excess of liabilities i. e. representing shareholder capital Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 211 Market and credit risk Type of business Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated surplus Other exposure Insurance and lapse risk US insurance operations see also section D3 j All business Currency risk Persistency risk Variable annuity business Net effect of market risk arising from incidence of guarantee features and variability of asset management fees offset by derivative hedging programme Fixed index annuity Derivative hedge Incidence of equity business programme to the extent participation features not fully hedged against liability and fund performance Fixed index annuities, Credit risk Spread difference Lapse risk but the effects Fixed annuities and Interest rate risk between earned rate of extreme events are GIC business and rate credited to mitigated by the use of policyholders swaption contracts These risks are reected in volatile profit or loss and shareholders equity for derivative value movements and impairment losses, and, in addition, for shareholders equity for value movements on xed income securities classied as available fo sale under IAS 39 Asian insurance operations see also section D4 j Mortality and morbidity risk All business Currency risk Persistency risk With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance subject to smoothing through declared bonuses Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance through asset management fees Non-participating Interest rate and price risk Long-term interest rates.
business 212 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D1: GROUP OVERVIEW CONTINUED ii IFRS shareholder results Exposures for market and other risk Key Group exposures Detailed analyses of sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to market and other risks are provided in notes D2 j, D3 j, D4 j and E4.
The sensitivity analyses provided show the effect on IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to changes in the relevant risk variables, all of which are reasonably possible at the relevant balance sheet date.
The IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for UK insurance operations has high potential sensitivity for changes to longevity assumptions affecting the carrying value of liabilities to policyholders for shareholder-backed annuity business.
In addition, at the total IFRS profit level the result is sensitive to temporary value movements on assets backing IFRS equity.
For Jackson at the level of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, the results are sensitive to market conditions to the extent of income earned on spread-based products not mitigated by the interest derivative programmes and second order equitybased exposure in respect of variable annuity asset management fees.
Further information is given below under the US operations section of market and credit risk.
Jacksons derivative programme is used to substantially mitigate equity market risk attaching to its equity-based products and interest rate risk associated with its spread-based products.
Movements in interest rates and credit spreads materially affect the carrying value of derivatives which are used to manage the liabilities to policyholders and backing investment assets of xed annuity and other general account business.
Combined with the use of US GAAP measurement as grandfathered under IFRS 4 for the asset and liabilities for the insurance contract liabilities, which is largely insensitive to current period market movements, the Jackson total profit i. e. including short-term uctuations in investment returns is very sensitive to market movements.
In addition to these effects the Jackson IFRS equity is sensitive to the impact of interest rate and credit spread movements on the value of xed income securities.
Movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are included as movement in equity i. e. outside the income statement.
See note D3 j for details of the hedging.
For Asian operations, the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is mainly affected by the impact of market levels on unit-linked business persistency, and other insurance risk.
At the total IFRS profit level the Asian result is affected by short-term value movements on the asset portfolio for non-linked shareholder-backed business.
M&G profits are affected primarily by movements in the growth in funds under management and by the effect of any impairment on the loan book and fair value movements on debt securities held by Prudential Capital.
Market and credit risk UK insurance operations With-profits business With-profits business Shareholder results of UK with-profits business are sensitive to market risk only through the indirect effect of investment performance on declared policyholder bonuses.
The investment assets of the PAC with-profits fund are subject to market risk.
However, changes in their carrying value, net of related changes to asset-share liabilities of with-profit contracts, affect the level of unallocated surplus of the fund.
As unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability under IFRS, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
The shareholder results of the UK with-profits fund correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses declared on the with-profits business.
This currently corresponds to one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared.
Investment performance is a key driver of bonuses, and hence the shareholders share of cost of bonuses.
Due to the smoothed basis of bonus declaration the sensitivity to investment performance in a single year is low.
However, over multiple periods it is important.
Prudential Annuities Limited PAL PAL writes annuity business, but as PAL is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund, changes in the carrying value of PALs assets and liabilities are reected in the liability for unallocated surplus which as described above, do not affect shareholder results.
Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced fund in which, apart from asset management fees, shareholders have no interest.
Accordingly, the Groups IFRS profit and equity are insensitive to the direct effects of market risk attaching to SAIFs assets and liabilities.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 213 Shareholder-backed business The factors that may signicantly affect the IFRS results of UK shareholder-backed business are the mortality experience and assumptions and credit risk attaching to the annuity business of Prudential Retirement Income Limited and the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL The assets covering PRILs liabilities are principally debt securities and other investments that are held to match the expected duration and payment characteristics of the policyholder liabilities.
These liabilities are valued for IFRS reporting purposes by applying discount rates that reect the market rates of return attaching to the covering assets.
Except to the extent of any asset liability duration mismatch which is reviewed regularly, and exposure to credit risk, the sensitivity of the Groups results to market risk for movements in the carrying value of PRILs liabilities and covering assets is broadly neutral on a net basis.
The main market risk sensitivity for PRIL arises from interest rate risk on the debt securities which substantially represent IFRS equity.
This equity comprises the net assets held within the long-term fund of the Company that cover regulatory basis liabilities that are not recognised for IFRS reporting purposes, for example contingency reserves, and shareholder capital held outside the long-term fund.
The principal items affecting the IFRS results for PRIL are mortality experience and assumptions, and credit risk.
PAC non-profit sub-fund The PAC non-profit sub-fund principally comprises annuity business previously written by Scottish Amicable Life, credit life, unitlinked and other non-participating business.
The financial assets covering the liabilities for those types of business are subject to market risk.
However, for the annuity business the same considerations as described above for PRIL apply, whilst the liabilities of the unit-linked business change in line with the matching linked assets.
Other liabilities of the PAC non-profit sub-fund are broadly insensitive to market risk.
Other shareholder-backed unit-linked business Due to the matching of policyholder liabilities to attaching asset value movements, the UK unit-linked business is not directly affected by market or credit risk.
The principal factor affecting the IFRS results is investment performance through asset management fees.
US insurance operations Jackson The IFRS basis results of Jackson are highly sensitive to market risk on the assets covering liabilities other than variable annuity business segregated in the separate accounts.
Invested assets covering liabilities other than the separate accounts and related capital comprise principally debt securities classied as available-for-sale.
Value movements for these securities are reected as movements in shareholders equity through the statement of comprehensive income.
Other invested assets and derivatives are carried at fair value with the value movements reected in the income statement.
By contrast, the IFRS insurance liabilities for business written by Jackson, by the application of grandfathered GAAP under IFRS 4, are measured on US GAAP bases which with the exception of certain items covered by the equity hedging programme, are generally insensitive to temporary changes in market conditions or the short-term returns on the attaching asset portfolios.
These differences in carrying value of debt securities, other invested assets, derivatives and insurance liabilities give rise to potentially significant volatility in the IFRS income statement and shareholders equity.
As with other shareholder-backed business the profit or loss for Jackson is presented in the Groups segmental analysis of profit as described in note B1, by distinguishing the result for the year between an operating result based on longer-term investment returns and short-term uctuations in investment returns.
In this way the most significant direct effect of market changes that have taken place to the Jackson result are separately identied.
Excluding these short-term effects, the factors that most signicantly affect the Jackson IFRS operating result based on long-term investment returns are: Variable annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders on the general account funds and the effect of market movements on fees earned on separate account funds: Fixed annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders: and Fixed index annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
In addition, the total profit for Jackson is affected by the level of impairment losses on the debt securities portfolio, net effect of market risk arising from the incidence and valuation of guarantee features, guaranteed benefit payments and equity index participation features, offset by variability of benefit related fees and equity derivative hedging performance, short-term value movements on derivatives held to manage the xed annuity and other general account business, and other temporary value movements on portfolio investments classied as fair value through profit and loss.
The Group has amended its presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations to remove the net equity hedge accounting effect and include it in short-term uctuations as explained further in note A4 d ii.
Following this change the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of the US insurance operations of 833 million for 2010 2009: 618 million excludes 367 million 2009: 159 million negative net equity hedge accounting effects, net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
The presentation of results for 2009 has been amended accordingly.
214 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D1: GROUP OVERVIEW CONTINUED Asian insurance operations For Asian with-profits business the same features apply as described above for UK with-profits business.
Similarly, as for other parts of the Group, for unit-linked business the main factor affecting IFRS basis results is investment performance through asset management fees.
The sensitivity of the IFRS basis results of the Groups Asian operations to market risk is primarily restricted to the non-participating business.
This sensitivity is primarily reected through the volatility of asset returns coupled with the fact that the accounting carrying value of liabilities to policyholders are only partially sensitive to changed market conditions.
As for UK shareholder-backed operations and Jackson, the IFRS profit is distinguished in the Groups segmental analysis so as to distinguish operating profits based on longer-term investment returns and short-term uctuations in investment returns.
Insurance and lapse risk The features described above cover the main sensitivities of IFRS profit and loss and equity for market, insurance and credit risk.
Lapse and longevity risk may also be a key determination of IFRS basis results with variable impacts.
In the UK, adverse persistency experience can affect the level of profitability from with-profits and unit-linked business.
For with-profits business in any given year, the amount represented by the shareholders share of cost of bonus may only be marginally affected.
However, altered persistency trends may affect future expected shareholder transfers.
By contrast, Group IFRS operating profit is particularly sensitive to longevity outlook that results in changes of assumption for the UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
Jackson is sensitive to lapse risk.
However, Jackson uses certain swaption derivatives to ameliorate the effect of a sharp rise in interest rates, which would be the most likely cause of a sudden change in policyholder behaviour.
In Asia, adverse persistency experience can impact the IFRS profitability of certain business written in the region.
This risk is managed at a business unit level through monthly monitoring of experience and the implementation of management actions as necessary.
These actions could include product enhancements, increased management focus on premium collection as well as other customer retention efforts.
The potential financial impact of lapses is often mitigated through the specic features of the products, e. g. surrender charges.
iii Impact of diversification on risk exposure The Group enjoys significant diversication benets.
This arises because not all risk scenarios will happen at the same time and across all geographic regions.
The Group tests the sensitivities of results to different correlation factors such as: Correlation across geographic regions Financial risk factors Non-financial risk factor Correlation across risk factors Longevity risk Expenses Persistency Other risks The effect of Group diversication is to signicantly reduce the aggregate standalone volatility risk to IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The effect is almost wholly explained by the correlations across risk types, in particular longevity risk.
f Duration of liabilities Under the terms of the Groups contracts, as for life assurance contracts generally, the contractual maturity date is the earlier of the end of the contract term, death, other insurable events or surrender.
The Group has therefore chosen to provide details of liability duration that reect the actuarially determined best estimate of the likely incidence of these factors on contract duration.
Details are shown in sections D2 k, D3 k and D4 k. In the years 2006 to 2010, claims paid on the Groups life assurance contracts including those classied as investment contracts under IFRS 4 ranged from 15 billion to 18 billion.
Indicatively, it is to be expected that, of the Groups policyholder liabilities excluding unallocated surplus at 31 December 2010 of 214.7 billion, the amounts likely to be paid in 2011 will be of a similar magnitude.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 215 D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS a Summary statement of financial position In order to reect the different types of UK business and fund structure, the statement of financial position of the UK insurance operations may be analysed by the assets and liabilities of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF, unit-linked assets and liabilities and annuity principally PRIL and other business.
The assets and liabilities of these funds and subsidiaries are shown in the table below.
94.8 billion of the 141.4 billion of investments are held by SAIF and the PAC WPSF.
Shareholders are exposed only indirectly to value movements on these assets.
UK insurance PAC with-profits sub-fund note i Other funds and subsidiaries operations Scottish UnitAmicable Excluding Prudential linked Annuity Insurance Prudential Annuities assets and other Fund Annuities Limited Total and long-term 2010 2009 note ii Limited note iii note iv liabilities business Total Total Total m m m m m m m m m ASSETS Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 118 118 118 127 118 118 118 127 Intangible assets attributable to PAC with-profits fund: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 166 166 166 124 Deferred acquisition costs 13 13 13 9 179 179 179 133 Total 179 179 118 118 297 260 Deferred tax assets 2 93 14 107 105 105 214 292 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 412 1,810 322 2,132 557 1,532 2,089 4,633 3,074 Investments of long-term business and other operations: note viii Investment properties 673 7,589 731 8,320 745 1,474 2,219 11,212 10,861 Investments accounted for using the equity method 69 69 69 4 Financial investments: note v Loans 153 979 138 1,117 1,032 1,032 2,302 1,815 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 3,105 23,716 229 23,945 13,434 35 13,469 40,519 37,051 note D2c Debt securities 4,704 29,013 12,785 41,798 6,045 21,757 27,802 74,304 67,772 note vi Other investments 276 3,241 178 3,419 73 230 303 3,998 3,630 Deposits 793 6,038 435 6,473 498 1,258 1,756 9,022 11,557 note b Total investments 9,704 70,576 14,496 85,072 20,795 25,855 46,650 141,426 132,690 Properties held for sale 254 254 254 Cash and cash equivalents 170 1,127 82 1,209 1,153 307 1,460 2,839 2,265 TOTAL ASSETS 10,288 74,039 14,914 88,953 22,505 27,917 50,422 149,663 138,581 216 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED UK insurance PAC with-profits sub-fund note i Other funds and subsidiaries operations Scottish UnitAmicable Excluding Prudential linked Annuity Insurance Prudential Annuities assets and other Fund Annuities Limited Total and long-term 2010 2009 note ii Limited note iii note iv liabilities business Total Total Total m m m m m m m m m EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Shareholders equity 2,148 2,148 2,148 1,939 Non-controlling interests 35 35 35 28 Total equity 35 35 2,148 2,148 2,183 1,967 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classied as investment contracts under IFRS 4 9,759 59,545 12,282 71,827 21,671 22,273 43,944 125,530 116,229 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reecting application of realistic provisions for UK regulated withnote vii profits funds 8,363 1,824 10,187 10,187 9,966 Total 9,759 67,908 14,106 82,014 21,671 22,273 43,944 135,717 126,195 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-nanced operations 162 162 162 158 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 118 1,404 1,404 1,522 1,284 Deferred tax liabilities 80 903 252 1,155 503 503 1,738 1,606 Other non-insurance liabilities 331 3,789 556 4,345 834 2,831 3,665 8,341 7,371 Total liabilities 10,288 74,004 14,914 88,918 22,505 25,769 48,274 147,480 136,614 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,288 74,039 14,914 88,953 22,505 27,917 50,422 149,663 138,581 Notes i For the purposes of this table and subsequent explanation, references to the PAC WPSF also include, for convenience, the amounts attaching to the Defined Charges Participating Sub-fund, which comprises 3.5 per cent of the total assets of WPSF and includes the with-profits annuity business transferred to Prudential from the Equitable Life Assurance Society on 1 December 2007 with assets of approximately 1.7 billion.
Profits to shareholders on this with-profits annuity business emerge on a charges less expenses basis and policyholders are entitled to 100 per cent of the investment earnings.
ii SAIF is a separate sub-fund within the PAC long-term business fund.
iii Wholly-owned subsidiary of the PAC WPSF that writes annuity business.
iv Excluding policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
v The loans of the Groups UK insurance operations of 2,302 million 2009: 1,815 million comprise loans held by the PAC WPSF of 1,270 million 2009: 1,106 million and loans held by shareholder-backed business of 1,032 million 2009: 709 million.
The loans held by the PAC WPSF comprise mortgage loans of 256 million, policy loans of 21 million and other loans of 993 million 2009: 145 million, 24 million and 937 million respectively.
The mortgage loans are collateralised by properties.
Other loans held by the PAC with-profits fund are all commercial loans and comprise mainly syndicated loans.
The loans held by the UK shareholder-backed business comprise mortgage loans collateralised by properties of 1,027 million 2009: 702 million and other loans of 5 million 2009: 7 million.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 217 vi Other investments comprise: 2010 m 2009 m note G3 Derivative assets 926 910 Partnerships in investment pools and other 3,072 2,720 3,998 3,630 In the UK, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce equity and credit risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and to facilitate efficient portfolio management.
After derivative liabilities of 792 million 2009: 709 million, which are also included in the statement of financial position, the overall derivative position was a net asset of 134 million 2009: 201 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise mainly investments held by the PAC with-profits fund.
These investments are primarily venture fund investments and investment in property funds and limited partnerships.
vii Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies under which the policyholders are entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations, subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
The bonuses, both annual and final, reflect the right of the with-profits policyholders to participate in the financial performance of the with-profits funds.
Shareholders profits with respect to bonuses declared on with-profits business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the PAC Board of directors.
The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
viii Investment properties At 31 December 2010, the Groups UK insurance operations had 11,212 million 2009: 10,861 million of investment properties.
The following table shows the property portfolio by type of investment.
The properties are shown at market value below in accordance with the policies described in note A4.
2010 2009 m % m % Ofce buildings 4,617 41.2 4,820 44.4 Shopping centres commercial 3,777 33.7 3,699 34.0 Retail warehouses industrial 2,184 19.5 1,780 16.4 Development 402 3.6 20 0.2 Other 232 2.0 542 5.0 Total 11,212 100.0 10,861 100.0 Approximately 46.2 per cent 2009: 42.4 per cent of the UK held investment property is located in London and Southeast England including Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, East and West Sussex, Hampshire, Isle of Wight, Kent, Oxfordshire and Surrey, with 36.7 per cent 2009: 39.8 per cent located throughout the rest of the UK and the remaining 17.1 per cent 2009: 17.8 per cent located overseas.
218 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED b Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the total investments of UK insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Other funds and PAC with-profits sub-fund subsidiaries UnitScottish Excluding linked Annuity UK Amicable Prudential Prudential assets and other insurance Insurance Annuities Annuities and long-term operations Fund Limited Limited Total liabiliti e s business Total m m m m m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 Total investments including derivative assets 10,438 62,814 13,329 76,143 15,571 19,710 121,862 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 145 145 424 40 609 Less: Derivative liabilities 414 2,331 280 2,611 14 362 3,401 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 10,024 60,338 13,049 73,387 15,133 19,308 117,852 Net cash inow outow from operating activities 1,226 507 30 477 258 1,923 1,432 Realised gains losses in the year 165 554 20 534 285 306 108 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 848 4,935 610 5,545 2,586 1,644 10,623 Reclassication of property under development 131 131 131 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 213 6,127 560 6,687 2,559 3,261 12,294 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 9,848 67,832 13,794 81,626 18,421 22,795 132,690 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 1,050 19 1,069 729 37 1,835 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 37 317 166 483 189 709 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,811 66,465 13,609 80,074 17,692 22,569 130,146 Net cash inow outow from operating activities 762 838 21 859 1,000 1,950 1,329 Realised gains in the year 368 1,502 73 1,575 267 23 2,233 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 249 2,963 608 3,571 1,131 1,007 5,958 Dilution of PruHealth investment 56 56 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 145 3,627 660 4,287 2,398 3,036 9,576 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 9,704 70,576 14,496 85,072 20,795 25,855 141,426 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 140 22 162 705 45 912 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 38 344 205 549 205 792 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,666 70,092 14,269 84,361 20,090 25,605 139,722 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 219 c Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of UK insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Other shareholder-backed funds and subsidiaries SAIF Annuity and PAC Unitand other UK insurance with-profits linked long-term operations sub-fund liabiliti e s business Total m m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 82,108 16,318 17,535 115,961 Premiums 3,2711,8601,7366,867 Surrenders 2,394 1,535 42 3,971 Maturities Deaths 5,147 670 1,422 7,239 note a Net ows 4,270 345 272 4,343 Shareholders transfers post-tax 202 202 Switches 270 270 note D2i, note c Assumption changes shareholder-backed business 46 46 note b Investment-related items and other movements 9,365 2,849 1,904 14,118 Foreign exchange translation differences 764 57 707 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 87,495 19,035 19,665 126,195 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 77,529 19,035 19,665 116,229 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 9,966 9,966 Premiums 3,311 2,301 2,278 7,890 Surrenders 2,453 1,272 54 3,779 Maturities Deaths 5,079 726 1,498 7,303 note a Net ows 4,221 303 726 3,192 Shareholders transfers post-tax 223 223 Switches 236 236 note D2i, note c Assumption changes shareholder-backed business 46 46 note b Investment-related items and other movements 9,165 2,097 1,956 13,218 Dilution of holding in PruHealth 27 27 Foreign exchange translation differences 207 1 208 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 91,773 21,671 22,273 135,717 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 81,586 21,671 22,273 125,530 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 10,187 10,187 Average policyholder liabilities balances 2010 79,558 20,353 20,969 120,880 2009 75,692 17,677 18,600 111,969 Excluding the unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds and as adjusted for corporate transactions in the period.
Notes a Net flows of negative 3,192 million have improved from negative 4,343 million in 2009, principally as a result of increased premiums due to bulk annuity transaction in 2010 and improved unit-linked flows.
b Investment-related items and other movements of 13,218 million across fund types reflected the continued strong performance of UK equity markets in 2010, as well as the continued increase in value of debt securities.
c Assumption changes principally represent the net impact of changes to the mortality assumptions and expense assumptions.
Of the 7,258 million total debt securities held in 2010 2009: 6,950 million which are not externally rated, 2,210 million were internally rated AAA to A-, 3,861 million were internally rated BBB to Band 1,187 million were rated below Bor unrated 2009: 2,190 million, 3,445 million and 1,315 million respectively.
The majority of unrated debt security investments were held in SAIF and the PAC with-profits fund and relate to convertible debt and other investments which are not covered by ratings analysts nor have an internal rating attributed to them.
Of the 1,722 million PRIL and other annuity and long-term business investments which are not externally rated, 7 million were internally rated AAA, 92 million AA, 496 million A, 899 million BBB, 82 million BB and 146 million were internally rated B and below.
As detailed in note D2 i below, the primary sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity relates to non-linked shareholder-backed business which covers PRIL and other annuity and long-term business in the table above.
e Products and guarantees Prudentials long-term products in the UK consist of life insurance, pension products and pension annuities.
These products are written primarily in: One of three separate sub-funds of the PAC long-term fund, namely the with-profits sub-fund, SAIF, and the non-profit sub-fund: Prudential Annuities Limited, which is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund: Prudential Retirement Income Limited, a shareholder-owned subsidiary: or Other shareholder-backed subsidiaries writing mainly non-profit unit-linked business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 221 i With-profits products and PAC with-profits sub-fund Within the statement of financial position of UK insurance operations at 31 December 2010, as shown in note D2 a, there are policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of 82.0 billion 2009: 77.5 billion that relate to the WPSF.
These amounts include the liabilities and capital of Prudential Annuities Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the fund.
The WPSF mainly contains with-profits business but it also contains some non-profit business unit-linked, term assurances and annuities.
The WPSFs profits are apportioned 90 per cent to its policyholders and 10 per cent to shareholders as surplus for distribution is determined via the annual actuarial valuation.
The WPSF held a provision of 24 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 31 million to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity products.
SAIFs exposure to guaranteed annuities is described below.
Beyond the generic guarantees described above, there are very few explicit options or guarantees such as minimum investment returns, surrender values or annuities at retirement and any granted have generally been at very low levels.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year, and once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The main factors that inuence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the with-profits fund, ination, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
The overall rate of return earned on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important inuences on bonus rates.
A high proportion of the assets backing the with-profits business are invested in equities and real estate.
If the financial strength of the with-profits business is affected, then a higher proportion of xed interest or similar assets might be held by the fund.
Further details on the determination of the two types of the bonuses: regular and final, the application of significant judgement, key assumptions and the degree of smoothing of investment returns in determining the bonus rates are provided below.
Regular bonus rates For regular bonuses, the bonus rates are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting the bonus level at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on underlying assets.
The expected future investment return is reduced as appropriate for each type of policy to allow for items such as expenses, charges, tax and shareholders transfers.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type, or by the date of payment of the premium or date of issue of the policy or if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change the PAC Board has regard to the overall strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended prudent target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes in regular bonus rates to be gradual over time, and these are not expected to exceed one per cent per annum over any year.
However, the PAC directors retain the discretion whether or not to declare a regular bonus each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can change.
Final bonus rates A final bonus which is normally declared yearly, may be added when a claim is paid or when units of a unitised product are realised.
The rates of final bonus usually vary by type of policy and by reference to the period, usually a year, in which the policy commences or each premium is paid.
These rates are determined by reference to the asset shares for the sample policies but subject to the smoothing approach, explained below.
In general, the same final bonus scale applies to maturity, death and surrender claims except that: The total surrender value may be impacted by the application of a Market Value Reduction MVR for accumulating with-profits policies and is affected by the surrender bases for conventional with-profits business : and For the SAIF and Scottish Amicable Life SAL, the final bonus rates applicable on surrender may be adjusted to reect expected future bonus rates.
Application of significant judgement The application of the above method for determining bonuses requires the PAC Board of directors to apply significant judgement in many respects, including in particular the following: Determining what constitutes fair treatment of customers: Prudential is required by UK law and regulation to consider the fair treatment of its customers in setting bonus levels.
The concept of determining what constitutes fair treatment, while established by statute, is not dened.
Smoothing of investment returns: This is an important feature of with-profits products.
Determining when particular circumstances, such as a significant rise or fall in market values, warrant variations in the standard bonus smoothing limits that apply in normal circumstances requires the PAC Board to exercise significant judgement.
Determining at what level to set bonuses to ensure that they are competitive: The overall return to policyholders is an important competitive measure for attracting new business.
222 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED Key assumptions As noted above, the overall rate of return on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important inuences in bonus rates, subject to the smoothing described below.
Prudential determines the assumptions to apply in respect of these factors, including the effects of reasonably likely changes in key assumptions, in the context of the overarching discretionary and smoothing framework that applies to its with-profits business as described above.
As such, it is not possible to specically quantify the effects of each of these assumptions or of reasonably likely changes in these assumptions.
Prudentials approach, in applying significant judgement and discretion in relation to determining bonus rates, is consistent conceptually with the approach adopted by other rms that manage a with-profits business.
It is also consistent with the requirements of UK law, which require all UK rms that carry out a with-profits business to define, and make publicly available, the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM that are applied in the management of their with-profits funds.
Accordingly, Prudentials PPFM contains an explanation of how it determines regular and final bonus rates within the discretionary framework that applies to all with-profits policies, subject to the general legislative requirements applicable.
The purpose of Prudentials PPFM is therefore to: explain the nature and extent of the discretion available: show how competing or conicting interests or expectations of: different groups and generations of policyholders: and policyholders and shareholders are managed so that all policyholders and shareholders are treated fairly: and provide a knowledgeable observer e. g. a financial adviser with an understanding of the material risks and rewards from starting and continuing to invest in a with-profits policy with Prudential.
Furthermore, in accordance with industry-wide regulatory requirements, the PAC Board has appointed: an Actuarial Function Holder who provides the PAC Board with all actuarial advice: a With-profits Actuary whose specic duty is to advise the PAC Board on the reasonableness and proportionality of the manner in which its discretion has been exercised in applying the PPFM and the manner in which any conicting interests have been addressed: and a With-profits Committee of independent individuals, which assesses the degree of compliance with the PPFM and the manner in which conicting rights have been addressed.
Smoothing of investment return In determining bonus rates for the UK with-profits policies, smoothing is applied to the allocation of the overall earnings of the UK with-profits fund of which the investment return is a significant element.
The smoothing approach differs between accumulating and conventional with-profits policies to reect the different contract features.
In normal circumstances, Prudential does not expect most payout values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance payout values between different policies.
Greater exibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example following a significant rise or fall in market values, and in such situations the PAC Board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits in order to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
The degree of smoothing is illustrated numerically by comparing in the following table the relatively smoothed level of policyholder bonuses declared as part of the surplus for distribution with the more volatile movement in investment return and other items of income and expenditure of the UK component of the PAC with-profits fund for each year presented.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 223 2010 m 2009 m Net income of the fund: Investment return 8,815 10,461 Claims incurred 6,390 6,253 Movement in policyholder liabilities 4,301 3,692 Add back policyholder bonuses for the year as shown below 2,019 1,827 Claims incurred and movement in policyholder liabilities including charge for provision for asset shares and excluding policyholder bonuses 8,672 8,118 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 3,148 3,063 Other income 9 2 Acquisition costs and other expenditure 600 842 Tax charge 528 640 Net income of the fund before movement in unallocated surplus 2,172 3,922 Movement in unallocated surplus 70 1,893 Surplus for distribution 2,242 2,029 Surplus for distribution allocated as follows: 90% policyholders bonus as shown above 2,019 1,827 10% shareholders transfers 223 202 2,242 2,029 ii Annuity business Prudentials conventional annuities include level, xed-increase and retail price index RPI annuities.
They are mainly written within the subsidiaries PAL, PRIL, Prudential Pensions Limited and the PAC with-profits sub-fund, but there are some annuity liabilities in the non-profit sub-fund and SAIF.
Prudentials xed-increase annuities incorporate automatic increases in annuity payments by xed amounts over the policyholders life.
The RPI annuities that Prudential offers provide for a regular annuity payment to which an additional amount is added periodically based on the increase in the UK RPI.
Prudentials with-profits annuities, which are written in the WPSF, combine the income features of annuity products with the investment smoothing features of with-profits products and enable policyholders to obtain exposure to investment return on the WPSFs equity shares, property and other investment categories over time.
Policyholders select a required smoothed return bonus from the specic range Prudential offers for the particular product.
The amount of the annuity payment each year depends upon the relationship between the required smoothed return bonus rate selected by the policyholder when the product is purchased and the smoothed return bonus rates Prudential subsequently declares each year during the term of the product.
If the total bonus rates fall below the anticipated rate, then the annuity income falls.
At 31 December 2010, 35.6 billion 2009: 32.3 billion of investments relate to annuity business of PAL and PRIL.
These investments are predominantly in debt securities including retail price index-linked bonds to match retail price index-linked annuities, loans and deposits and are duration matched with the estimated duration of the liabilities they support.
iii SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC long-term fund formed following the acquisition of the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society in 1997.
No new business may be written in SAIF, although regular premiums are still being paid on policies in force at the time of the acquisition and incremental premiums are permitted on these policies.
The fund is solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of this fund although they are entitled to asset management fees on this business.
The process for determining policyholder bonuses of SAIF with-profits policies, which constitute the vast majority of obligations of the funds, is similar to that for the with-profits policies of the WPSF.
However, in addition, the surplus assets in SAIF are allocated to policies in an orderly and equitable distribution over time as enhancements to policyholder benets i. e. in excess of those based on asset share.
Provision is made for the risks attaching to some SAIF unitised with-profits policies that have MVR-free dates and for those SAIF products which have a guaranteed minimum benefit on death or maturity of premiums accumulated at four per cent per annum.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and a provision of 336 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2010 2009: 284 million to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF this provision has no impact on the financial position of the Groups shareholders equity.
224 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business Prudential UK insurance operations also have an extensive book of unit-linked policies of varying types and provide a range of other non-profit business such as credit life and protection contracts.
These contracts do not contain significant financial guarantees.
There are no guaranteed maturity values or guaranteed annuity options on unit-linked policies except for minor amounts for certain policies linked to cash units within SAIF.
f Exposure to market risk i Non-linked life and pension business For with-profits business, the absence of guaranteed surrender values and the exibility given by the operation of the bonus system means that a high proportion of the investments backing the with-profits business are in equities and real estate with the balance in debt securities, deposits and loans.
The investments supporting the protection business are small in value and tend to be assets of a xed term duration reecting the guaranteed nature of the liabilities.
ii Pension annuity business Prudentials UK annuity business mainly employs xed income investments including UK retail price index-linked assets because the liabilities consist of guaranteed payments for as long as each annuitant or surviving partner is alive.
Retail price index-linked assets are used to back pension annuities where the payments are linked to the RPI.
iii Unit-linked business Except through the second order effect on asset management fees, the unit-linked business of the UK insurance operations is not exposed to market risk.
The lack of exposure arises from the contract nature whereby policyholder benets reect asset value movements of the unit-linked funds.
g Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities i Overview The calculation of the contract liabilities involves the setting of assumptions for future experience.
This is done following detailed review of the relevant experience including, in particular, mortality, expenses, tax, economic assumptions and where applicable, persistency.
For with-profits business written in the WPSF or SAIF, a market consistent valuation is performed as described in section ii below.
Additional assumptions required are for persistency and the management actions under which the fund is managed.
Assumptions used for a market consistent valuation typically do not contain margins, whereas those used for the valuation of other classes of business do.
Mortality assumptions are set based on the results of the most recent experience analysis looking at the experience over recent years of the relevant business.
For non-profit business, a margin for adverse deviation is added.
Different assumptions are applied for different product groups.
For annuitant mortality, assumptions for current mortality rates are based on recent experience investigations and expected future improvements in mortality.
The expected future improvements are based on recent experience and projections of the business and industry experience generally.
Maintenance and, for some classes of business, termination expense assumptions are expressed as per policy amounts.
They are set based on the expenses incurred during the year, including an allowance for ongoing investment expenditure and allocated between entities and product groups in accordance with the operations internal cost allocation model.
For non-profit business a margin for adverse deviation is added to this amount.
Expense ination assumptions are set consistent with the economic basis and based on the difference between yields on nominal gilts and index-linked gilts.
The actual renewal expenses incurred on behalf of SAIF by other Group companies are recharged in full to SAIF.
The assumptions for asset management expenses are based on the charges specified in agreements with the Groups asset management operations, plus a margin for adverse deviation for non-profit business.
Tax assumptions are set equal to current rates of taxation.
For non-profit business excluding unit-linked business, the valuation interest rates used to discount the liabilities are based on the yields as at the valuation date on the assets backing the technical provisions.
For xed interest securities the gross redemption yield is used except for the PAL and PRIL annuity business where the internal rate of return of the assets backing the liabilities is used.
Properties are valued using the rental yield, and for equities it is the greater of the dividend yield and the average of the dividend yield and the earnings yield.
An adjustment is made to the yield on non risk-free xed interest securities and property to reect credit risk.
To calculate the non-unit reserves for linked business, assumptions have been set for the gross unit growth rate and the rate of ination of maintenance expenses, as well as for the valuation interest rate as described above.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 225 ii WPSF and SAIF The policyholder liabilities reported for the WPSF are primarily for two broad types of business.
These are accumulating and conventional with-profits contracts.
The policyholder liabilities of the WPSF are accounted for under FRS 27.
The provisions have been determined on a basis consistent with the detailed methodology included in regulations contained in the FSAs rules for the determination of reserves on the FSAs realistic Peak 2 basis.
In aggregate, the regime has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
These contracts are a combination of insurance and investment contracts with discretionary participation features, as dened by IFRS 4.
The FSAs Peak 2 calculation under the realistic regime requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: The with-profits benets reserve WPBR : plus future policy related liabilities FPRL : plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reect future expected policyholder benets and other outgoings.
Asset shares are calculated as the accumulation of all items of income and outgo that are relevant to each policy type.
Income comprises credits for premiums, investment returns including unrealised gains, and miscellaneous profits.
Outgo comprises charges for tax including an allowance for tax on unrealised gains, guarantees and smoothing, mortality and morbidity, shareholders profit transfers, miscellaneous losses, and expenses and commission net of any tax relief.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount must be determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group and aim to be market consistent.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR, and investment policy employed and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse investment scenarios.
Substantial exibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reect the discretion that is retained in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with the Groups management policy for with-profits funds and the Groups disclosures in the publicly available PPFM.
The contract liabilities for with-profits business also require assumptions for persistency.
These are set based on the results of recent experience analysis.
iii Annuity business Credit risk provisions For IFRS reporting, the results for UK shareholder-backed annuity business are particularly sensitive to the allowances made for credit risk.
The allowance is reected in the deduction from the valuation rate of interest for discounting projected future annuity payments to policyholders that would have otherwise applied.
Since mid-2007 there has been a significant increase in the actual and perceived credit risk associated with corporate bonds as reected in the significant widening that has occurred in corporate bond spreads.
Although bond spreads over swap rates have narrowed from their peak in March 2009, they are still high compared with the levels seen in the years immediately preceding the start of the dislocated markets in 2007.
The allowance that should therefore be made for credit risk remains a particular area of judgement.
The additional yield received on corporate bonds relative to swaps can be broken into the following constituent parts: a the expected level of future defaults: b the credit risk premium that is required to compensate for the potential volatility in default levels: c the liquidity premium that is required to compensate for the lower liquidity of corporate bonds relative to swaps: and d the mark to market risk premium that is required to compensate for the potential volatility in corporate bond spreads and hence market values at the time of sale.
The sum of c and d is often referred to as liquidity premium.
The credit risk allowance is a function of the asset mix and the credit quality of the underlying portfolio.
At 31 December 2010, 84 per cent 2009: 80 per cent of the assets backing the UK shareholder annuity and other business were debt securities as shown in D2 a.
This comprises both government and corporate bonds.
Government bonds are generally given a credit default allowance of zero.
For corporate bonds the credit allowance varies by credit rating.
An analysis of the credit ratings of debt securities is included in note D2 d. Given that the normal business model for Prudentials annuity business is to hold bonds to match long-term liabilities, the valuation rate that is applied to discount the future annuity payments includes a liquidity premium that reects the residual element of current bond spreads over swap rates after providing for the credit risk.
226 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED Historically, until the second half of 2007, when corporate bond spreads widened signicantly, the allowance for credit risk was calculated as the long-term expected defaults and a long-term credit risk premium.
This long-term credit risk was supplemented by a short-term allowance from 31 December 2007 to allow for the concern that credit ratings applied by the rating agencies may be downgraded and defaults in the short-term might be higher than the long-term assumptions.
The weighted components of the bond spread over swap rates for shareholder-backed xed and linked annuity business for PRIL at 31 December 2010, 2009 and 2008, based on the asset mix at the relevant balance sheet date are shown below.
2010 Adjustment from regulatory Pillar I to IFRS Regulatory basis basis bps IFRS 31 December 2010 bps note v bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 160 160 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 16 16 note iii Long-term credit risk premium 10 10 note iv Short-term allowance for credit risk 42 26 16 Total credit risk allowance 68 26 42 Liquidity premium 92 26 118 2009 Adjustment from regulatory Pillar I to IFRS Regulatory basis basis bps IFRS 31 December 2009 bps note v bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 175 175 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 19 19 note iii Long-term credit risk premium 13 13 note iv Short-term allowance for credit risk 39 24 15 Total credit risk allowance 71 24 47 Liquidity premium 104 24 128 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 227 2008 Adjustment from regulatory Pillar I to IFRS Regulatory basis basis bps IFRS 31 December 2008 bps note v bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 323 323 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 15 15 note iii Long-term credit risk premium 11 11 note iv Short-term allowance for credit risk 54 25 29 Total credit risk allowance 80 25 55 Liquidity premium 243 25 268 Notes i Bond spread over swap rates reflect market observed data.
ii For the valuations prior to 31 December 2010, long-term expected defaults were derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2004 uplifted by between 100 per cent B and 200 per cent AAA according to credit rating on the annuity asset portfolio.
The credit rating assigned to each asset held was based on external credit rating and for this purpose the credit rating assigned to each asset held was the lowest credit rating published by Moodys, Standard and Poors and Fitch.
For the 31 December 2010 valuation, long-term expected defaults are derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2009 and the definition of the credit rating used has been revised from the lowest credit rating to the second highest credit rating published by Moodys, Standard and Poors and Fitch.
iii For the valuations prior to 31 December 2010, the long-term credit risk premium provides compensation against the risk of potential volatility in the level of defaults and is derived by applying the 95th percentile from Moodys data from 1970 to 2004 to the annuity asset portfolio.
For the 31 December 2010 valuation, the long-term credit risk premium is derived from Moodys data from 1970 to 2009.
The combined effect of this change and the changes described in ii above is neutral on the long-term credit risk allowance for PRIL.
iv The short-term allowance for credit risk assumed in the Pillar 1 solvency valuations at 31 December 2008 was determined as 25 per cent of the increase in corporate bond spreads as estimated from the movements in published corporate bond indices since 31 December 2006.
Subsequent to this date movements have reflected events in the period, namely the impact of credit migration, the decision not to release favourable default experience, new business and asset trading amongst other items.
This is demonstrated by the analyses below.
v The very prudent Pillar 1 regulatory basis reflects the overriding objective of ensuring sufficient provisions and capital to ensure payments to policyholders can be made.
The approach for IFRS aims to establish liabilities that are closer to best estimate.
IFRS default assumptions are therefore set between the EEV and Pillar I assumptions.
Factors affecting the credit risk allowance at 31 December 2010 The main factors inuencing the credit risk allowance at 31 December 2010 are as follows: a Credit downgrades and default experience The credit risk allowances have been adjusted during 2010 to take account of emerging downgrade and default experience.
Experience in relation to changes in credit rating has improved in 2010 and no assets defaulted for the PRIL business during the year.
The allowance for short-term downgrades has been reduced to offset the impact of credit downgrades on the long-term assumptions.
In addition, the allowance for short-term defaults has been updated to eliminate any experience profits that would otherwise have arisen due to default experience being better than allowed for in the opening reserves.
b Asset trading Since the second half of 2009, the Group started trading out of subordinated financial debt into higher quality assets.
The continuation of the reduction in the subordinated financial debt holdings in 2010 improved the overall credit quality of the corporate bond portfolio and so allowed for a release of long-term credit reserves.
On a Pillar 1 basis this transaction had no overall impact on the solvency surplus of PRIL, the PAC non-participating sub-fund and PAL.
On an IFRS basis, the reduction in subordinated financial debt holdings generated a pre-tax IFRS operating loss of 4 million 2009: loss of 51 million.
c Asset purchases in respect of new business Similar to 2009, the assets purchased during 2010 to back new business have been of better average credit quality than the assets held at 31 December 2008, in particular no subordinated bank debt or sub-investment grade assets have been bought to back new business.
As a result of the lower credit risk of the new business assets the overall allowance for credit risk required at 31 December 2010 is reduced when the new business assets and in-force assets are aggregated together.
228 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED d Overall impact on the PRIL credit risk allowance After taking account of the factors noted above the movement on the average basis points allowances for PRIL on the Pillar 1 regulatory and IFRS bases are as follows: Pillar 1 Regulatory basis IFRS bps bps Long-term Short-term Total Long-term Short-term Total Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2009 32 39 71 32 15 47 Credit downgrades 1 1 1 1 Retention of surplus from favourable default experience 7 7 3 3 Asset trading 5 5 5 5 New business 2 2 1 1 Other 2 1 3 2 2 Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2010 26 42 68 26 16 42 Overall this has led to the credit allowance for Pillar 1 purposes to be 43 per cent 2009: 41 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates.
For IFRS purposes it represents 26 per cent 2009: 27 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates.
The reserves for credit risk allowance at 31 December 2010 for UK shareholder annuity fund were as follows: Pillar 1 Regulatory basis IFRS bn bn Long-term Short-term Total Long-term Short-term Total PRIL 0.6 1.0 1.6 0.6 0.4 1.0 PAC non-profit sub-fund 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 Total 0.7 1.1 1.8 0.7 0.4 1.1 Mortality The mortality assumptions are set in light of recent population and internal experience.
The assumptions used are percentages of standard actuarial mortality tables with an allowance for future mortality improvements.
Where annuities have been sold on an enhanced basis to impaired lives an additional age adjustment is made.
The percentages of the standard table used are selected according to the source of business.
In 2009, Prudentials annuity business liabilities were determined using the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI medium cohort projections with a oor.
In November 2009 a new mortality projection model was released by the CMI.
This model is expected to become the new industry standard.
The new model has been applied in determining the 2010 results with calibration to reect an appropriate view of future mortality improvement.
In recognition of the trend in assumed mortality improvements the Company has in previous years included margins in its annuity liabilities.
In determining the 2010 results the appropriate level of these margins has been reassessed.
See note D2 i below for the net effect of applying the new model, releases of margin, and changes to other related mortality assumptions.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 229 The tables and range of percentages used are set out in the following tables: PAL PRIL 2010 Males Females Males Females In payment 92% 98% PCMA00 88% 100% PCFA00 94% 95% PCMA00 86% 97% PCFA00 with future with future with future with future improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate of 2.25% of 1.25% of 2.25% of 1.25% In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2009 Males Females Males Females In payment 102% 126% PNMA00 84% 117% PNFA00 96% 102% PNMA00 87% 98% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% of C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table with table with a minimum improvement table with annual improvement of a minimum annual annual improvement of a minimum annual 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering to tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering to age 120 zero at age 120 age 120 zero at age 120 In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2008 Males Females Males Females In payment 102% 126% PNMA00 84% 117% PNFA00 97% 102% PNMA00 88% 98% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table with table with a minimum improvement table with annual improvement of a minimum annual annual improvement of a minimum annual 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering to tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering to age 120 zero at age 120 age 120 zero at age 120 In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business The majority of other long-term business written in the UK insurance operations is unit-linked business or other business with similar features.
For these contracts the attaching liability reects the unit value obligation and provision for expenses and mortality risk.
The latter component is determined by applying mortality assumptions on a basis that is appropriate for the policyholder prole.
For unit-linked business, the assets covering unit liabilities are exposed to market risk, but the residual risk when considering the unit-linked liabilities and assets together is limited to the effect on fund-based charges.
For those contracts where the level of insurance risk is insignicant the assets and liabilities arising under the contracts are distinguished between those that relate to the financial instrument liability and acquisition costs and deferred income that relate to the component of the contract that relates to investment management.
Acquisition costs and deferred income are recognised consistent with the level of service provision in line with the requirements of IAS 18.
230 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED h Reinsurance The Groups UK insurance business cedes only minor amounts of business outside the Group.
During 2010, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 128 million 2009: 122 million and reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were 608 million 2009: 502 million in aggregate.
The gains and losses recognised in profit and loss for the 2010 contracts were immaterial.
During 2009 the Groups UK insurance business wrote a longevity swap on certain aspects of the UKs annuity back-book liabilities.
This resulted in a one-off benefit of 34 million to IFRS profit before tax in 2009.
The gains and losses recognised in profit and loss for other contracts in 2009 were immaterial.
i Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2010 Credit risk The approach to reserving for credit risk is set out in note D2 g iii.
Other operating assumption changes Note D2 g iii above explains the application of a new mortality projection model in 2010 to determine the Prudentials annuity business.
The net effect of applying the new model, releases of margins and changes to other related mortality assumptions for shareholder-backed business is a credit of 8 million.
With a 38 million benefit from altered expense assumptions the overall credit for shareholder-backed business is 46 million.
For the with-profits sub-fund, the aggregate effect of assumption changes in 2010 was a net charge to unallocated surplus of 62 million, relating to changes in mortality, expense, persistency and economic assumptions.
2009 Credit risk The approach to reserving for credit risk is set out in note D2 g iii.
Other operating assumptions changes Overall mortality experience was in line with expectations and no change was therefore required to the overall strength of mortality assumptions at 31 December 2009.
For the shareholder-backed business, the aggregate effect of assumption changes in 2009 was a net credit to the shareholder result of 46 million, primarily related to changes to the deation reserve, expense assumptions and modelling changes.
For the with-profits sub-fund, the aggregate effect of assumption changes in 2009 was a net credit to unallocated surplus of 65 million principally for altered expense assumptions.
j Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to market and other risks The risks to which the IFRS basis results of the UK insurance operations are sensitive are asset liability matching, mortality experience and payment assumptions for shareholder-backed annuity business.
Further details are described below.
i With-profits business SAIF Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on the investment of the assets of the fund.
With-profits sub-fund business For with-profits business including non-participating business of PAL which is owned by the WPSF adjustments to liabilities and any related tax effects are recognised in the income statement.
However, except for any impact on the annual declaration of bonuses, shareholders profit for with-profits business is unaffected.
This is because IFRS basis profits for with-profits business, which are determined on the same basis as on preceding UK GAAP, solely reect one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for the year.
The main factors that inuence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the fund, the effect of ination, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
Mortality and other insurance risk are relatively minor factors.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities of the fund.
As unallocated surplus of the WPSF is recorded as a liability, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profits or equity.
The level of unallocated surplus is particularly sensitive to the level of investment returns on the portion of the life fund assets that represents the surplus.
The effects for 2010 and 2009 are demonstrated in note D5.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 231 ii Shareholder-backed annuity business profits from shareholder-backed annuity business are most sensitive to: The extent to which the duration of the assets held closely matches the expected duration of the liabilities under the contracts.
Assuming close matching, the impact of short-term asset value movements as a result of interest rate movements will broadly offset changes in the value of liabilities caused by movements in valuation rates of interest: actual versus expected default rates on assets held: the difference between long-term rates of return on corporate bonds and risk-free rates: the variance between actual and expected mortality experience: the extent to which expected future mortality experience gives rise to changes in the measurement of liabilities: and changes in renewal expense levels.
A decrease in assumed mortality rates of one per cent would decrease gross profits by approximately 53 million 2009: 44 million.
A decrease in credit default assumptions of five basis points would increase gross profits by 119 million 2009: 91 million.
A decrease in renewal expenses excluding asset management expenses of five per cent would increase gross profits by 23 million 2009: 17 million.
The effect on profits would be approximately symmetrical for changes in assumptions that are directionally opposite to those explained above.
iii Unit-linked and other business Unit-linked and other business represents a comparatively small proportion of the in-force business of the UK insurance operations.
profits from unit-linked and similar contracts primarily arise from the excess of charges to policyholders, for management of assets under the Companys stewardship, over expenses incurred.
The former is most sensitive to the net accretion of funds under management as a function of new business and lapse and timing of death.
The accounting impact of the latter is dependent upon the amortisation of acquisition costs in line with the emergence of margins for insurance contracts and amortisation in line with service provision for the investment management component of investment contracts.
By virtue of the design features of most of the contracts which provide low levels of mortality cover, the profits are relatively insensitive to changes in mortality experience.
iv Shareholder exposure to interest rate risk and other market risk By virtue of the fund structure, product features and basis of accounting described in note D2 e and g, the policyholder liabilities of the UK insurance operations are, except for pension annuity business, not generally exposed to interest rate risk.
For pension annuity business, liabilities are exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
However, the net exposure to the PAC WPSF for PAL and shareholders for liabilities of PRIL and the non-profit sub-fund is very substantially ameliorated by virtue of the close matching of assets with appropriate duration.
The level of matching from period to period can vary depending on management actions and economic factors so it is possible for a degree of mis-matching profits or losses to arise.
The close matching by the Group of assets of appropriate duration to annuity liabilities is based on maintaining economic and regulatory capital.
The measurement of liabilities under capital reporting requirements and IFRS is not the same, with contingency reserves and some other margins for prudence within the assumptions required under the FSA regulatory solvency basis not included for IFRS reporting purposes.
As a result IFRS equity is higher than regulatory capital and therefore more sensitive to interest rate risk.
The estimated sensitivity of the UK non-linked shareholder-backed business principally pension annuities business to a movement in interest rates is as follows.
2010 m 2009 m A decrease A decrease An increase An increase A decrease A decrease An increase An increase of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% Carrying value of debt securities and derivatives 6,547 2,938 2,434 4,481 5,372 2,422 2,020 3,731 Policyholder liabilities 5,977 2,723 2,109 3,929 5,125 2,304 1,905 3,498 Related deferred tax effects 154 58 88 149 69 33 32 65 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 416 157 237 403 178 85 83 168 In addition the shareholder-backed portfolio of UK non-linked insurance operations covering liabilities and shareholders equity includes equity securities and investment property.
Excluding any second order effects on the measurement of the liabilities for future cash ows to the policyholder, a fall in their value would have given rise to the following effects on pre-tax profit, profit after tax, and shareholders equity.
232 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D2: UK INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED 2010 m 2009 m A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit 302 151 292 146 Related deferred tax effects 82 41 82 41 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 220 110 210 105 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
The market risk sensitivities shown above reect the impact of temporary market movements and, therefore, the primary effect of such movements would, in the Groups segmental analysis of profits, be included within the short-term uctuations in investment returns.
In the equity risk sensitivity analysis given above, the Group has considered the impact of an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets.
If equity markets were to fall by more than 20 per cent, the Group believes that this would not be an instantaneous fall but rather this would be expected to occur over a period of time during which the Group would be able to put in place mitigating management actions.
k Duration of liabilities With the exception of most unitised with-profits bonds and other whole of life contracts the majority of the contracts of the UK insurance operations have a contract term.
However, in effect, the maturity term of contracts reects the earlier of death, maturity, or lapsation.
In addition, with-profits contract liabilities as noted in note D2 g include projected future bonuses based on current investment values.
The actual amounts payable will vary with future investment performance of SAIF and the WPSF.
The tables below show the carrying value of the policyholder liabilities.
Separately, the Group uses cash ow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The tables below also show the maturity prole of the cash ows used for 2010 and 2009 for that purpose for insurance contracts, as dened by IFRS, i. e. those containing significant insurance risk, and investment contracts, which do not.
2010 m Annuity business With-profits business Insurance contracts Other Insurance In vestment Insurance In vestment contractscontracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total TOTAL Policyholder liabilities 43,691 25,613 69,304 12,282 16,442 28,724 11,737 15,765 27,502 125,530 2010 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 46 31 40 32 29 30 35 29 32 36 5 to 10 years 25 25 25 25 23 24 26 21 23 24 10 to 15 years 13 19 16 18 17 18 18 20 19 17 15 to 20 years 7 14 10 12 13 12 10 11 11 11 20 to 25 years 4 8 6 7 8 8 6 8 7 7 Over 25 years 5 3 3 6 10 8 5 11 8 5 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 233 2009 m Annuity business With-profits business Insurance contracts Other Insurance In vestment Insurance In vestment contractscontracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total TOTAL Policyholder liabilities 40,780 24,780 65,560 11,969 14,292 26,261 10,614 13,794 24,408 116,229 2009 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 50294132313234353538 5 to 10 years 26252625232425222325 10 to 15 years 13191518171718191816 15 to 20 years 6 14 911121211111110 20 to 25 years 3967877666 Over 25 years 2437985775 Notes i The cash flow projections of expected benefit payments used in the maturity profile table above are from value of in-force business and exclude the value of future new business, including vesting of internal pension contracts.
ii Benefit payments do not reflect the pattern of bonuses and shareholder transfers in respect of the with-profits business.
iii Investment contracts under Other comprise certain unit-linked and similar contracts accounted for under IAS 39 and IAS 18. iv For business with no maturity term included within the contracts, for example with-profits investment bonds such as Prudence Bond, an assumption is made as to likely duration based on prior experience.
v The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash flow for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
234 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS a Summary results and statement of financial position i Results and movements in shareholders equity 1 2010 m 2009 m Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 833 618 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 378 132 profit before shareholder tax 455 486 Tax 117 102 profit for the year 338 588 2010 m 2009 m profit for the year as above 338 588 Items recognised in other comprehensive income: Exchange movements 85 231 Unrealised valuation movements on securities classied as available-for-sale: Unrealised holding gains arising during the year 1,170 2,249 Less losses included in the income statement 51 420 Total unrealised valuation movements 1,221 2,669 Related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs 469 1,069 Related tax 247 557 Total other comprehensive income 563 812 Total comprehensive income for the year 901 1,400 Dividends, interest payments to central companies and other movements 97 87 Net increase in equity 804 1,313 Shareholders equity at beginning of year 3,011 1,698 Shareholders equity at end of year 3,815 3,011 Note i The Group has amended the presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations to remove the net equity hedge accounting effect incorporating related amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and include it in short-term fluctuations.
Note A4 d ii explains the effect of the change.
Included within the movements in shareholders equity is a net increase in value of Jacksons debt securities classied as available-forsale under IAS 39 of 1,221 million 2009: 2,669 million.
With the exception of debt securities for US insurance operations classied as available-for-sale under IAS 39, unrealised value movements on the Groups investments are booked within the income statement.
However, for debt securities classied as availablefor-sale, unless impaired, fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Realised gains and losses, including impairments, are recorded in the income statement.
This classication is applied for most of the debt securities of the Groups US operations.
In 2010, Jackson recorded 124 million 2009: 630 million of impairment losses arising from: 2010 m 2009 m Residential mortgage-backed securities 71 509 Public xed income 1 91 Other 52 30 124 630 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 235 Further details on the impairment losses recognised in the year are shown in note B1.
Jacksons portfolio of debt securities is managed proactively with credit analysts closely monitoring and reporting on the credit quality of its holdings.
Jackson continues to review its investments on a case-by-case basis to determine whether any decline in fair value represents an impairment.
In addition, investments in structured securities are subject to a rigorous review of their future estimated cash ows, including expected and stress case scenarios, to identify potential shortfalls in contractual payments both interest and principal.
Impairment charges are recorded on structured securities when the Company forecasts a contractual payment shortfall.
Situations where such a shortfall would not lead to a recognition of a loss are rare.
However, some structured securities do not have a single determined set of future cash ows and instead, there can be a reasonable range of estimates that could potentially emerge.
With this variability, there could be instances where the projected cash ow shortfall under managements base case set of assumptions is so minor that relatively small and justifiable changes to the base case assumptions would eliminate the need for an impairment loss to be recognised.
The impairment loss reects the difference between the fair value and book value.
In 2010, there was a movement in the statement of financial position value for debt securities classied as available-for-sale from a net unrealised gain of 4 million to a net unrealised gain of 1,210 million 2009: net unrealised loss of 2,897 million to a net unrealised gain of 4 million.
This increase reects the effects of tightening credit spreads in the US bond market and lower interest rates.
During 2010, the gross unrealised gain in the statement of financial position increased from 970 million at 31 December 2009 to 1,580 million at 31 December 2010 while the gross unrealised loss decreased from 966 million at 31 December 2009 to 370 million at 31 December 2010.
Details of the securities in an unrealised loss position are shown in D3 d below.
These features are included in the table shown below of the movements in the values of available-for-sale securities: 2010 2009 Changes in Foreign unrealised exchange appreciation translation Reflected as part of movement in other comprehensive income m m m m Assets fair valued at below book value Book value 4,372 8,220 Unrealised loss 370 634 38 966 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 4,002 7,254 Assets fair valued at or above book value Book value 20,743 14,444 Unrealised gain 1,580 587 23 970 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 22,323 15,414 Total Book value 25,115 22,664 Net unrealised gain loss 1,210 1,221 15 4 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 26,325 22,668 Reected as part of movement in other comprehensive income Movement in unrealised appreciation 1,221 2,669 Exchange movements 15 232 1,206 2,901 Book value represents cost amortised cost of the debt securities.
Debt securities for US operations as included in the statement of financial position of 26,366 million 2009: 22,831 million comprise 26,325 million 2009: 22,668 million in respect of securities classified as available-for-sale and 41 million 2009: 163 million for securities of consolidated investment funds classified as fair value through profit and loss.
Translated at the average rate of US$1.55: 1.
Included within the movement in gross unrealised losses for the debt securities of Jackson of 634 million 2009: 1,925 million as shown above was a net increase in value of 84 million 2009: 72 million decrease relating to the sub-prime and Alt-A securities as referred to in section B6.
236 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED ii Statement of financial position US insurance operations Variable annuity Fixed separate account annuity, GIC assets and and other liabilities business 2010 2009 note i note i Total Total m m m m ASSETS Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 3,543 3,543 3,092 Total 3,543 3,543 3,092 Deferred tax assets 1,391 1,391 1,944 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 1,241 1,241 1,404 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 26 26 33 Financial investments: note ii Loans 4,201 4,201 4,319 note v Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 31,203 298 31,501 20,984 note D3d Debt securities 26,366 26,366 22,831 note iii Other investments 1,199 1,199 955 Deposits 212 212 454 note G Total investments 31,203 32,302 63,505 49,576 Properties held for sale 3 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 232 232 340 TOTAL ASSETS 31,203 38,712 69,915 56,359 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Shareholders equity 3,815 3,815 3,011 Total equity 3,815 3,815 3,011 Liabilities note iv Policyholder liabilities: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classied as investment contracts under IFRS 4 31,203 29,320 60,523 48,311 Total 31,203 29,320 60,523 48,311 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations 159 159 154 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-nanced operations 90 90 203 Deferred tax liabilities 1,776 1,776 1,858 Other non-insurance liabilities 3,552 3,552 2,822 Total liabilities 31,203 34,897 66,100 53,348 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31,203 38,712 69,915 56,359 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 237 Notes i Assets and liabilities attaching to variable annuity business that are not held in the separate account are shown within other business.
ii Loans The loans of the Groups US insurance operations of 4,201 million 2009: 4,319 million comprise mortgage loans of 3,641 million 2009: 3,774 million, policy loans of 548 million 2009: 530 million and other loans of 12 million 2009: 15 million.
All of the mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans which are collateralised by properties.
The property types are mainly industrial, multi-family residential, suburban office, retail and hotel.
The breakdown by property type is as follows: 2010 % 2009 % Industrial 31 32 Multi-family residential 18 18 Ofce 19 20 Retail 21 19 Hotels 10 10 Other 1 1 100 100 The US insurance operations commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and is therefore not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
The average loan size is 6.6 million 2009: 6.3 million.
The portfolio has a current estimated average loan to value of 73 per cent 2009: 74 per cent which provides significant cushion to withstand substantial declines in value.
The policy loans are fully secured by individual life insurance policies or annuity policies.
These loans are accounted for at amortised cost, less any impairment.
iii Other investments comprise: 2010 m 2009 m note G3 Derivative assets 645 519 Partnerships in investment pools and other 554 436 1,199 955 In the US, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate efficient portfolio management to match liabilities under annuity policies, and for certain equity-based product management activities.
After taking account of the derivative liability of 799 million 2009: 461 million, which is also included in the statement of financial position, the derivative position for US operations is a net liability of 154 million 2009: net asset of 58 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise primarily investments in limited partnerships.
These include interest in the PPM America Private Equity Fund and diversified investments in 161 2009: 159 other partnerships by independent money managers that generally invest in various equities and fixed income loans and securities.
iv Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and reserves at 31 December 2010 The policyholder liabilities, net of reinsurers share of 694 million 2009: 667 million, reflect balances in respect of the following: 2010 m 2009 m Policy reserves and liabilities on non-linked business: Reserves for future policyholder benets and claims payable 1,567 1,645 Deposits on investment contracts as dened under IFRS grandfathered US GAAP 25,494 23,706 Guaranteed investment contracts 1,565 1,654 Unit-linked variable annuity business 31,203 20,639 59,829 47,644 In addition to the policyholder liabilities above, Jackson has entered into a programme of funding arrangements under contracts which, in substance, are almost identical to GICs.
The liabilities under these funding arrangements totalled 1,411 million 2009: 1,444 million and are included in other non-insurance liabilities in the statement of financial position above.
v Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts include investments in mutual funds, the majority of which are equity based.
238 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED b Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the total investments of US insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Variable annuity separate account Fixed annuity, US insurance assets and GIC and other operations liabilities business Total m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 Total investments including derivative assets 14,538 31,633 46,171 Less: Derivative liabilities 863 863 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 14,538 30,770 45,308 Net cash inow outow from operating activities 4,050 1,295 2,755 Realised losses in the year 529 529 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 2,051 470 1,581 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 6,101 2,294 3,807 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 20,639 28,937 49,576 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 461 461 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 20,639 28,476 49,115 Net cash inow from operating activities 6,441 865 7,306 Realised gains in the year 2121 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 4,123 2,141 6,264 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 10,564 3,027 13,591 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 31,203 32,302 63,505 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 799 799 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 31,203 31,503 62,706 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 239 c Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities of US insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Variable annuity separate Fixed annuity, US insurance account GIC and other operations liabilities business Total m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 14,538 30,823 45,361 Premiums 4,667 4,510 9,177 Surrenders 882 2,373 3,255 Maturities Deaths 199 534 733 note b Net ows 3,586 1,603 5,189 Transfers from general to separate account 984 984 note c Investment-related items and other movements 3,368 382 2,986 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 1,837 3,388 5,225 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 20,639 27,672 48,311 Premiums 7,420 4,315 11,735 Surrenders 1,403 2,195 3,598 Maturities Deaths 259 510 769 note b Net ows 5,758 1,610 7,368 Transfers from general to separate account 1,411 1,411 - note c Investment-related items and other movements 2,875 589 3,464 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 520 860 1,380 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 31,203 29,320 60,523 Average policyholder liabilities 2010 25,921 28,496 54,417 2009 17,589 29,248 46,837 Notes a Movements in the year have been translated at an average rate of 1.55 2009: 1.57.
The closing balance has been translated at closing rate of 1.57 2009: 1.61.
Differences upon retranslation are included in foreign exchange translation differences of 1,380 million 2009: 5,225 million.
b Net flows for the year were 7,368 million compared with 5,189 million in 2009, driven largely by increased new business volumes for the variable annuity business.
c Positive investment-related items and other movements in variable annuity separate account liabilities of 2,875 million in 2010 and 3,368 million in 2009 represent increases in the US equity market during the respective periods.
Fixed annuity, GIC and other business investment and other movements primarily reflects the movement in the valuation of the product guarantees and interest credited to policyholder accounts.
In 2010, interest credited exceeded the small reduction in the guarantee valuation to give an overall increase in liabilities.
In 2009, there was a more significant fall in the valuation of guarantees.
240 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED d Information on credit risks of debt securities 2010 m 2009 m Carrying Carrying Summary value value Corporate and government security and commercial loans: Government 2,440 379 Publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A securities 14,747 12,959 Non-SEC Rule 144A securities 3,044 3,117 Total 20,231 16,455 Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,784 3,316 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 2,375 2,104 Other debt securities 976 956 Total debt securities 26,366 22,831 i Credit quality For statutory reporting in the US, debt securities are classied into six quality categories specified by the Securities Valuation Ofce of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
The categories range from Class 1 the highest to Class 6 the lowest.
Performing securities are designated as Classes 1 to 5.
Securities in or near default are designated Class 6.
Securities designated as Class 3, 4, 5 and 6 are non-investment grade securities.
Generally, securities rated AAA to A by nationally recognised statistical ratings organisations are reected in Class 1, BBB in Class 2, BB in Class 3 and B and below in Classes 4 to 6.
If a designation is not currently available from the NAIC, Jacksons investment adviser, PPM America, provides the designation for the purposes of disclosure below.
The following table shows the quality of the publicly traded and non-SEC Rule 144A debt securities by NAIC classications: 2010 2009 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 5,338 36 4,688 36 2 8,550 58 7,508 58 3 644 5 598 5 4 201 1 122 1 5 11 40 6 3 3 14,747 100 12,959 100 The following table shows the quality of the non-SEC Rule 144A private placement portfolio by NAIC classications: 2010 2009 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 1,125 37 1,084 35 2 1,772 58 1,792 57 3 114 4 162 5 4 18 1 54 2 5 13 20 1 6 2 5 3,044 100 3,117 100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 241 Included within other debt securities of 976 million 2009: 956 million in the summary shown above are 723 million 2009: 652 million of asset-backed securities held directly by Jackson, of which 527 million 2009: 447 million were NAIC designation 1 and 135 million 2009: 152 million NAIC designation 2.
In addition, other debt securities includes 211 million 2009: 172 million in respect of securities held by the Piedmont trust entity and 42 million 2009: 132 million from the consolidation of investment funds managed by PPM America.
In addition to the ratings disclosed above, the following table summarises by rating the debt securities, as at 31 December 2010 using Standard and Poors S&P, Moodys, Fitch and implicit ratings of mortgage-backed securities MBS based on NAIC valuations: 2010 m 2009 m Carrying Carrying value value S&P AAA 4,187 3,287 S&P AA to AA- 801 846 S&P A to A- 5,156 5,192 S&P BBB to BBB- 8,202 7,659 S&P Other 866 895 19,212 17,879 Moodys Aaa 34 273 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 32 43 Moodys A1 to A3 36 32 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 73 64 Moodys Other 135 57 310 469 Implicit ratings of MBS based on NAIC valuations see below NAIC 1 3,083 747 NAIC 2 181 105 NAIC 3-6 232 473 3,496 1,325 Fitch 176 281 Other 3,172 2,877 Total debt securities 26,366 22,831 The amounts within Other which are not rated by S&P, Moodys, Fitch nor are MBS securities using the revised regulatory ratings have the following NAIC classifications: 2010 m 2009 m NAIC 1 1,193 1,102 NAIC 2 1,849 1,623 NAIC 3-6 130 152 3,172 2,877 In the table above, with the exception of some residential mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities for 2010, and for residential mortgage-backed securities for 2009, commercial mortgage-backed securities S&P ratings have been used where available.
During 2009, the NAIC in the US revised the regulatory ratings process for more than 20,000 residential mortgage-backed securities.
In addition, in 2010, the NAIC expanded the revised process to include commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The table above includes these securities, where held by Jackson, using the regulatory rating levels established by external third parties PIMCO for residential mortgage-backed securities and BlackRock Solutions for commercial mortgage-backed securities.
242 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED ii Determining the fair value of debt securities when the markets are not active Under IAS 39, unless categorised as held to maturity or loans and receivables debt securities are required to be fair valued.
Where available, quoted market prices are used.
However, where securities do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades or are quoted in markets that are no longer active as a result of market conditions, IAS 39 requires that valuation techniques be applied.
Note G1 sets out further details of the Groups approach to determining fair value and classies these fair values into a three level hierarchy as required by IFRS 7.
At 31 December 2010, 0.3 per cent of Jacksons debt securities were classied as level 3 2009: three per cent comprising fair values where there are significant inputs which are not based on observable market data.
iii Asset-backed securities funds exposures Included within the debt securities of Jackson at 31 December 2010 are exposures to asset-backed securities as follows: 2010 m 2009 m RMBS Sub-prime 31 Dec 2010: 40% AAA, 11% AA 224 194 Alt-A 31 Dec 2010: 15% AAA, 6% AA 415 443 Prime including agency 31 Dec 2010: 79% AAA, 2% AA 2,145 2,679 CMBS 31 Dec 2010: 36% AAA, 15% AA 2,375 2,104 CDO funds 31 Dec 2010: 4% AAA, 4% AA, including 1 million exposure to sub-prime 162 79 ABS 31 Dec 2010: 26% AAA, 20% AA, including 37 million exposure to sub-prime 814 877 6,135 6,376 Including Groups economic interest in Piedmont and other consolidated CDO funds.
MBS ratings refer to the rating implicit within NAIC risk-based capital valuation see D3 i previous page.
Jackson defines its exposure to sub-prime mortgages as investments in residential mortgage-backed securities in which the underlying borrowers have a US Fair Isaac Credit Organisation FICO credit score of 680 or lower.
iv Debt securities classified as available-for-sale in an unrealised loss position The following tables show some key attributes of those securities that are in an unrealised loss position at 31 December 2010. a Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value The unrealised losses in Jacksons statement of financial position on unimpaired securities are 370 million 2009: 966 million.
This relates to assets with fair market value and book value of 4,002 million 2009: 7,254 million and 4,372 million 2009: 8,220 million respectively.
The following table shows the fair value of the debt securities in a gross unrealised loss position for various percentages of book value at 31 December: 2010 m 2009 m Unrealised Unrealised Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value Fair value loss Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 3,390 102 5,127 169 Between 80% and 90% 273 44 1,201 203 note d Below 80% 339 224 926 594 Total 4,002 370 7,254 966 Included within the table above are amounts relating to sub-prime and AltA securities of: 2010 m 2009 m Unrealised Unrealised Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value Fair value loss Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 98 6 102 3 Between 80% and 90% 55 9 160 28 note d Below 80% 56 25 159 88 Total 209 40 421 119 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 243 b Unrealised losses by maturity of security 2010 m 2009 m Unrealised Unrealised loss loss Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 6 29 5 to 10 years 47 127 More than 10 years 49 92 Mortgage-backed and other debt securities 268 718 Total 370 966 c Age analysis of unrealised losses for the years indicated The following table shows the aged analysis for all the unrealised losses in the portfolio by reference to the length of time the securities have been in an unrealised loss position: 2010 m 2009 m NonNoninvestment Investment investment Investment grade grade Total grade grade Total Less than 6 months 3 67 70 7 51 58 6 months to 1 year 2 2 25 59 84 1 year to 2 years 13 20 33 59 234 293 2 years to 3 years 27 55 82 125 199 324 More than 3 years 58 125 183 35 172 207 103 267 370 251 715 966 At 31 December 2010, the gross unrealised losses in the statement of financial position for the sub-prime and Alt-A securities in an unrealised loss position were 40 million 2009: 119 million, as shown above in note a.
Of these losses 1 million 2009: 21 million relate to securities that have been in an unrealised loss position for less than one year and 39 million 2009: 98 million to securities that have been in an unrealised loss position for more than one year.
d Securities whose fair value were below 80 per cent of the book value As shown in the table a above, 224 million of the 370 million of gross unrealised losses at 31 December 2010 2009: 594 million of the 966 million of gross unrealised losses related to securities whose fair values were below 80 per cent of the book value.
The analysis of the 224 million, 2009: 594 million by category of debt securities and by age analysis indicating the length of time for which their fair value was below 80 per cent of the book value, are as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Category analysis value loss value loss Residential mortgage-backed securities Prime including agency 88 39 322 153 Alt-A 15 4 77 33 Sub-prime 41 20 82 55 144 63 481 241 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 8 29 87 86 Other asset-backed securities 123 105 183 188 Total structured securities 275 197 751 515 Corporates 64 27 175 79 Total 339 224 926 594 244 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED Age analysis of fair value being below 80 per cent for the period indicated: 2010 m 2009 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Age analysis value loss value loss Less than 3 months 1 153 45 3 months to 6 months 5 3 More than 6 months 339 223 768 546 339 224 926 594 e Products and guarantees Jackson provides long-term savings and retirement products to retail and institutional customers throughout the US.
Jackson offers xed annuities interest-sensitive, xed indexed and immediate annuities, variable annuities VA, life insurance and institutional products.
i Fixed annuities Interest-sensitive annuities At 31 December 2010, interest-sensitive xed annuities accounted for 19 per cent 2009: 24 per cent of policy and contract liabilities of Jackson.
Interest-sensitive xed annuities are primarily deferred annuity products that are used for retirement planning and for providing income in retirement.
They permit tax-deferred accumulation of funds and exible payout options.
The policyholder of an interest-sensitive xed annuity pays Jackson a premium, which is credited to the policyholders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the policyholders account and in some cases administrative charges are deducted from the policyholders account.
Jackson makes benefit payments at a future date as specified in the policy based on the value of the policyholders account at that date.
The policy provides that at Jacksons discretion it may reset the interest rate, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The minimum guarantee varies from 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent 2009: 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent depending on the jurisdiction of issue and the date of issue, with 78 per cent 2009: 82 per cent of the fund at three per cent or less.
The average guarantee rate is 3.1 per cent 2009: 3.1 per cent.
Approximately 45 per cent 2009: 61 per cent of the interest-sensitive xed annuities Jackson wrote in 2010 provide for a market value adjustment, that could be positive or negative, on surrenders in the surrender period of the policy.
This formula-based adjustment approximates the change in value that assets supporting the product would realise as interest rates move up or down.
The minimum guaranteed rate is not affected by this adjustment.
Fixed indexed annuities Fixed indexed annuities accounted for 9 per cent 2009: 10 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2010.
Fixed indexed annuities vary in structure, but generally are deferred annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return based on participation rates and caps but provide a guaranteed minimum return.
These guaranteed minimum rates are generally set at 1.25 to 3 per cent.
Jackson hedges the equity return risk on xed indexed products using futures and options linked to the relevant index as well as through offsetting equity exposure in the VA product.
The cost of these hedges is taken into account in setting the index participation rates or caps.
Jackson bears the investment and surrender risk on these products.
Immediate annuities At 31 December 2010, immediate annuities accounted for two per cent 2009: two per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
Immediate annuities guarantee a series of payments beginning within a year of purchase and continuing over either a xed period of years and or the life of the policyholder.
If the term is for the life of the policyholder, then Jacksons primary risk is mortality risk.
The implicit interest rate on these products is based on the market conditions that exist at the time the policy is issued and is guaranteed for the term of the annuity.
ii Variable annuities At 31 December 2010, VAs accounted for 58 per cent 2009: 49 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
VAs are deferred annuities that have the same tax advantages and payout options as interest-sensitive and xed indexed annuities.
The primary differences between VAs and interest-sensitive or xed indexed annuities are investment risk and return.
If a policyholder chooses a VA, the rate of return depends upon the performance of the selected fund portfolio.
Policyholders may allocate their investment to either the xed or variable account.
Investment risk on the variable account is borne by the policyholder, while investment risk on the xed account is borne by Jackson through guaranteed minimum xed rates of return.
At 31 December 2010, approximately 12 per cent 2009: approximately 14 per cent of VA funds were in xed accounts.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 245 Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contractholder either a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benets that are payable in the event of death guaranteed minimum death benefit GMDB, annuitisation guaranteed minimum income benefit GMIB, or at specified dates during the accumulation period guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit GMWB and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit GMAB.
Jackson hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts as described in note D3 f. The GMIB is no longer offered, with existing coverage being reinsured.
iii Life insurance Jacksons life insurance products accounted for seven per cent 2009: nine per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2010.
The products offered include variable universal life insurance, term life insurance and interest-sensitive life insurance.
iv Institutional products Jacksons institutional products consist of GICs, funding agreements including agreements issued in conjunction with Jacksons participation in the US Federal Home Loan Bank programme and medium-term note funding agreements.
At 31 December 2010, institutional products accounted for five per cent of policy and contract liabilities 2009: six per cent.
Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
If deposited funds are withdrawn earlier than the specified term of the contract, an adjustment is made that approximates a market value adjustment.
Under a funding agreement, the policyholder either makes a lump sum deposit or makes specified periodic deposits.
Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be xed but which is usually a oating short-term interest rate linked to an external index.
The average term of the funding arrangements is one to two years.
Funding agreements terminable by the policyholder with less than 90 days notice account for less than one per cent 2009: one per cent of total policyholder reserves.
Medium-term note funding agreements are generally issued to support trust instruments issued on non-US exchanges or to qualied investors as dened by SEC Rule 144A.
Through the funding agreements, Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be xed or oating, to the holders of the trust instruments.
f Exposure to market risk and risk management Jacksons main exposures are to market risk through its exposure to interest rate risk and equity risk.
Approximately 91 per cent 2009: 90 per cent of its general account investments support interest-sensitive and xed indexed annuities, life business and surplus and nine per cent 2009: ten per cent support institutional business.
All of these types of business contain considerable interest rate guarantee features and, consequently, require that the assets that support them are primarily xed income or xed maturity.
Prudential is exposed primarily to the following risks in the US arising from uctuations in interest rates: the risk of loss related to meeting guaranteed rates of accumulation following a sharp and sustained fall in interest rates: the risk of loss related to policyholder withdrawals following a sharp and sustained increase in interest rates: and the risk of mismatch between the expected duration of certain annuity liabilities and prepayment risk and extension risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities.
Prudential is also exposed to the following risks in the US arising from equity market movements: the risk of loss related to the incidence of benets related to guarantees issued in connection with its VA contracts: and the risk of loss related to meeting contractual accumulation requirements in FIA contracts.
Jackson enters into financial derivative transactions, including those noted below to reduce and manage business risks.
These transactions manage the risk of a change in the value, yield, price, cash ows, or quantity of, or a degree of exposure with respect to assets, liabilities or future cash ows, which Jackson has acquired or incurred.
Jackson uses free-standing derivative instruments for hedging purposes.
Additionally, certain liabilities, primarily trust instruments supported by funding agreements, xed indexed annuities, certain GMWB variable annuity features and reinsured GMIB variable annuity features contain embedded derivatives as dened by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Jackson does not account for such derivatives as either fair value or cash ow hedges as might be permitted if the specic hedge documentation requirements of IAS 39 were followed.
Financial derivatives, including derivatives embedded in certain host liabilities that have been separated for accounting and financial reporting purposes are carried at fair value.
246 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED Value movements on the derivatives are reported within the income statement.
In preparing Jacksons segment profit as shown in note B1, value movements on Jacksons derivative contracts, are included within short-term uctuations in investment returns and excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns dened as segment profit.
The types of derivatives used by Jackson and their purpose are as follows: interest rate swaps generally involve the exchange of xed and oating payments over the period for which Jackson holds the instrument without an exchange of the underlying principal amount.
These agreements are used for hedging purposes: put-swaption contracts provide the purchaser with the right, but not the obligation, to require the writer to pay the present value of a long-duration interest rate swap at future exercise dates.
Jackson purchases and writes put-swaptions with maturities up to 10 years.
Put-swaptions hedge against significant movements in interest rates: equity index futures contracts and equity index options including various call and put options and put spreads are used to hedge Jacksons obligations associated with its issuance of xed indexed immediate and deferred annuities and certain VA guarantees.
These annuities and guarantees contain embedded options which are fair valued for financial reporting purposes: total return swaps in which Jackson receives equity returns or returns based on reference pools of assets in exchange for short-term oating rate payments based on notional amounts, are held for both hedging and investment purposes: cross-currency swaps, which embody spot and forward currency swaps and additionally, in some cases, interest rate swaps and equity index swaps, are entered into for the purpose of hedging Jacksons foreign currency denominated funding agreements supporting trust instrument obligations: spread cap options are used as a macro-economic hedge against declining short-term interest rates.
Jackson receives quarterly settlements based on the spread between the two-year and the 10-year constant maturity swap rates in excess of a specified spread: and credit default swaps, represent agreements under which Jackson has purchased default protection on certain underlying corporate bonds held in its portfolio.
These contracts allow Jackson to sell the protected bonds at par value to the counterparty if a dened default event occurs in exchange for periodic payments made by Jackson for the life of the agreement.
Note D3 j parts iii and iv show the sensitivities of Jacksons results through its exposure to equity risk and interest rate risk.
g Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities Under the MSB of reporting applied under IFRS 4 for insurance contracts, providing the requirements of the Companies Act, UK GAAP standards and the ABI SORP are met, it is permissible to reect the previously applied UK GAAP basis.
Accordingly, and consistent with the basis explained in note A4, in the case of Jackson the carrying values of insurance assets and liabilities are consolidated into the Group accounts based on US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, investment contracts as dened for US GAAP purposes are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benets.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts.
These amounts are for: any amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods i. e. deferred income : any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract: and any probable future loss on the contract i. e. premium deficiency.
Capitalised acquisition costs and deferred income for these contracts are amortised over the life of the book of contracts.
The present value of the estimated gross profits is generally computed using the rate of interest that accrues to policyholder balances sometimes referred to as the contract rate.
Estimated gross profits include estimates of the following elements, each of which will be determined based on the best estimate of amounts of the following individual elements over the life of the book of contracts without provision for adverse deviation for: amounts expected to be assessed for mortality less benefit claims in excess of related policyholder balances: amounts expected to be assessed for contract administration less costs incurred for contract administration: amounts expected to be earned from the investment of policyholder balances less interest credited to policyholder balances: amounts expected to be assessed against policyholder balances upon termination of contracts sometimes referred to as surrender charges : and other expected assessments and credits.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 247 VA contracts written by Jackson may, as described above, provide for GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benets are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benets and fees under best estimate persistency assumptions.
In accordance with US GAAP, the grandfathered basis for IFRS, which species how certain guarantee features should be accounted for the GMDB and certain for life GMWB liabilities are not fair valued but are instead determined each period end by estimating the expected value of benets in excess of the projected account balance and recognising the excess ratably over the life of the contract based on total expected assessments.
At 31 December 2010, these liabilities were valued using a series of deterministic investment performance scenarios, a mean investment return of 8.4 per cent 2009: 8.4 per cent and assumptions for lapse, mortality and expense that are the same as those used in amortising the capitalised acquisition costs.
The direct GMIB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of the annuitisation benets in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitisation and recognising the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments.
The assumptions used for calculating the direct GMIB liability at 31 December 2010 and 2009 are consistent with those used for calculating the GMDB and for life GMWB liabilities.
The change in these reserves, along with claim payments and associated fees included in reserves are included along with the hedge results in short-term uctuations, resulting in removal of the market impact from the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
Jackson regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional GMDB and GMIB liability balances, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
GMIB benets are essentially fully reinsured, subject to annual claim limits.
As this reinsurance benefit is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39 and is, therefore, recognised at fair value with the change in fair value included as a component of short-term derivative uctuations.
GMWB not for life features, are considered to be embedded derivatives under IAS 39.
Therefore, provisions for these benets are recognised at fair value, with the change in fair value included in short-term uctuations.
For GMWB and GMIB reinsurance embedded derivatives that are fair valued under IAS 39, Jackson bases its volatility assumptions solely on implied market volatility with no reference to historical volatility levels and explicitly incorporates Jacksons own credit risk in determining discount rates.
Volatility assumptions are based on a weighting of available market data on implied volatility for durations up to ten years, at which point the projected volatility is held constant.
Non-performance risk is incorporated into the calculation through the use of discount interest rates sourced from a AA corporate credit curve.
Other risk margins, particularly for market illiquidity and policyholder behaviour are also incorporated into the model through the use of explicitly conservative assumptions.
On a periodic basis, Jackson rationalises the resulting fair values based on comparisons to other models and market movements.
With the exception of the GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features of VA contracts, the financial guarantee features of Jacksons contracts are in most circumstances not explicitly valued, but the impact of any interest guarantees would be reected as they are earned in the current account value i. e. the US GAAP liability.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benets are determined under US GAAP using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Institutional products are accounted for as investment contracts under IFRS with the liability classied as being in respect of financial instruments rather than insurance contracts, as dened by IFRS 4.
In practice, there is no material difference between the IFRS and US GAAP basis of recognition and measurement for these contracts.
Certain institutional products representing obligations issued in currencies other than US dollars have been hedged for changes in exchange rates using cross-currency swaps.
The fair value of derivatives embedded in funding agreements, as well as foreign currency transaction gains and losses, are included in the carrying value of the trust instruments supported by funding agreements recorded in other non-insurance liabilities.
Deferred acquisition costs Under IFRS 4, the Group applies grandfathered US GAAP for measuring the insurance assets and liabilities of Jackson.
In the case of Jackson term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity and interest-sensitive life business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with a combination of historical and future expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For xed and indexed annuity and interest-sensitive life business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate on investments and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
Expected gross profits also depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual mortality, lapse, and expense experience is performed using internally developed experience studies.
As with xed and indexed annuity and interest-sensitive life business, acquisition costs for Jacksons variable annuity products are amortised in line with the emergence of profits.
The measurement of the amortisation in part reects current period fees including those for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal benets earned on assets covering liabilities to policyholders, and the historical and expected level of future gross profits which depends on the assumed level of future fees, as well as components related to mortality, lapse, and expense.
248 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED Under US GAAP as grandfathered under IFRS 4 the projected gross profits reect an assumed long-term level of equity return which, for Jackson, is 8.4 per cent after deduction of net external fund management fees.
This is applied to the period end level of separate account equity assets after application of a mean reversion technique that removes a portion of the effect of levels of short-term variability in current market returns.
Under the mean reversion technique applied by Jackson, the projected level of return for each of the next five years is adjusted from period to period so that in combination with the actual rates of return for the preceding two years and the current year, the 8.4 per cent annual return is realized on average over the entire eight year period.
Projected returns after the mean reversion period revert back to the 8.4 per cent target.
A capping feature, which currently applies due to the very sharp market falls in 2008, is that the projected rates of return for the next five years can be no more than 15 per cent gross of asset management fee per annum.
If Jackson had not applied the mean reversion methodology and had instead applied a constant 8.4 per cent annual return from todays asset values, the Jackson DAC balance of 3,543 million would fall approximately 80 million to 3,463 million at 31 December 2010.
The amortisation charge to the income statement is reected in operating profit and short-term uctuations in investment returns.
The amortisation charge to the operating profit in a reporting period will incorporate an element of acceleration or deceleration that reects the variance between the actual level of return attained and the assumed level in the mean reversion calculation.
In 2010, the element of DAC amortisation charge included in operating profit includes 11 million of accelerated amortisation.
This amount reects actual separate account return shortfalls in the periods compared with the assumed level of 15 per cent for the year.
For 2009, reecting the excess of actual separate account returns over the 15 per cent assumed level, the operating profit incorporates a credit for decelerated amortisation of 39 million.
For 2010, the separate account return gross of asset management fees was approximately 13 per cent.
In 2011, while the capping feature is in effect, each one per cent divergence of the actual separate account return below or above the assumed return of 15 per cent is estimated to give rise to accelerated or decelerated amortisation, respectively, of approximately 6 million 3 million if the projected rate falls below the 15 per cent cap.
In the absence of significant market declines between now and the end of 2011, Jackson would expect to see higher amortisation levels than normal in 2011.
This would essentially represent a reversal of the mean reversion benets to date, as at that point highly negative returns from 2008 will no longer be included in the mean reverting return calculation.
Statement of changes in equity shadow DAC adjustments Consequent upon the positive unrealised valuation movement in 2010 of 1,221 million 2009: positive 2,669 million there is a debit of 496 million 2009: 1,069 million debit for altered shadow amortisation booked within other comprehensive income.
These adjustments reect movement from period to period, in the changes to the pattern of reported gross profits that would have happened if the assets reected in the statement of financial position had been sold, crystallising the unrealised gains or losses, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
At 31 December 2010 the cumulative shadow DAC balance was negative 520 million 2009: negative 10 million.
h Reinsurance The principal reinsurance ceded by Jackson outside the Group is on term life insurance, direct and assumed accident and health business and GMIB variable annuity guarantees.
In 2010, the premiums for such ceded business amounted to 83 million 2009: 82 million.
Net commissions received on ceded business and claims incurred ceded to external reinsurers totalled 12 million and 72 million respectively, during 2010 2009: 12 million and 66 million respectively.
There were no deferred gains or losses on reinsurance contracts in either 2010 or 2009.
The reinsurance asset for business ceded outside the Group was 694 million 2009: 667 million.
i Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2010 There are no changes of assumptions that had a material impact on the 2010 results of US insurance operations.
Separately, in 2010, the Group amended its presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations to exclude the net equity hedge accounting effect of negative 367 million 2009: negative 159 million relating to its variable and xed index annuity business and reclassied it as a short-term uctuation within the Groups supplementary analysis of profit.
This is explained further in note A4 d ii.
This change had no effect on the measurement of insurance assets and liabilities and therefore on total profit or shareholders equity.
2009 Measurement basis for embedded derivatives of variable annuity business and other policyholder liability Certain variable annuity products sold by Jackson include Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benets GMWB with lifetime benets which, in accordance with the Groups accounting policies, are measured within the IFRS balance sheet at fair value.
This requires a number of assumptions related to projected future cash ows, including those driven by policyholder behaviours such as lapses, fund selections and withdrawals utilisation.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 249 During 2009 the GMWB utilisation assumptions were revised to take account of the more recent experience of policyholder behaviour.
Previously policyholder behaviour for the utilisation of GMWB was assumed to be largely driven by the extent to which benets were in the money.
For 2009, the assumption has been altered to take account of recent experience which shows that the attained age of the policyholder is the key factor in determining utilisation levels.
This has led to a release in policyholder liabilities of 96 million which is offset by a corresponding DAC amortisation charge of 68 million to give an overall impact on profit before tax of 28 million.
This assumption change has been offset by sundry other assumption changes such that the overall impact on operating profit of policyholder liability assumption changes, after taking into account DAC amortisation offsets, is a charge of 4 million.
2010 has been prepared on a consistent basis to 2009. j Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and equity to market and other risks i Currency fluctuations Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Groups US operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would reduce or increase profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders, profit loss for the year and shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2010 m 2009 m 2010 m 2009 m note i profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders 41 44 50 54 profit loss for the year 31 54 37 65 Shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations 347 274 424 335 Note i Sensitivity on profit loss before tax i. e. aggregate of the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations, as discussed in note B1.
ii Other sensitivities The principal determinants of variations in operating profit based on longer-term returns are: growth in the size of assets under management covering the liabilities for the contracts in force: variations in fees and other income, offset by variations in market value adjustment payments and, where necessary, strengthening of liabilities: spread returns for the difference between investment returns and rates credited to policyholders: and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed mortality and persistency studies.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns, which for 2010 and 2009 was 8.4 per cent per annum implemented using a mean reversion methodology.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum benets.
The mean reversion methodology dampens the impact of equity market movements during a particular year, but does not fully eliminate the effects of movements in the equity markets.
In addition, the mean reversion methodology includes both a cap and a oor that determine the maximum impact that the methodology may have.
Further details are explained in note D3 g above.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and GMDB reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
250 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED iii Exposure to equity risk Variable annuity contracts related Jackson issues variable annuity contracts through its separate accounts for which investment income and investment gains and losses accrue to, and investment risk is borne by, the contract holder traditional variable annuities.
It also issues variable annuity and life contracts through separate accounts where it contractually guarantees to the contract holder variable contracts with guarantees either a return of no less than deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benets that are payable in the event of death GMDB, annuitisation GMIB, at specified dates during the accumulation period GMWB or at the end of a specified period GMAB.
At 31 December 2010 and 2009, Jackson had variable annuity contracts with guarantees, for which the net amount at risk NAR is generally the amount of guaranteed benefit in excess of current account value, as follows: Account Net amount Weighted Period until Minimum value at risk average expected 31 December 2010 return m m attained age annuitisation Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 25,540 2,106 64.0 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,742 149 GMWB For life 0-5% 1,996 415 GMAB Premium only 0% 48 1 Highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 3,742 466 63.3 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 2,010 343 GMWB For life 852 196 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 1,768 311 65.7 years GMIB 0-6% 1,933 418 5.1 years GMWB For life 0-8% 15,025 672 Account Net amount Weighted Period until Minimum value at risk average expected 31 December 2009 return m m attained age annuitisation Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 16,915 2,834 63.8 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,505 277 GMWB For life 0-5% 1,240 471 GMAB Premium only 0% 27 2 Highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 2,933 691 62.8 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 1,694 496 GMWB For life 811 258 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 1,307 384 65.1 years GMIB 0-6% 1,815 488 5.9 years GMWB For life 0-7% 6,934 568 Ranges shown based on simple interest.
The upper limits of five per cent, seven per cent and eight per cent simple interest are approximately equal to 4.1 per cent, 5.5 per cent and six per cent respectively, on a compound interest basis over a typical 10-year bonus period.
The NAR for GMWB For life has been estimated as the present value of future expected benefit payments remaining after the amount of the not for life guaranteed benefit is zero.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 251 Account balances of contracts with guarantees were invested in variable separate accounts as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Mutual fund type Equity 23,841 15,477 Bond 3,417 2,340 Balanced 3,345 2,186 Money market 451 522 Total 31,054 20,525 As noted in note D3 f, Jackson is exposed to equity risk through the options embedded in the xed indexed liabilities and GMDB and GMWB guarantees included in certain VA benets as illustrated above.
This risk is managed using a comprehensive equity hedging programme to minimise the risk of a significant economic impact as a result of increases or decreases in equity market levels while taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures in Jacksons operations.
Jackson purchases external futures and options that hedge the risks inherent in these products, while also considering the impact of rising and falling separate account fees.
As a result of this hedging programme, if the equity markets were to increase further in the future, Jacksons free-standing derivatives would decrease in value.
However, over time, this movement would be broadly offset by increased separate account fees and reserve decreases, net of the related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
Due to the nature of the free-standing and embedded derivatives, this hedge, while highly effective on an economic basis, may not completely mute the immediate impact of the market movements as the free-standing derivatives reset immediately while the hedged liabilities reset more slowly and fees are recognised prospectively.
The opposite impacts would be observed if the equity markets were to decrease.
At 31 December 2010, based on the hedges in place at that time, it is estimated that an immediate decrease in the equity markets of 10 per cent would result in an accounting benefit, net of related DAC amortisation, before tax of up to 100 million, excluding the impact on future separate account fees 2009: 60 million.
After related deferred tax there would have been an estimated increase in shareholders equity at 31 December 2010 of up to 60 million 2009: 40 million.
An immediate decrease in the equity markets of 20 per cent is estimated to result in an accounting benefit, net of related DAC amortisation, before tax of up to 170 million 2009: 110 million, excluding the impact on future separate account fees.
After related deferred tax there would have been an estimated increase in shareholders equity at 31 December 2010 of up to 110 million 2009: 80 million.
An immediate increase in the equity markets of 10 and 20 per cent is estimated to result in an approximately equal and opposite estimated effect on profit and shareholders equity as that disclosed above for a decrease.
The actual impact on financial results would vary contingent upon the volume of new product sales and lapses, changes to the derivative portfolio, correlation of market returns and various other factors including volatility, interest rates and elapsed time.
Other exposure to equity risk In addition to the above, Jackson is also exposed to equity risk from its holding of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives.
A range of reasonably possible movements in the value of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives have been applied to Jacksons holdings at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
The table below shows the sensitivity to a 10 and 20 per cent fall in value and the impact that this would have on pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC, profit after tax and shareholders equity.
2010 m 2009 m A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC 143 72 117 58 Related deferred tax effects 50 25 41 20 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 93 47 76 38 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value is estimated to have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
252 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D3: US INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED iv Exposure to interest rate risk Notwithstanding the market risk exposure described in note D3 f, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of xed annuity liabilities of Jackson products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement described in notes D3 e and D3 g. The GMWB features attaching to variable annuity business other than for-life represents embedded derivatives which are fair valued and so will be sensitive to changes in interest rate.
Debt securities and related derivatives are marked to fair value.
Value movements on derivatives, net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within profit and loss.
Fair value movements on debt securities, net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
The estimated sensitivity of these items and policyholder liabilities to a one per cent and two per cent decrease and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% decrease decrease increase increase decrease decrease increase increase profit and loss Direct effect Derivatives value change 842 363 277 529 319 148 159 370 Policyholder liabilities 547 243 219 416 418 185 170 334 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 47 23 34 63 364 162 156 328 Pre-tax profit effect: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 579 245 181 345 144 62 56 109 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 237 102 89 169 229 109 117 267 342 143 92 176 373 171 173 376 Related effect on charge for deferred tax 120 50 32 62 131 60 60 131 Net profit effect 222 93 60 114 242 111 113 245 Other comprehensive income Direct effect on carrying value of debt securities 2,663 1,454 1,454 2,663 2,183 1,179 1,179 2,183 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 1,174 641 641 1,174 764 413 413 764 Related effect on movement in deferred tax 521 285 285 521 497 268 268 497 Net effect 968 528 528 968 922 498 498 922 Total net effect on IFRS equity 1,190 621 588 1,082 680 387 385 677 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 253 k Duration of liabilities The table below shows the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
The table below also shows the maturity prole of the cash ows used for that purpose for 2010 and 2009: 2010 m 2009 m Fixed Fixed annuity and annuity and other business other business including including GICs and GICs and similar Variable similar Variable contracts annuity Total contracts annuity Total Policyholder liabilities 29,320 31,203 60,523 27,672 20,639 48,311 % % % % % % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 50 50 50 52 50 51 5 to 10 years 27 29 28 27 28 28 10 to 15 years 11 12 12 10 12 11 15 to 20 years 5 6 5 565 20 to 25 years 3 2 3 322 Over 25 years 4 1 2 323 The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash ows for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
254 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D4: ASIAN INSURANCE OPERATIONS a Summary statement of financial position Asian insurance operations With-profits Unit-linked 2010 2009 business assets and Total Total note i liabilities Other m m m m m ASSETS Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 236 236 80 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 939 939 822 Total 1,175 1,175 902 Intangible assets attributable to with-profit funds: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 97 97 97 Deferred tax assets 98 98 132 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 205 94 512 811 880 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 9 9 11 Investments accounted for using the equity method 22 2 Financial investments: note ii Loans 874 466 1,340 1,207 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 4,321 9,637 506 14,464 11,182 note d Debt securities 6,759 3,009 4,340 14,108 9,984 Other investments 192 58 132 382 258 Deposits 6 251 381 638 746 note b Total investments 12,152 12,955 5,836 30,943 23,390 Cash and cash equivalents 536 337 728 1,601 837 TOTAL ASSETS 12,990 13,386 8,349 34,725 26,238 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Shareholders equity 2,149 2,149 1,462 Non-controlling interests 5 5 1 Total equity 2,154 2,154 1,463 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classied as investment contracts under IFRS 4 10,958 12,724 4,992 28,674 21,858 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 66 66 53 Total 11,024 12,724 4,992 28,740 21,911 Other non-insurance liabilities: Operational borrowings attributable to shareholders-nanced operations 189 189 210 Deferred tax liabilities 341 25 129 495 384 Other non-insurance liabilities 1,625 637 885 3,147 2,270 Total liabilities 12,990 13,386 6,195 32,571 24,775 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 12,990 13,386 8,349 34,725 26,238 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 255 Notes i The statement of financial position for with-profits business comprises the with-profits assets and liabilities of the Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore with-profits operations.
Assets and liabilities of other participating business are included in the column for other business.
ii The loans of the Groups Asian insurance operations of 1,340 million 2009: 1,207 million comprise mortgage loans of 25 million 2009: 13 million, policy loans of 528 million 2009: 437 million and other loans of 787 million 2009: 757 million.
The mortgage and policy loans are secured by properties and life insurance policies respectively.
The majority of the other loans are commercial loans held by the Malaysian operation and which are all investment graded by two local rating agencies.
Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and unallocated surplus At 31 December 2010, the policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance of 41 million 2009: 18 million and unallocated surplus for Asian operations of 28.7 billion 2009: 21.9 billion comprised the following: 2010 m 2009 m Singapore 9,731 6,960 Hong Kong 6,621 5,762 Malaysia 2,544 1,823 Indonesia 1,475 968 Korea 1,897 1,519 Taiwan 968 545 Other countries 5,463 4,316 Total Asian operations 28,699 21,893 b Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the total investments of Asian insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Asian Unit-linked insurance With-profits assets and operations business liabilities Other Total m m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 Total investments including derivative assets 8,866 7,330 5,613 21,809 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 705 153 243 1,101 Less: Derivative liabilities 32 32 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 8,161 7,177 5,338 20,676 Net cash inow from operating activities 565 1,243 1,220 3,028 Disposal of Taiwan agency business 734 2,527 3,261 Realised gains losses in the year 183 1 61 243 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 671 2,048 393 2,326 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 1,053 2,558 1,761 1,850 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 9,547 9,953 3,890 23,390 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 270 218 230 718 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 63 83 146 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,214 9,735 3,577 22,526 Net cash inow from operating activities 278 838 1,051 2,167 Realised gains in the year 638 327 19 984 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 993 1,786 522 3,301 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited 527 3 474 1,004 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 2,436 2,954 2,066 7,456 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 12,152 12,955 5,836 30,943 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 382 266 91 739 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 120 102 222 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 11,650 12,689 5,643 29,982 256 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D4: ASIAN INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED c Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of Asian insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Asian Unit-linked insurance With-profits assets and operations business liabilities Other Total m m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 8,094 7,220 5,755 21,069 Premiums note ii New business 46 643 517 1,206 In-force 777 1,223 601 2,601 823 1,866 1,118 3,807 note iii Surrenders 361 666 174 1,201 Maturities Deaths 253 19 70 342 Net ows 209 1,181 874 2,264 note iv Change in reserving basis in Malaysia 9 54 63 Change in other reserving basis 4 4 Shareholders transfers post-tax 20 20 Investment-related items and other movements 1,431 2,661 150 4,242 note i Foreign exchange translation differences 853 612 604 2,069 note vi Disposal of Taiwan agency business 724 2,784 3,508 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 8,861 9,717 3,333 21,911 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 8,808 9,717 3,333 21,858 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 53 53 Premiums note ii New business 141 1,072 452 1,665 In-force 897 1,130 616 2,643 1,038 2,202 1,068 4,308 note iii Surrenders 441 1,572 228 2,241 Maturities Deaths 326 40 132 498 Net ows 271 590 708 1,569 Change in other reserving basis 19 19 Shareholders transfers post-tax 24 24 note v Investment-related items and other movements 693 1,405 118 2,216 note i Foreign exchange translation differences 719 1,009 353 2,081 note vii Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited 504 3 461 968 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 11,024 12,724 4,992 28,740 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 10,958 12,724 4,992 28,674 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 66 66 Average policyholder liability balances 10,135 11,222 4,393 25,750 2010 2009 8,371 8,107 3,152 19,630 A djusted for transactions in the period and excluding the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 257 Notes i Movements in the year have been translated at the average exchange rate for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The closing balance has been translated at the closing spot rates as at 31 December 2010.
Differences upon retranslation are included in foreign exchange translation differences of positive 2,081 million in 2010 2009: negative 2,069 million.
ii The increase in policyholder liabilities due to new business premium for the unit-linked business was predominantly driven by an increase in sales during the year of individual linked products.
iii Following the recovery of the stock markets in Asia in late 2009 and 2010, policyholders in Asia took the opportunity to capitalise on the increased value of their unit-linked policies through withdrawals, principally in Indonesia, Malaysia, and India.
The depressed state of the investment markets in late 2008 and 2009 resulted in both the number of, and average value of, withdrawals of investment related products decreasing.
iv The change in reserving basis in Malaysia of 63 million reflects the change made following the adoption of a risk-based capital RBC approach to the local regulatory reporting in that country.
v The positive investment related items and other movements in 2010 for with-profits 693 million and unit-linked business 1,405 million are mainly driven from Asian equity market gains in the period.
vi The disposal of Taiwan agency business reflects the liabilities transferred at the date of disposal.
vii The acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited reflects the liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
d Information on credit risks of debt securities The following table summarises the credit quality of the debt securities of the Asian insurance operations as at 31 December 2010 by rating agency ratings: 2010 m 2009 m With-profits Unit-linked Other business business business Total Total S&P AAA 2,199 349 386 2,934 2,259 S&P AA to AA- 744 100 1,294 2,138 1,594 S&P A to A- 1,337 861 645 2,843 1,496 S&P BBB to BBB- 729 24 160 913 682 S&P Other 649 465 659 1,773 917 5,658 1,799 3,144 10,601 6,948 Moodys Aaa 49 10 6 65 134 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 44 48 23 115 349 Moodys A1 to A3 55 16 59 130 309 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 50 10 35 95 40 Moodys Other 31 18 49 15 229 84 141 454 847 Fitch 4 33 12 49 39 Other 868 1,093 1,043 3,004 2,150 Total debt securities 6,759 3,009 4,340 14,108 9,984 Of the 1,043 million 2009: 517 million debt securities for other business which are not rated in the table above, 350 million 2009: 225 million are in respect of government bonds and 666 million 2009: 265 million are in respect of corporate bonds rated as investment grade by local external ratings agencies, and 5 million 2009: 22 million structured deposits issued by banks which are themselves rated but where the specic deposits have not been.
e Products and guarantees The life insurance products offered by the Groups Asian operations include a range of with-profits and non-participating term, whole life, endowment and unit-linked policies.
The Asian operations also offer health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage to supplement its core life products.
The terms and conditions of the contracts written by the Asian operations and, in particular, the products options and guarantees, vary from territory to territory depending upon local market circumstances.
In general terms, the Asian participating products provide savings and protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined at the discretion of the insurers.
The Asian operations non-participating term, whole life and endowment products offer savings and or protection where the benets are guaranteed or determined by a set of dened market-related parameters.
Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, the cash value of the policy depends on the value of the underlying unitised funds.
Health and Protection H&P policies provide mortality or morbidity benets and include health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage.
H&P products are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies but can be sold separately.
258 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D4: ASIAN INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described in note D2 e in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts written in the Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
Non-participating long-term products are the only ones where the insurer is contractually obliged to provide guarantees on all benets.
Investment-linked products have the lowest level of guarantee, if any.
Product guarantees in Asia can be broadly classied into four main categories, namely premium rate, cash value and interest rate guarantees, policy renewability and convertibility options.
The risks on death coverage through premium rate guarantees are low due to appropriate product pricing.
Cash value and interest rate guarantees are of three types: Maturity values Maturity values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
Declared annual bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Future bonus rates and cash dividends are not guaranteed on participating products.
Surrender values Surrender values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
The surrender value of declared reversionary bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Market value adjustments and surrender penalties are used where the law permits such adjustments in cash values.
Interest rate guarantees It is common in Asia for regulations or market-driven demand and competition to provide some form of capital value protection and minimum crediting interest rate guarantees.
This would be reected within the guaranteed maturity and surrender values.
The guarantees are borne by shareholders for non-participating and investment-linked non-investment guarantees only products.
Participating product guarantees are predominantly supported by the segregated life funds and their estates.
Whole of life contracts with oor levels of policyholder benets that accrue at rates set at inception and do not vary subsequently with market conditions are written in the Korean life operations.
This is to a much lesser extent than the policies written by the Taiwan agency business which was sold in the first half of 2009, as Korea has a much higher proportion of linked and health business.
The Korean business has non-linked liabilities and linked liabilities at 31 December 2010 of 408 million and 1,491 million respectively 2009: 349 million and 1,173 million respectively.
The other area of note in respect of guarantees is the Japanese business where pricing rates are higher than current bond yields.
Lapse risk is a feature in that policyholders could potentially surrender their policies on guaranteed terms if interest rates signicantly increased leaving the potential for losses if bond values had depreciated signicantly.
However, the business is matched to a relatively short realistic liability duration.
The method for determining liabilities of insurance contracts for UK GAAP and IFRS purposes for some Asian operations is based on US GAAP principles and this method applies to contracts with cash value and interest rate guarantees.
Following standard US GAAP procedure, premium deficiency reserve calculations are performed each year to establish whether the carrying values of the liabilities are sufficient.
On the US GAAP basis the calculations are deterministic, that is to say based on a single set of projections, and expected long-term rates of return are applied.
f Exposure to market risk The Asian operations sell with-profits and unit-linked policies and, although the with-profits business generally has a lower terminal bonus element than in the UK, the investment portfolio still contains a proportion of equities and, to a lesser extent, property.
Nonparticipating business is largely backed by debt securities or deposits.
The exposure to market risk of the Group arising from its Asian operations is therefore at modest levels.
This arises from the fact that the Asian operations have a balanced portfolio of with-profits, unit-linked and other types of business.
g Process for setting assumptions and determining liabilities The future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses in the Groups IFRS accounts and previously under the MSB, are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For Asian operations in countries where local GAAP is not well established and in which the business written is primarily nonparticipating and linked business, US GAAP is used as the most appropriate reporting basis.
This basis is applied in Japan, Vietnam and Taiwan.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claims expenses.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 259 h Reinsurance The Asian businesses cede only minor amounts of business outside the Group with immaterial effects on reported profit.
During 2010, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 146 million 2009: 119 million and the reinsurance assets were 41 million 2009: 18 million in aggregate.
i Effect of changes in bases, estimates and assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2010 In 2010, one-off changes made to reserving assumptions resulted in a release from liabilities of 19 million.
2009 In 2009, the local regulatory basis in Malaysia was replaced by the Malaysian authoritys risk-based capital RBC framework.
In the light of this development, the Company has remeasured the liabilities by reference to the method applied under the new RBC framework, but with an overlay constraint to the method such that negative reserves derived at an individual policyholder level are not included.
This change resulted in a one-off release from liabilities at 1 January 2009 of 63 million.
Excluding the change in Malaysia, the 2009 result for Asian operations was reduced by the effect of a number of individually small assumption changes of, in aggregate 4 million.
j Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and equity to market and other risks Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asian insurance operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
For 2010, the rates for the most significant operations are given in note B4.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would have reduced or increased profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m note i Loss profit before tax attributable to shareholders 65 40 80 49 Loss profit for the year 58 35 71 43 Shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations 193 129 236 158 Note i Sensitivity on profit before tax i. e. aggregate of the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, short-term fluctuations in investment returns, and actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes but excluding the loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business, as discussed in note B1.
Other risks i With-profits business Similar principles to those explained for UK with-profits business apply to profit emergence for the Asian with-profits business.
Correspondingly, the profit emergence reects bonus declaration and is relatively insensitive to period by period uctuations in insurance risk or interest rate movements.
ii Unit-linked business As for the UK insurance operations, the profits and shareholders equity related to the Asian operations is primarily driven by charges related to invested funds.
For the Asian operations, substantially all of the contracts are classied as insurance contracts under IFRS 4, i. e. containing significant insurance risk.
The sensitivity of profits and equity to changes in insurance risk is minor and, to interest rate risk, not material.
iii Other business a Interest rate risk Asian operations offer a range of insurance and investment products, predominately with-profits and non-participating term, whole life endowment and unit-linked.
Excluding with-profit and unit-linked business, the results of the Asian business are sensitive to the vagaries of routine movements in interest rates.
260 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D4: ASIAN INSURANCE OPERATIONS CONTINUED For the purposes of analysing sensitivity to variations in interest rates, it has been determined for the majority of territories that a movement of one per cent in the 10 year government bond rate can be considered reasonably possible.
At 31 December 2010, 10 year government bond rates vary from territory to territory and range from 1.1 per cent to 12.25 per cent 2009: 1.3 per cent to 11.45 per cent.
Exception to this arises in Japan and Taiwan where reasonably possible interest rate movements have been determined as 0.5 per cent 2009: Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent.
These reasonably possible changes would have the following impact: 2010 m 2009 m A decrease A decrease of 1% of 1% note i note i Pre-tax profit 110 91 Related deferred tax where applicable 41 22 Net effect on profit and equity 69 69 Note i One per cent sensitivity has been used in all territories except Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent 2009: Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent.
The pre-tax impacts, if they arose, would mostly be recorded within the category short-term fluctuations in investments returns in the Groups segmental analysis of profit before tax.
At 31 December 2010, an increase in the rates of one per cent Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent 2009: one per cent except Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent is estimated to have the effect of decreasing pre-tax profit by 112 million 2009: 109 million.
After adjusting these results for deferred tax the reasonable possible effect on shareholders equity is a decrease of 82 million 2009: 83 million.
b Equity price risk The non-linked shareholder business has limited exposure to equity and property investment 515 million at 31 December 2010.
Generally changes in equity and property investment values are not automatically matched by investments in policyholder liabilities.
However, for the Vietnam business, to the extent that equity investment appreciation is realised through sales of securities then policyholders liabilities are adjusted to the extent that policyholders participate.
The estimated sensitivity to a 10 and 20 per cent change in equity and property prices for shareholder-backed Asian other business, which would be reected in the short-term uctuation component of the Groups segmental analysis of profit before tax at 31 December 2010 and 2009, would be as follows: 2010 m 2009 m A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit 103 52 58 29 Related deferred tax where applicable 10 5 84 Net effect on profit and equity 93 47 50 25 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value is estimated to have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
In the equity risk sensitivity analysis given above the Group has considered the impact of an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets.
c Insurance risk Many of the territories in Asia are exposed to mortality morbidity risk and provision is made within IFRS policyholder liabilities on a prudent regulatory basis to cover the potential exposure.
If these prudent assumptions were strengthened by five per cent estimated at one in ten year shock then it is estimated that post-tax IFRS profit would be impacted by approximately 21 million 2009: 9 million with a corresponding change to IFRS shareholders equity.
Mortality morbidity has a symmetrical effect on portfolio and so a weakening of mortality morbidity assumptions would have an approximately equal and opposite similar impact.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 261 k Duration of liabilities The table below shows the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
Separately the Group uses cash ow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The table below also shows the maturity prole of the cash ows, taking account of expected future premiums and investment returns used for that purpose for 2010 and 2009: 2010 m 2009 m Policyholder liabilities 28,674 21,858 %% Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 24 24 5 to 10 years 20 21 10 to 15 years 15 15 15 to 20 years 12 12 20 to 25 years 10 9 Over 25 years 19 19 262 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D5: CAPITAL POSITION STATEMENT FOR LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES a Summary statement The Groups estimated capital position for life assurance businesses with reconciliations to shareholders equity is shown below.
Available capital for each fund or group of companies is determined by reference to local regulation at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
2010 m Parent company Other and shareUK life holders Total assurance Asian Total equity of PAC subsidilife life M&G other witharies and assurance assurance including subsidiWPSF profits funds  aries and Group 31 December 2010 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson aries tions Capital funds total GROUP SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 716 3,815 1,913 6,444 254 1,532 5,166 Goodwill 236 236 1,153 77 1,466 Total 716 3,815 2,149 6,680 1,407 1,455 6,632 note iii Held in long-term funds 1,399 1,399 1,399 Total Group shareholders equity 2,115 3,815 2,149 8,079 1,407 1,455 8,031 ADJUSTMENTS TO REGULATORY BASIS Unallocated surplus of note v with-profits funds 10,187 10,187 66 10,253 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 2,938 2,938 2,938 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes and goodwill 13 13 116 3,543 993 4,665 note iv Jackson surplus notes 159 159 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS basis and regulatory basis note viii for Jackson 1,900 1,900 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension deficit attributable to WPSF to pension liability note vii for regulatory purposes 60 60 60 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 1,202 1,202 1,202 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on a Peak 2 note v realistic basis 706 706 292 576 156 1,146 Total adjustments 6,800 6,800 408 908 771 4,713 TOTAL AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES OF LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES ON LOCAL REGULATORY BASES 6,800 6,800 1,707 2,907 1,378 12,792 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 263 2010 m Other UK life Total assurance PAC subsidiAsian life witharies and assurance Total life WPSF profits funds subsidiassurance 31 December 2010 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson aries operations POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 9,115 31,395 40,510 5,284 45,794 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 376 25,237 25,613 119 25,732 Total 9,491 56,632 66,123 5,403 71,526 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 5,555 5,555 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 2,128 2,128 8,882 31,203 12,724 54,937 Other life assurance business 268 13,067 13,335 19,297 27,438 4,935 65,005 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC liabilities of note vi Jackson 15,765 1,882 57 17,704 Total 268 15,195 15,463 43,944 60,523 23,271 143,201 TOTAL POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES SHOWN IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 9,759 71,827 81,586 43,944 60,523 28,674 214,727 264 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D5: CAPITAL POSITION STATEMENT FOR LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED 2009 m Parent company Other and shareUK life holders Total assurance Asian Total equity of PAC subsidilife life M&G other witharies and assurance assurance including subsidiWPSF profits funds  aries and Group 31 December 2009 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson aries tions Capital funds total GROUP SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 788 3,011 1,382 5,181 173 1,507 3,847 Goodwill 80 80 1,153 77 1,310 Total 788 3,011 1,462 5,261 1,326 1,430 5,157 note iii Held in long-term funds 1,114 1,114 1,114 Total Group shareholders equity 1,902 3,011 1,462 6,375 1,326 1,430 6,271 ADJUSTMENTS TO REGULATORY BASIS Unallocated surplus of note v with-profits funds 9,966 9,966 53 10,019 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 3,001 3,001 3,001 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes and goodwill 2 7 9 124 3,092 786 4,011 note iv Jackson surplus notes 154 154 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS basis and regulatory basis for note viii Jackson 2,221 2,221 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension deficit attributable to WPSF to pension liability note vii for regulatory purposes 65 65 65 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 1,294 1,294 1,294 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on a Peak 2 note v realistic basis 2 703 705 171 194 400 1,128 Total adjustments 6,432 6,432 295 523 333 5,281 TOTAL AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES OF LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES ON LOCAL REGULATORY BASES 6,432 6,432 1,607 2,488 1,129 11,656 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 265 2009 m Other UK life Total assurance PAC subsidiAsian life witharies and assurance Total life WPSF profits funds subsidiassurance 31 December 2009 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson aries operations POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 9,285 28,449 37,734 4,766 42,500 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 396 24,384 24,780 100 24,880 Total 9,681 52,833 62,514 4,866 67,380 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 3,942 3,942 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 1,998 1,998 6,793 20,639 9,717 39,147 Other life assurance business 291 12,726 13,017 18,113 25,707 3,287 60,124 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC liabilities of note vi Jackson 13,794 1,965 46 15,805 Total 291 14,724 15,015 38,700 48,311 16,992 119,018 TOTAL POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES SHOWN IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 9,972 67,557 77,529 38,700 48,311 21,858 186,398 Notes i WPSF unallocated surplus includes amounts related to the Hong Kong branch.
Policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch are included in the amounts of Asian life assurance subsidiaries.
ii Excluding PAC shareholders equity that is included in parent company and shareholders equity of other subsidiaries and funds.
iii The term shareholders equity held in long-term funds refers to the excess of assets over liabilities attributable to shareholders of funds which are required by law to be maintained with segregated assets and liabilities.
iv For regulatory purposes the Jackson surplus notes are accounted for as capital.
v Other adjustments to shareholders equity and unallocated surplus include amounts for the value of non-participating business for UK regulated with-profits funds, deferred tax, admissibility and other items measured differently on the regulatory basis.
For Jackson the principal reconciling item is deferred tax related to the differences between IFRS and regulatory bases as shown in the table above and other methodology differences.
vi Insurance business accounted for as financial instruments under IAS 39. vii In determining the IAS 19 adjustment for the purposes of this table the deficit in the Groups main pension scheme used for the calculation includes amounts for investments in Prudential insurance policies see note I3.
viii The investment and policyholder liabilities valuation difference between IFRS and regulatory bases for Jackson is mainly due to not all investments being carried at fair value under the regulatory basis and also due to the valuation difference on annuity reserves.
266 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D5: CAPITAL POSITION STATEMENT FOR LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED b Basis of preparation, capital requirements and management Each of the Groups long-term business operations is capitalised to a sufciently strong level for its individual circumstances.
Details of the Groups major operations are shown below.
i UK insurance operations The FSA rules which govern the Prudential regulation of insurance form part of the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, the General Prudential Sourcebook and Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
Overall, the net requirements of the General Prudential Sourcebook are intended to align the capital adequacy requirements for insurance business more closely with those of banking and investment rms and building societies, for example, by addressing tiers of capital, rather than looking at net admissible assets.
An insurer must hold capital resources equal at least to the Minimum Capital Requirement MCR.
The Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers also contains rules on Individual Capital Assessments.
Under these rules and the rules of the General Prudential Sourcebook all insurers must assess for themselves the amount of capital needed to back their business.
If the FSA views the results of this assessment as insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance for a rm, which can be superimposed as a requirement.
PAC WPSF and SAIF Under FSA rules, insurers with with-profits liabilities of more than 500 million must hold capital equal to the higher of the MCR and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a with-profit insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly speaking equivalent to the previous required minimum margin under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook and satisfies the minimum EU Standards.
Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two separate measurements of the rms resources requirement, which the FSA refers to as the twin peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: i The requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus the Long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and ii a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers expected future contractual liabilities together with projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
Available capital of the WPSF and SAIF of 6.8 billion 2009: 6.4 billion represents the excess of assets over liabilities on the FSA realistic basis.
Unlike the previously discussed FRS 27 basis, realistic liabilities on the regulatory basis include the shareholders share of future bonuses.
These amounts are shown before deduction of the risk capital margin RCM which is estimated to be 1.5 billion at 31 December 2010 2009: 1.4 billion.
The FSAs basis of setting the RCM is to target a level broadly equivalent to a Standard & Poors credit rating of BBB and to judge this by ensuring there are sufficient assets to absorb a one in 200 year event.
The RCM calculation achieves this by setting rules for the determination of margins to cover dened stress changes in asset values and yields for market risk, credit risk and termination risk for with-profits policies.
As noted in section D2 g ii, PAC has discretion in its management actions in the case of adverse investment conditions.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to, investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary bonuses, crediting rates and total claim values.
To illustrate the exibility of management actions, rates of regular bonus are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting them at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on the underlying assets.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type, or by date of payment of the premiums or date of issue of the policy, if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change, the PAC Board has regard to the overall financial strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended product target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes to regular bonus rates to be gradual over time and changes are not expected to exceed one per cent per annum over any year.
However, discretion is retained as to whether or not a regular bonus is declared each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can be changed.
As regards smoothing of maturity and death benets, in normal circumstances PAC does not expect most pay-out values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance pay-out values between different policies.
Greater exibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example, following a significant rise or fall in market values either sudden or over a period of years and in such situations the PAC Board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
For surrender benets, any substantial fall in the market value of the assets of the with-profits sub-fund would lead to changes in the application of MVRs for accumulating with-profits policies, rstly to increase the size of MVRs already being applied and, secondly, to extend the range of policies for which an MVR is applied.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 267 Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The available capital of 1,707 million 2009: 1,607 million reects the excess of regulatory basis assets over liabilities of the subsidiaries and funds, before deduction of the capital resources requirement of 1,086 million 2009: 952 million.
The capital resources requirement for these companies broadly reects a formula which, for active funds, equates to a percentage of regulatory reserves plus a percentage of death strains.
Death strains represent the payments made to policyholders upon death in excess of amounts explicitly allocated to fund the provisions for policyholders claims and maturities.
ii Jackson The regulatory framework for Jackson is governed by the requirements of the US NAIC approved risk-based capital standards.
Under these requirements life insurance companies report for the most part on a formula-based capital standard that they calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items and separate model based calculations of risk associated primarily with variable annuity products.
The risk-based capital formula takes into account the risk characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and business risk.
The available capital of Jackson shown above of 2,907 million 2009: 2,488 million reects US regulatory basis assets less liabilities including asset valuation reserves.
The asset valuation reserve is designed to provide for future credit-related losses on debt securities and losses on equity investments.
Available capital includes a reduction for the effect of the interest maintenance reserve, which is designed by state regulators to defer recognition of non-credit related realised capital gains and losses and to recognise them rateably in the future.
Jacksons risk-based capital ratio is signicantly in excess of regulatory requirements.
At 31 December 2010, Jackson had a permitted practice in effect as granted by the local regulator allowing Jackson to carry certain interest rate swaps at book value, as if statutory hedge accounting were in place, instead of at fair value as would have been otherwise required.
Jackson was also required to demonstrate the effectiveness of its interest rate swap programme pursuant to the Michigan Insurance Code.
The total effect of this permitted practice, which expires on 1 October 2011 was to increase statutory surplus by 83 million at 31 December 2010. iii Asian operations The available capital shown above of 1,378 million 2009: 1,129 million represents the excess of local regulatory basis assets over liabilities before deduction of required capital of 572 million 2009: 438 million.
These amounts have been determined applying the local regulations in each of the operations.
The businesses in Asia are subject to local capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The Hong Kong business branch of PAC and its capital requirements are subsumed within those of the PAC long-term fund.
For the other material Asian operations, the details of the basis of determining regulatory capital and regulatory capital requirements are as follows: Singapore In Singapore a risk-based regulatory framework applies rather than one based on a net premium approach.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve, determined using prudent best estimate assumptions and which makes allowance for future bonus, is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of the higher of the assets attributed to participating business and a gross premium reserve calculated on specified assumptions, but without allowance for future bonus, that include prescribed provisions for adverse deviations PADs.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves are held.
For linked business the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology.
Indonesia Policy reserves for traditional business are determined on a modied net premium basis.
The valuation interest rates are capped at nine per cent for local currency products and five per cent for foreign currency products.
Solvency capital is determined using a risk-based capital approach.
Insurance companies in Indonesia are expected to maintain the level of net assets above 120 per cent of solvency capital.
Due to the 2008 financial crisis, the local regulator provided relief in solvency capital and the measure continues until further notice.
Japan Mathematical reserves for traditional business are determined on a net premium basis using prescribed mortality and interest rates.
Interest rates reect the original pricing assumptions.
With regard to solvency, the adjusted solvency capital assets of the Company must exceed 200 per cent of the risk related capital requirement value at risk.
It is thus a risk-based capital approach.
268 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D5: CAPITAL POSITION STATEMENT FOR LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED Malaysia In Malaysia, a risk-based capital framework applies since 2009.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed and non-guaranteed benets determined using best estimate assumptions is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed benets, determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations PRADs discounted at the risk-free rate.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations PRADs discounted at the risk-free rate are held.
The risk-free rate is derived from a yield curve of zero-coupon spot yields of Malaysian Government Securities.
Vietnam Mathematical reserves are calculated using a modied net premium approach, using a stable set of assumptions agreed with the regulator.
The capital requirement is determined as four per cent of reserves plus a specified percentage of 0.1 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term less than or equal to five years or 0.3 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term of more than five years.
An additional capital requirement of Vietnamese Dong 200 billion is also required for companies transacting unit-linked business.
Korea Policy reserves for traditional business are determined on net premium reserve basis using pricing mortality and prescribed standard interest rates.
For linked business, the value of units is held together with the non-unit reserves calculated in accordance with regulatory standard actuarial methodology.
The capital requirement in Korea has moved to a risk-based regulatory framework in April 2009 with a two-year transition period where insurers can choose between the prior and new framework.
The risk-based regulatory framework was adopted in 2009 by the Company.
Under the new framework, insurance companies in Korea are expected to maintain a level of free surplus in excess of the capital requirements with the general target level of solvency margin being in excess of 150 per cent of the risk-based capital.
iv Group capital requirements In addition to the requirements at individual company level, FSA requirements under the IGD apply additional prudential requirements for the Group as a whole.
Discussion of the Groups estimated IGD position at 31 December 2010, together with market risk sensitivity disclosure provided to key management, is provided in the business review section of the Groups 2010 Annual Report and in section C. c Movements in total available capital Total available capital for the Groups life assurance operations has changed during 2010 as follows: 2010 m Other UK life assurance Asian life subsidiaries assurance WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Group note i note iii note ii note iv total AVAILABLE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 6,432 1,607 2,488 1,129 11,656 Changes in assumptions 83 30 2 55 Changes in management policy 364 364 Changes in regulatory requirements 60 60 note v New business and other factors 87 70 479 251 887 AVAILABLE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 6,800 1,707 2,907 1,378 12,792 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL D: LIFE ASSURANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESSES 269 Detail on the movement for 2009 is as follows: 2009 m Other UK life assurance Asian life subsidiaries assurance WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Group note i note iii note ii note iv total AVAILABLE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2008 5,362 1,053 2,758 1,410 10,583 Changes in assumptions 18 23 2 43 Changes in management policy 26 101 75 Changes in regulatory requirements 128 178 306 note v New business and other factors 1,052 505 398 360 799 AVAILABLE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 6,432 1,607 2,488 1,129 11,656 Notes i WPSF The increase in 2010 reflects primarily the positive effect of changes in management policy in respect of hedge strategy, asset allocation, and other risk alignment changes.
The increase in 2009 reflected primarily the positive investment returns earned on the opening available capital and 18 million positive effect of changes in assumptions on a regulatory basis.
ii Jackson The increase of 419 million in 2010 reflects an underlying increase of 340 million applying the 2010 year end exchange rate of $1.57:1 and 79 million of exchange translation gains.
The decrease of 270 million in 2009 reflected an underlying increase of 33 million applying the 2009 year end exchange rate of $1.61:1 and 303 million of exchange translation loss.
The underlying movement of the available capital of Jackson included the effects of capital contributions, dividends paid to the parent company, impairment losses and also the effects of hedging transactions.
iii Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The effect from the changes in assumptions of valuation interest rates on insurance liabilities is broadly matched by the corresponding effect on assets leaving no significant impact on the available capital.
iv Asian life assurance subsidiaries The increase of 251 million in 2010 reflects an underlying increase of 127 million applying the relevant 2010 year end exchange rates and 124 million of exchange translation gain.
The underlying increase of available capital in 2010 included the effects of the acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore in February 2010.
The decrease of 281 million in 2009 reflected an underlying decrease of 152 million applying the relevant 2009 year end exchange rates and 129 million of exchange translation loss.
The underlying decrease of available capital in 2009 included the effects of the change to a risk-based capital framework in Malaysia from 1 January 2009 as explained in section b above and also the sale of the Taiwan agency business in June 2009. v New business and other factors comprise the effect of changes in new business, valuation interest rate, investment return, foreign exchange and other factors.
d Transferability of available capital For PAC and all other UK long-term insurers, long-term business assets and liabilities must, by law, be maintained in funds separate from those for the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance business or to shareholders.
Only the established surplus, the excess of assets over liabilities in the long-term fund determined through a formal valuation, may be transferred so as to be available for other purposes.
Distributions from the with-profits sub-fund to shareholders reect the shareholders one-ninth share of the cost of declared policyholders bonuses.
Accordingly, the excess of assets over liabilities of the PAC long-term fund is retained within that company.
The retention of the capital enables it to support with-profits and other business of the fund by, for example, providing the benets associated with smoothing and guarantees.
It also provides investment exibility for the funds assets by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
For other UK long-term business subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels which provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the regulatory minimum.
For Jackson, capital retention is maintained at a level consistent with an appropriate rating by Standard & Poors.
Currently Jackson is rated AA.
Jackson can pay dividends on its capital stock only out of earned surplus unless prior regulatory approval is obtained.
Furthermore, dividends which exceed the greater of statutory net gain from operations for the prior year or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus require prior regulatory approval.
For Asian subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels that provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the local regulatory minimum.
For ring-fenced with-profits funds, the excess of assets over liabilities is retained with distribution tied to the shareholders share of bonuses through declaration of actuarially determined surplus.
The Singapore and Malaysian businesses may, in general, remit dividends to the UK, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
270 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D: LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED D5: CAPITAL POSITION STATEMENT FOR LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED Available capital of the non-insurance business units is transferable to the life assurance businesses after taking account of an appropriate level of operating capital, based on local regulatory solvency targets, over and above basis liabilities.
The economic capital model described in section D1 concentration of risks takes into account restrictions on mobility of capital across the Group with capital transfers to and from business units triggered at a solvency level consistent with these targets.
The model takes into account restrictions on the availability to the Group of the estate of the various with-profits funds throughout the Group.
e Sensitivity of liabilities and total capital to changed market conditions and capital management policies Prudential manages its assets, liabilities and capital locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reecting the different types of liabilities Prudential has in each business.
As a result of the diversity of products offered by Prudential and the different regulatory requirements in which it operates, Prudential employs differing methods of asset liability and capital management, depending on the business concerned.
Stochastic modelling of assets and liabilities is undertaken in the UK, Jackson and Asia to assess the economic capital requirements under different confidence intervals and time horizons.
In addition, reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency testing is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the UK, US and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation, management actions and policyholder behaviour under a large number of alternative economic scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over a period of time, typically 25 years or longer, and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, continue to be set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
The sensitivity of liabilities and other components of total capital vary depending upon the type of business concerned and this conditions the approach to asset liability management.
For example, for businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash ow analysis to create a portfolio of debt securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
This type of analysis is used in the UK for annuity business and by Jackson for its interest-sensitive and xed indexed annuities and stable value products.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the future returns on its investments under different scenarios which best reect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this methodology extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
f Intra-group arrangements in respect of SAIF Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benets in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds, under their obligation to maintain the capital position of long-term funds generally, having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 E: ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL INCLUDING US BROKER-DEALER STATEMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS 271 E: ASSET MANAGEMENT INCLUDING US BROKER-DEALER AND OTHER OPERATIONS E1: INCOME STATEMENT FOR ASSET MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS The Groups asset management operations are based in the UK, Asia and the US where they operate different models and under different brands tailored to their markets.
Asset management in the UK is undertaken through M&G which is made up of three distinct businesses, being Retail, Wholesale and Finance, and whose operations include retail asset management, institutional xed income, pooled life and pension funds, property and private finance.
Asset management in Asia serves both the life companies in Asia by managing the life funds and funds underlying the investment linked products and third-party customers through mutual fund business.
Asia offers mutual fund investment products in a number of countries within the region, allowing customers to participate in debt, equity and money market investments.
Asset management in the US is undertaken through PPM America which manages assets for the Groups US, UK and Asian afliates plus also provides investment services to other afliated and unafliated institutional clients including CDOs, private investment funds, institutional accounts and mutual funds.
In addition, broker-dealer activities are undertaken in the US where trades in securities are carried out for both third-party customers and for its own account.
Other operations covers unallocated corporate activities and includes the head ofce functions.
a The profit included in the income statement in respect of asset management operations for the year is as follows: Asset management operations 2010 m 2009 m M&G US Asia Total Total Revenue excluding revenue of consolidated investment funds and NPH broker-dealer fees 943 229 251 1,423 1,097 Revenue of consolidated investment funds 11 11 102 NPH broker-dealer fees 369 369 317 Gross revenue 954 598 251 1,803 1,516 Charges excluding revenue of consolidated investment funds and NPH broker-dealer fees 617 207 179 1,003 744 Charges of consolidated investment funds 11 11 102 NPH broker-dealer fees 369 369 317 Gross charges 628 576 179 1,383 1,163 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 326 22 72 420 353 Comprising: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 284 22 72 378 297 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 47 47 70 Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 5 5 14 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 326 22 72 420 353 Revenue in respect of consolidated investment funds.
The investment funds are managed on behalf of third-parties and are consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for the funds.
The gains losses in respect of the investment funds are non-recourse to M&G and the Group and are added back through charges and consequently there is no impact on the profit before tax.
NPH broker-dealer fees represents commissions received and then paid to the writing broker on sales of investment products.
Short-term fluctuations for M&G are primarily in respect of unrealised value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio.
Included within Asian asset management charges of 179 million are 60 million of commissions 2009: 57 million.
272 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E: ASSET MANAGEMENT INCLUDING US BROKER-DEALER AND OTHER OPERATIONS CONTINUED E1: INCOME STATEMENT FOR ASSET MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS CONTINUED b M&G operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: 2010 m 2009 m Asset management fee income 612 457 Other income 3 13 Staff costs 263 205 Other costs 123 100 Underlying profit before performance-related fees 229 165 Performance-related fees 17 12 Operating profit from asset management operations 246 177 Operating profit from Prudential Capital 38 61 Total M&G operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 284 238 The difference between the fees and other income shown above in respect of asset management operations, and the revenue gure for M&G shown excluding consolidated investment funds in the main table primarily relates to total revenue of Prudential Capital including short-term uctuations of 136 million 2009: 155 million and commissions which have been netted off in arriving at the fee income of 612 million 2009: 457 million in the table above.
The difference in the presentation of commission is aligned with how management reviews the business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 E: ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL INCLUDING US BROKER-DEALER STATEMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS 273 E2: STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION FOR ASSET MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS Assets, liabilities and shareholders funds included in the Group consolidated statement of financial position in respect of asset management operations are as follows: Asset management operations 2010 m 2009 m M&G US Asia Total Total note iii ASSETS Intangible assets: Goodwill 1,153 16 61 1,230 1,230 Deferred acquisition costs 9 9 8 Total 1,162 16 61 1,239 1,238 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 854 174 94 1,122 850 Financial investments: note i Loans 1,418 1,418 1,413 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 141 10 151 137 note ii Debt securities 1,560 14 1,574 1,164 note v Other investments 51 1 7 59 113 Deposits 33 22 25 80 63 Total financial investments 3,203 23 56 3,282 2,890 note v Cash and cash equivalents 1,269 39 128 1,436 970 TOTAL ASSETS 6,488 252 339 7,079 5,948 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Shareholders equity 1,407 122 258 1,787 1,659 Non-controlling interests 4 4 3 Total equity 1,411 122 258 1,791 1,662 LIABILITIES Core structural borrowing of shareholder-nanced operations 250 250 Intra Group debt represented by operational borrowings at note iv Group level 2,560 2,560 2,038 Net asset value attributable to external holders of consolidated note v unit trusts and similar funds 458 458 410 Other non-insurance liabilities 1,809 130 81 2,020 1,838 Total liabilities 5,077 130 81 5,288 4,286 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 6,488 252 339 7,079 5, 948 Notes i Loans The M&G loans of 1,418 million 2009: 1,413 million relate to loans and receivables managed by Prudential Capital.
These assets are generally secured but have no external credit ratings.
Internal ratings prepared by the Groups asset management operations as part of the risk management process, are 213 million A to A 2009: 92 million, 873 million BBB to BBB 2009: 835 million, 219 million BB to BB 2009: 330 million and 113 million B to B 2009: 156 million.
ii Debt securities Of the total debt securities of 1,574 million in 2010 2009: 1,164 million of which 1,560 relates to M&G 2009: 1,149 million, 1,468 million were rated AAA to A by Standard and Poors or Aaa rated by Moodys 2009: 1,072 million.
iii M&G includes those assets and liabilities in respect of Prudential Capital.
iv Intra Group debt represented by operational borrowings at Group level Operational borrowings for M&G are in respect of Prudential Capitals short-term fixed income security programme and comprise 2,311 million 2009: 2,031million of commercial paper and 249 million 2009: 7 million of medium-term notes.
v Consolidated investment funds The M&G statement of financial position shown above includes investment funds which are managed on behalf of third-parties.
In respect of these funds, the statement of financial position includes cash and cash equivalents of 304 million 2009: 269 million, 167 million of other investments 2009: 158 million, 13 million of other net assets and liabilities 2009: 17 million and the net asset value attributable to external unit holders of 458 million 2009: 410 million which are non-recourse to M&G and the Group.
274 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E: ASSET MANAGEMENT INCLUDING US BROKER-DEALER AND OTHER OPERATIONS CONTINUED E2: STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION FOR ASSET MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS CONTINUED Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the total investments of asset management operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: M&G US Asia Total m m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 Total investments including derivative assets 3,216 40 47 3,303 Less: Derivative liabilities 292 292 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 2,924 40 47 3,011 Net cash outow from operating activities 124 21 3 148 Realised gains in the year 34 34 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 48 4 4 56 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 138 25 7 170 AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 1 JANUARY 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 2,835 15 40 2,890 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 49 49 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 2,786 15 40 2,841 Net cash inow from operating activities 310 8 11 329 Realised gains in the year 11 11 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 18 5 23 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 339 8 16 363 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 3,203 23 56 3,282 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 78 78 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,125 23 56 3,204 E3: REGULATORY AND OTHER SURPLUS Certain asset management operations are subject to regulatory requirements.
The movement in the year of the surplus regulatory capital position of these operations, combined with the movement in the IFRS basis shareholders funds for unregulated asset management operations, is as follows: Asset management operations 2010 m 2009 m M&G US Asia Total Total REGULATORY AND OTHER SURPLUS Beginning of year 85 111 126 322 155 Gains during the year 245 12 55 312 97 Movement in capital requirement 9 32 23 125 Capital injection 11 9 Distributions made 152 4 38 194 37 Exchange movement 3 11 14 27 End of year 187 122 123 432 322 The movement in the year reects gains driven by profits generated during the year and also changes in regulatory requirements.
Distributions consist of dividends paid up to the parent company.
The M&G gures include those for Prudential Capital.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 E: ASSET MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL INCLUDING US BROKER-DEALER STATEMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS 275 E4: SENSITIVITY OF PROFIT AND EQUITY TO MARKET AND OTHER FINANCIAL RISK i Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asia and PPM America asset management operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase in the relevant Asian exchange rates would have reduced reported profit before tax attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill attributable to Asia and PPM America asset management operations, by 9 million 2009: 5 million and 28 million 2009: 23 million respectively.
ii Other sensitivities to other financial risks for asset management operations The principal sensitivities to other financial risk of asset management operations are credit risk on the bridging loan portfolio as described in note E2 of the Prudential Capital operation and the indirect effect of changes to market values of funds under management.
Due to the nature of the asset management operations there is limited direct sensitivity to movements in interest rates.
Total debt securities held at 31 December 2010 by asset management operations were 1,574 million 2009: 1,164 million, the majority of which are held by the Prudential Capital operation.
Debt securities held by M&G and Prudential Capital are in general variable rate bonds and so market value is limited in sensitivity to interest rate movements and consequently any change in interest rates would not have a material impact on profit or shareholders equity.
Asset management operations do not hold significant investments in property or equities.
E5: OTHER OPERATIONS Other operations consist of unallocated corporate activities relating to Group Head Ofce and the Asia regional head ofce, with net income and expenditure for the year of negative 450 million 2009: negative 395 million as detailed in note B1.
An analysis of the assets and liabilities of other operations is shown in note B6.
276 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES F1: SEGMENTAL INFORMATION Year ended 31 December 2010 m note E1 Insurance operations Asset management UnalloTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Gross premiums earned 6,371 11,817 6,380 24,568 24,568 Outward reinsurance premiums 128 83 146 357 357 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 6,243 11,734 6,234 24,211 24,211 note ii Investment return 14,374 4,576 2,744 186 1 3 21,884 115 21,769 Other income 233 24 139 768 597 248 1,961 295 1,666 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 20,850 16,286 9,117 954 598 251 48,056 410 47,646 Benets and claims 18,674 15,472 6,462 40,608 40,608 Outward reinsurers share of benets and claims 243 49 43 335 335 Movement in unallocated surplus note iv of with-profits funds 70 315 245 245 Benets and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance 18,361 15,423 6,734 40,518 40,518 Acquisition costs and other operating note F3 expenditure 1,093 395 1,662 628 576 179 4,533 266 4,799 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations 13 13 244 257 Total charges, net of reinsurance 19,454 15,831 8,396 628 576 179 45,064 510 45,574 profit loss before tax being tax attributable to shareholders and note i policyholders returns 1,396 455 721 326 22 72 2,992 920 2,072 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 536 75 611 611 profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 860 455 646 326 22 72 2,381 920 1,461 This is represented in the segmental analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 m Insurance operations Asset management UnalloTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 719 833 532 284 22 72 2,462 521 1,941 Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 116 378 114 47 101 22 123 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 5 5 10 10 Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 377 Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth investment 30 30 30 profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 860 455 646 326 22 72 2,381 920 1,461 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL F: INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENTS NOTES 277 Year ended 31 December 2009 m note E1 Insurance operations Asset management UnalloTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Gross premiums earned 5,757 9,197 5,345 20,299 20,299 Outward reinsurance premiums 122 82 119 323 323 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 5,635 9,115 5,226 19,976 19,976 note ii Investment return 17,366 5,070 4,357 420 68 74 27,355 466 26,889 Other income 176 18 110 379 432 143 1,222 12 1,234 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 23,177 14,167 9,693 799 500 217 48,553 454 48,099 Benets and claims 18,521 13,297 8,083 39,901 39,901 Outward reinsurers share of benets and claims 214 12 39 265 265 Movement in unallocated surplus of note iv with-profits funds 1,893 334 1,559 1,559 Benets and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance 20,200 13,285 7,710 41,195 41,195 Acquisition costs and other operating note F3 expenditure 1,508 383 1,536 505 496 162 4,590 18 4,572 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations 13 13 196 209 Loss on sale of Taiwan agency business 559 559 559 Total charges, net of reinsurance 21,708 13,681 9,805 505 496 162 46,357 178 46,535 profit loss before tax being tax attributable to shareholders and note i policyholders returns 1,469 486 112 294 4 55 2,196 632 1,564 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 750 68 818 818 profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 719 486 180 294 4 55 1,378 632 746 This is represented in the segmental analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 m Insurance operations Asset management UnalloTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 657 618 410 238 4 55 1,982 418 1,564 Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 108 132 31 70 77 200 123 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 46 14 60 14 74 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 621 621 621 profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 719 486 180 294 4 55 1,378 632 746 278 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES CONTINUED F1: SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Notes i The measure is the formal profit loss before tax measure under IFRS but is not the result attributable to shareholders.
ii Investment return principally comprises: Interest and dividends: Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities and derivatives classified as fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39: and Realised gains and losses, including impairment losses, on securities classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39. iii The Group has amended the presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations to remove the net equity hedge accounting effect incorporating related amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and include it in short-term fluctuations.
Note A4d ii explains the effect of the change.
iv The movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds for Asia above includes movement relating to the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
For the purpose of the presentation of unallocated surplus of with-profits funds within the statement of financial position, the Hong Kong branch balance is shown within the unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profits sub-fund.
F2: REVENUE 2010 m 2009 m LONG-TERM BUSINESS PREMIUMS Insurance contract premiums 23,647 19,347 Investment contracts with discretionary participation feature premiums 750 789 Inwards reinsurance premiums 171 163 Less: reinsurance premiums ceded 357 323 note iv Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 24,211 19,976 INVESTMENT RETURN Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities at fair value through profit and loss 14,728 18,175 Realised and unrealised losses and gains on derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 891 1,164 Realised losses on available-for-sale securities, previously recognised in other comprehensive income 51 420 Realised losses on loans 12 115 notes i, ii Interest 5,976 5,575 Dividends 1,394 1,755 Other investment return 625 755 Investment return 21,769 26,889 notes iii, iv FEE INCOME FROM INVESTMENT CONTRACT BUSINESS AND ASSET MANAGEMENT 1,666 1,234 TOTAL REVENUE 47,646 48,099 Notes i The segmental analysis of interest income is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Insurance operations: UK 4,371 3,848 US 1,014 1,051 Asia 412 522 Asset management operations: M&G 127 140 US 2 Asia 2 2 TOTAL SEGMENT 5,926 5,565 Unallocated corporate 50 10 TOTAL 5,976 5,575 ii Interest income includes 21 million 2009: 17 million accrued in respect of impaired securities.
iii Fee income includes 11 million 2009: 1 million relating to financial instruments that are not held at fair value through profit and loss.
These fees primarily related to prepayment fees, late fees and syndication fees.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL F: INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENTS NOTES 279 iv The following table provides additional segmental analysis of revenue from external customers: 2010 m Asia US UKIntragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 6,373 11,710 6,476 10 24,549 Asset management 248 597 768 314 1,299 Unallocated corporate 29 29 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 77 72 175 324 Total revenue from external customers 6,544 12,235 7,098 25,877 2009 m Asia US UKIntragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 5,336 9,097 5,822 11 20,244 Asset management 213 499 513 271 954 Unallocated corporate 12 12 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 70 67 145 282 Total revenue from external customers 5,479 9,529 6,202 21,210 Revenue from external customers is made up of the following: 2010 m 2009 m Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 24,211 19,976 Fee income from investment contract business and asset management included within Other income 1,666 1,234 Total revenue from external customers 25,877 21,210 In their capacity as fund managers to fellow Prudential Group subsidiaries, M&G, the US and the Asian asset management businesses earn fees for investment management and related services.
Intragroup fees included within asset management revenue were 314 million 2009: 271 million earned 165 million 2009: 134 million by M&G, 72 million 2009: 67 million by the US asset management segment and 77 million 2009: 70 million by the Asian asset management segment.
In 2010, the remaining 10 million 2009: 11 million of intragroup revenue was recognised by UK insurance operations.
These services are charged at appropriate arms length prices, typically priced as a percentage of funds under management.
Revenue from external customers of Asian, US and UK insurance operations shown above are net of outwards reinsurance premiums of 146 million, 83 million and 128 million respectively 2009: 119 million, 82 million and 122 million respectively.
In Asia, revenue from external customers from no individual country exceeds 10 per cent of the Group total.
The largest country is Hong Kong with a total revenue from external customers of 1,246 million 2009: 1,013 million.
Due to the nature of the business of the Group, there is no reliance on any major customers.
280 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES CONTINUED F3: ACQUISITION COSTS AND OTHER EXPENDITURE 2010 m 2009 m notes i, ii Acquisition costs incurred 2,024 1,796 Acquisition costs deferred less amortisation of acquisition costs 918 763 Administration costs and other expenditure 3,496 2,924 note v Movements in amounts attributable to external unit holders 197 615 notes iii, iv, vi 4,799 4,572 Total acquisition costs and other expenditure Notes i The acquisition costs as shown on the table above relate to policy acquisition costs.
Acquisition costs from business combinations are included within other expenditure.
Acquisition costs in 2010 comprise amounts related to insurance contracts of 941 million 2009: 871 million, and investment contracts and asset management contracts of 165 million 2009: 162 million.
ii There were no fee expenses relating to financial liabilities held at amortised cost included in acquisition costs in 2010 and 2009. iii The total depreciation and amortisation expense is 309 million 2009: 377 million.
Of this amount, 226 million 2009: 305 million relates to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs of insurance contracts and asset management contracts, which is primarily borne by the insurance operations.
The segmental analysis of total depreciation and amortisation expense is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Insurance operations: UK 35 25 US 6 88 Asia 258 246 Asset management operations: M&G 8 2 US 2 2 Asia 4 4 TOTAL SEGMENT 301 367 Unallocated corporate 8 10 TOTAL 309 377 iv Interest expense, excluding interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations, amounted to 113 million 2009: 89 million and is included within total acquisition costs and other operating expenditure as part of investment management expenses.
The segmental analysis of this interest expense is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Insurance operations: UK 28 28 US 33 32 Asia 13 1 Asset management operations: M&G 19 US Asia TOTAL SEGMENT 93 61 Unallocated corporate 20 28 TOTAL 113 89 v Movements in amounts attributable to external unit holders comprises 61 million 2009: 310 million for UK insurance operations 136 million 2009: 305 million for Asian insurance operations.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL F: INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENTS NOTES 281 vi The total amounts for acquisition costs and other expenditure shown above includes Corporate Expenditure shown in note B1 Segment disclosure income statement.
The charge for Corporate Expenditure comprises: 2010 m 2009 m Group head ofce: Regular and project costs 147 140 Provision for property leases and other non-recurrent items 25 6 172 146 Asia regional ofce: Gross costs 90 95 Recharges to Asia operations 42 38 48 57 Total 220 203 F4: FINANCE COSTS: INTEREST ON CORE STRUCTURAL BORROWINGS OF SHAREHOLDER-FINANCED OPERATIONS Finance costs consist of 244 million 2009: 196 million interest on core debt of the parent company and 13 million 2009: 13 million on US insurance operations surplus notes.
F5: TAX a Total tax charge by nature of expense An analysis of the total tax benefit expense of continuing operations recognised in the income statement by nature of benefit expense is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Current tax expense: Corporation tax 378 500 Adjustments in respect of prior years 287 29 Total current tax 91 529 Deferred tax arising from: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 518 340 Expense in respect of a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference from a prior period 27 4 Total deferred tax charge 545 344 Total tax charge 636 873 The total tax expense arises as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Current tax expense: UK 61 527 Foreign 30 2 91 529 Deferred tax charge credit: UK 252 368 Foreign 293 24 545 344 Total 636 873 282 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES CONTINUED F5: TAX CONTINUED The current tax charge of 91 million includes 13 million for 2010 2009: charge of 6 million in respect of the tax charge for Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong current tax charge is calculated as 16.5 per cent for all periods on either i five per cent of the net insurance premium or ii the estimated assessable profits, depending on the nature of the business written.
The total tax charge of 636 million for 2010 2009: charge of 873 million comprises a charge of 313 million 2009: charge of 895 million for UK tax and a charge of 323 million 2009: credit of 22 million for overseas tax.
This tax charge comprises tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders.
The tax charge attributable to shareholders of 25 million for 2010 2009: charge of 55 million comprises a credit of 187 million 2009: charge of 176 million for UK tax and a charge of 212 million 2009: credit of 121 million for overseas tax.
The tax charge attributable to shareholders returns includes an exceptional tax credit of 158 million which primarily relates to the impact of a settlement agreed with the UK Tax authorities.
This exceptional tax credit is recorded within Adjustments in respect of prior years.
In addition, adjustments in respect of prior years also includes other changes that arose as a result of routine revision of tax returns.
The total deferred tax charge arises as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Unrealised gains and losses on investments 217 35 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 28 12 Short-term timing differences 431 105 Capital allowances 8 1 Unused tax losses 139 193 Deferred tax charge 545 344 In 2010, a deferred tax charge of 287 million 2009: charge of 546 million has been taken through other comprehensive income.
Other movements in deferred tax totalling a 40 million charge is mainly comprised of foreign exchange movements.
When these amounts are taken with the deferred tax charge shown above the result is an increase of 0.9 billion in the Groups net deferred tax liability 2009: increase of 0.8 billion.
b Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax charge is attributable to shareholders and policyholders as summarised in the income statement.
i Summary of pre-tax profit and tax charge The income statement includes the following items: 2010 m 2009 m profit before tax 2,072 1,564 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 611 818 profit before tax attributable to shareholders 1,461 746 Tax attributable to shareholders profits: Tax charge 636 873 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 611 818 Tax charge attributable to shareholders returns 25 55 profit from continuing operations after tax 1,436 691 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL F: INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENTS NOTES 283 ii Overview For the purposes of explaining the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit, it is appropriate to consider the sources of profit and tax by reference to those that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders, as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to shareholders policyholders Total shareholders policyholders Total profit before tax 1,461 611 2,072 746 818 1,564 Taxation charge: Expected tax rate 28% 100% 49% 31% 100% 67% Expected tax charge 406 611 1,017 233 818 1,051 note v ii Variance from expected tax charge 381 381 178 178 Actual tax charge 25 611 636 55 818 873 Average effective tax rate 2% 100% 31% 7% 100% 56% For the column entitled Attributable to policyholders, the profit before tax represents income, net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Due to the requirements of the financial reporting standards IAS 1 and IAS 12, the profit loss before tax and tax charge reect the aggregate of amounts that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders.
profit loss before tax comprises profit attributable to shareholders and pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders of linked and with-profits funds and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
The total tax charge for linked and with-profits business includes tax expense on unit-linked and with-profits funds attributable to policyholders, the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and the shareholders profits.
This feature arises from the basis of taxation applied to life and pension business, principally in the UK, but with similar bases applying in certain Asian operations, and is explained in note iii below.
Furthermore, the basis of preparation of Prudentials financial statements incorporates the additional feature that, as permitted under IFRS 4, the residual equity of the Groups with-profits funds, i. e. unallocated surplus, is recorded as a liability with transfers to and from that liability reected in pre-tax profits.
This gives rise to anomalous effective tax rates for profits attributable to policyholders as described in note iv below.
In meeting the reconciliation requirements set out in paragraph 81 c of IAS 12, the presentation shown in this disclosure note seeks to ensure that the explanation of the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit draw properly the distinction between the elements of the profit and tax charge that are attributable to policyholders and shareholders as explained below in notes iv and v respectively.
Due to the nature of the basis of taxation of UK life and pension business as described in note iii below, and the signicance of the results of the business to the Group, it is inappropriate to seek to explain the effective tax rate on profit before tax by the traditional approach that would apply for other industries.
The shareholder elements are the components of the profit and tax charge that are of most direct relevance to investors, and it is this aspect that the IAS 12 reconciliation requirement is seeking to explain for companies that do not need to account for both with-profits and unit-linked funds, where tax is borne by the Company on the policyholders behalf and which is not contemplated by the IFRS requirement.
284 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES CONTINUED F5: TAX CONTINUED iii Basis of taxation for UK life and pension business Different rules apply under UK tax law for taxing pension business and life insurance business and there are detailed rules for apportioning the investment return and profits of the fund between the types of business.
The investment return referable to pension business, and some other less significant classes of business, is exempt from taxation, but tax is charged on the profit that shareholders derive from writing such business at the corporate rate of tax.
The rules for taxing life insurance business are more complex.
Initially, the UK regime seeks to tax the regulatory basis investment return less management expenses I-E on this business as it arises.
However, in determining the actual tax charge, a calculation of the shareholder profits for taxation purposes from writing life insurance business also has to be made and compared with the I-E profit.
If the shareholder profit is higher than the I-E amount, extra income is attributable to the I-E calculation until the I-E profit equals the shareholder profit.
If on the other hand, the I-E profit is the greater, then an amount equal to the shareholder profit is taxed at the corporate rate of tax, with the remainder of the I-E profit being taxed at the lower policyholder rate of tax.
The purpose of this approach is to ensure that the Company is always at a minimum taxed on the profit, as dened for taxation purposes by reference to the Companys regulatory returns rather than IFRS basis results, that it has earned.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate, with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
It is to be noted that the calculations described are determined using data from the regulatory basis returns rather than the IFRS basis results.
The differences between the regulatory and accounting bases are very significant and extremely complex, rendering any explanation in general purpose financial statements to be of little if any use to users.
iv Profits attributable to policyholders and related tax As noted above, it is necessary under IFRS requirements to include the total tax charge of the Company both policyholder and shareholder elements in the tax charge disclosed in the income statement.
For with-profits business, total pre-tax profits reect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
However, amounts attributable to the equity of with-profits funds are carried in the liability for unallocated surplus.
Also, as described in note iii, UK with-profits business is taxed on a basis that affects policyholders unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and shareholders.
For the PAC with-profits sub-fund, transfers to and from unallocated surplus are recorded in the income statement, so that after charging the total tax borne by the fund, the net balance reects the statutory transfer from the fund for the year.
The statutory transfer represents 10 per cent of the actuarially determined surplus for the year that is attributable to shareholders.
For SAIF, similar transfers are made.
However, in the case of SAIF, a net nil balance is derived, reecting the lack of shareholder interest in the financial performance of the fund other than through asset management arrangements.
The accounting anomaly that arises under IFRS is that due to the fact that the net of tax profit attributable to with-profits policyholders is zero, the Companys presentation of pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders reects an amount that is the mirror image of the tax charge attributable to policyholders.
For unit-linked business, pre-tax profits also reect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
The pre-tax profits attributable to policyholders represent fees earned that are used to pay tax borne by the Company on policyholders behalf.
The net of tax profit attributable to policyholders for unit-linked business is thus zero.
The combined effect of these features is such that providing a reconciliation of the tax charge attributable to policyholders to an expected charge based on the standard corporate rate of tax on IFRS basis profits attributable to policyholders is not relevant.
In summary, for accounting purposes, in all cases and for all reporting periods, the apparent effective rate for profit attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus is 100 per cent.
However, it is to be noted that the 100 per cent rate does not reect a rate paid on the profits attributable to policyholders.
It instead reects the basis of accounting for unallocated surplus coupled with the distinction made for performance reporting between sources of profit attributable to shareholders, policyholders and unallocated surplus and IFRS requirements in respect of reporting of all pre-tax profits and all tax charges irrespective of policyholder or shareholder economic interest.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL F: INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENTS NOTES 285 v Reconciliation of tax charge on profit attributable to shareholders for continuing operations: 2010 m except for tax rates Asian US UK insurance insurance insurance Other operations operations operations operations Total profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 532 833 719 143 1,941 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 114 378 116 25 123 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 5 5 10 Cost of terminated AIA transaction 377 377 Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth 30 30 Total 646 455 860 500 1,461 note i Expected tax rates: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 22% 35% 28% 28% 29% Short-term uctuations in investment returns 25% 35% 28% 28% 52% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 28% 28% 20% Cost of terminated AIA transaction 28% 28% Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth 28% 28% Expected tax charge credit based on expected tax rates: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 117 292 201 40 570 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 29 132 32 7 64 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 1 1 2 Cost of terminated AIA transaction 106 106 Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth 8 8 Total 146 160 240 140 406 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 59 43 18 237 357 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 21 7 28 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 1 1 Cost of terminated AIA transaction 13 13 Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth 8 8 Total 80 43 26 232 381 Actual tax charge credit: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, note iii excluding exceptional tax credit 58 249 183 119 371 Exceptional tax credit 158 158 Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 58 249 183 277 213 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 8 132 32 92 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 1 2 3 Cost of terminated AIA transaction 93 93 Gain on dilution of holding in PruHealth Total 66 117 214 372 25 Actual tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 11% 30% 25% 194% 11% Total profit 10% 26% 25% 74% 2% Actual tax rate excluding exceptional tax credit : Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 11% 30% 25% 83% 19% Total profit 10% 26% 25% 43% 13% The tax charge attributable to shareholders return includes an exceptional tax credit of 158 million which primarily relates to the impact of a settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities.
286 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES CONTINUED F5: TAX CONTINUED 2009 m except for tax rates Asian US UK insurance insurance insurance Other operations operations operations operations Total profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 410 618 657 121 1,564 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 31 132 108 130 123 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 46 28 74 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 621 621 Total 180 486 719 279 746 note i Expected tax rates: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 24% 35% 28% 28% 30% Short-term uctuations in investment returns 25% 35% 28% 36% 45% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 28% 28% 28% Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 25% 25% Expected tax charge credit based on expected tax rates: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 98 216 184 34 464 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 8 46 30 47 55 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 13 8 21 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 155 155 Total 49 170 201 89 233 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 35 76 29 8 90 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 15 196 14 225 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 137 137 Total 87 272 29 22 178 Actual tax charge credit: note iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 63 140 213 42 374 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 7 242 30 61 280 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes 13 8 21 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 18 18 Total 38 102 230 111 55 Actual tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 15% 23% 32% 35% 24% Total profit 21 % 21 % 32% 40% 7% The Group has amended the presentation of operating profit for its US insurance operations to remove the net equity hedge accounting effect incorporating related amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and include it in short-term fluctuations.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL F: INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENTS NOTES 287 Notes i Expected tax rates for profit loss attributable to shareholders: The expected tax rates shown in the table above reflect the corporation tax rates generally applied to taxable profits of the relevant country jurisdictions.
For Asian operations the expected tax rates reflect the corporation tax rates weighted by reference to the source of profits of operations contributing to the aggregate business result.
The expected tax rate for Other operations reflects the mix of business between UK and overseas operations, which are taxed at a variety of rates.
The rates will fluctuate from year to year dependent on the mix of profits.
ii For 2010 and 2009, the principal variances arise from a number of factors, including: a Asian long-term operations For 2010 and 2009, profits in certain countries which are not taxable partly offset by the inability to fully recognise deferred tax assets on losses being carried forward.
b Jackson For 2010, the benefit of a deduction from taxable income of a proportion of dividends received attributable to the variable annuity business.
For 2009, the ability to fully recognise deferred tax assets on losses brought forward which we were previously unable to recognise together with income subject to a lower level of taxation and the benefit of a deduction from taxable income of a proportion of dividends received attributable to the variable annuity business.
c UK insurance operations For 2010, routine revisions to prior period tax returns.
For 2009, adjustments in respect of prior year tax charge and different tax bases of UK life business.
d Other operations For 2010, an exceptional tax credit which primarily relates to the impact of the settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities and the ability to recognise a deferred tax credit on various tax losses which we were previously unable to recognise, partly offset by the inability to fully recognise a tax credit in respect of non deductible capital costs incurred in relation to the terminated AIA transaction.
For 2009, the ability to recognise a deferred tax asset on various tax losses which we were previously unable to recognise partly offset by adjustments in respect of the prior year tax charge.
e For 2009, the actual tax rate in relation to Asia excluding the result for the sold Taiwan agency business would have been 13 per cent.
iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is net of attributable restructuring costs and development expenses.
288 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES CONTINUED F6: ALLOCATION OF INVESTMENT RETURN BETWEEN POLICYHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS Investment return is attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
A key feature of the accounting policies under IFRS is that the investment return included in the income statement relates to all investment assets of the Group, irrespective of whether the return is attributable to shareholders, or to policyholders or the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, the latter two of which have no net impact on shareholders profit.
The table below provides a breakdown of the investment return for each regional operation attributable to each type of business.
2010 m 2009 m ASIAN OPERATIONS Policyholder returns Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 1,279 2,539 With-profits business 1,039 1,519 2,318 4,058 Shareholder returns 429 373 Total 2,747 4,431 US OPERATIONS Policyholder returns Assets held to back separate account unit-linked liabilities 3,520 3,760 Shareholder returns Realised gains and losses including impairment losses on available-for-sale bonds 21 529 Value movements on derivative hedging programme for general account business 20 340 Interest dividend income and value movements on other financial instruments for which fair value movements are booked in the income statement 1,016 1,567 1,057 1,378 Total 4,577 5,138 UK OPERATIONS Policyholder returns Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF 1,075 1,438 Assets held to back unit-linked liabilities 2,119 2,947 With-profits fund excluding SAIF 8,815 10,461 12,009 14,846 Shareholder returns Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL 1,717 1,827 Other business 834 1,113 2,551 2,940 Total 14,560 17,786 UNALLOCATED CORPORATE Shareholder returns 115 466 GROUP TOTAL Policyholder returns 17,847 22,664 Shareholder returns 3,922 4,225 Total 21,769 26,889 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL F: INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENTS NOTES 289 The returns as shown in the table above, are delineated between those returns allocated to policyholders and those allocated to shareholders.
In making this distinction, returns allocated to policyholders are those from investments in which shareholders have no direct economic interest, namely: unit-linked business in the UK, Asia and SAIF in the UK, for which the investment return is wholly attributable to policyholders: separate account business of US operations, the investment return of which is also wholly attributable to policyholders: and with-profits business excluding SAIF in the UK and Asia in which the shareholders economic interest, and the basis of recognising IFRS basis profits, is restricted to a share of the actuarially determined surplus for distribution in the UK 10 per cent.
Except for this surplus the investment return of the with-profit funds is attributable to policyholders through the asset-share liabilities or the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability under IFRS 4.
The investment return related to the types of business above does not impact shareholders profits directly.
However, there is an indirect impact, for example, investment-related fees or the effect of investment return on the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses of with-profits funds.
Investment returns for unit-linked and similar products have reciprocal impact on benets and claims, with a decrease in market returns on the attached pool of assets affecting policyholder benets on these products.
Similarly for with-profits funds there is a close correlation between increases or decreases in investment returns and the level of combined charge for policyholder benets and movement on unallocated surplus that arises from such returns.
Shareholder returns For shareholder-backed non-participating business of the UK comprising PRIL and other non-linked non-participating business and of the Asian operations, the investment return is not directly attributable to policyholders and therefore does impact shareholders profit directly.
However, it should be noted that for UK shareholder-backed annuity business, principally PRIL, where the durations of asset and liability cash ows are closely matched, the discount rate applied to measure liabilities to policyholders under grandfathered UK GAAP and under IFRS 4 reects movements in asset yields after allowances for the future defaults of the backing portfolios.
Therefore, the net impact on the shareholders profits of the investment return of the assets backing liabilities of the UK shareholderbacked annuity business is after taking into account the consequential effect on the movement in policyholder liabilities.
Changes in shareholder investment returns for US operations reect primarily movements in the investment income, movements in the value of the derivative instruments held to manage the general account assets and liability portfolio, and realised gains and losses.
However, separately reecting Jacksons types of business an allocation is made to policyholders through the application of crediting rates.
The shareholder investment return for US operations also includes the fair value movement of the derivatives and the movement on the related liabilities of the variable annuity guarantees under Jacksons dynamic hedging programme.
The majority of the investments held to back the US non-participating business are debt securities for which the available-for-sale designation is applied for IFRS basis reporting.
Under this designation the return included in the income statement reects the aggregate of investment income and realised gains and losses including impairment losses.
However, movements in unrealised appreciation or depreciation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The return on these assets is attributable to shareholders.
290 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F: INCOME STATEMENT NOTES CONTINUED F7: BENEFITS AND CLAIMS AND MOVEMENTS IN UNALLOCATED SURPLUS OF WITH-PROFITS FUNDS, NET OF REINSURANCE Benets and claims represent payments, including final bonuses, to policyholders in respect of maturities, surrenders and deaths plus the change in technical provisions which primarily represents the movement in amounts owed to policyholders.
Benets and claims are amounts attributable to policyholders.
The movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds represents the transfer to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement of the annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders.
Benets and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds net of reinsurance can be further analysed as follows: 2010 m Asia US UK Total Claims incurred 2,595 4,348 9,941 16,884 Increase in policyholder liabilities 3,824 11,075 8,490 23,389 Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 315 70 245 6,734 15,423 18,361 40,518 2009 m Asia US UK Total Claims incurred 1,814 4,092 9,875 15,781 Increase in policyholder liabilities 6,230 9,193 8,432 23,855 Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 334 1,893 1,559 7,710 13,285 20,200 41,195 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 291 G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES G1: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATION AND FAIR VALUES The Group designates all financial assets as either fair value through profit and loss, available-for-sale, or as loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are designated as either fair value through profit and loss, amortised cost, or as investment contracts with discretionary participation features accounted for under IFRS 4 as described in note A4.
2010 m Fair value through Total profit AvailableLoans and carrying and loss for-sale Receivables value Fair value FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 6,631 6,631 6,631 Deposits 9,952 9,952 9,952 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 86,635 86,635 86,635 note i Debt securities 90,027 26,325 116,352 116,352 note ii Loans 227 9,034 9,261 9,083 note iii Other investments 5,779 5,779 5,779 Accrued investment income 2,668 2,668 2,668 Other debtors 903 903 903 182,668 26,325 29,188 238,181 2010 m Fair value through Total profit Amortised IFRS 4 carrying v and loss cost basic value value Fair value FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced notes i, H13 operations 3,676 3,676 3,866 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-nanced operations 3,004 3,004 2,991 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 82 1,440 1,522 1,524 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,199 4,199 4,236 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,372 3,372 3,372 Investment contracts with discretionary note iv participation features 25,732 25,732 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 15,822 1,882 17,704 17,652 Other creditors 2,321 2,321 2,321 Derivative liabilities 2,037 2,037 2,037 Other liabilities 1,129 1,129 1,129 21,313 17,651 25,732 64,696 292 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G1: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATION AND FAIR VALUES CONTINUED 2009 m Fair value through Total profit AvailableLoans and carrying and loss for-sale Receivables value Fair value FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 5,307 5,307 5,307 Deposits 12,820 12,820 12,820 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 69,354 69,354 69,354 note i Debt securities 79,083 22,668 101,751 101,751 note ii Loans 8,754 8,754 8,686 note iii Other investments 5,132 5,132 5,132 Accrued investment income 2,473 2,473 2,473 Other debtors 762 762 762 153,569 22,668 30,116 206,353 2009 m Fair value through Total profit Amortised IFRS 4 carrying v and loss cost basic value value Fair value FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced notes i, H13 operations 3,394 3,394 3,424 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-nanced operations 2,751 2,751 2,751 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 105 1,179 1,284 1,281 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,482 3,482 3,540 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,809 3,809 3,809 Investment contracts with discretionary note iv participation features 24,880 24,880 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 13,840 1,965 15,805 15,866 Other creditors 1,612 1,612 1,612 Derivative liabilities 1,501 1,501 1,501 Other liabilities 877 877 877 19,255 15,260 24,880 59,395 Notes i As at 31 December 2010, 685 million 2009: 659 million of convertible bonds were included in debt securities and 352 million 2009: 347 million were included in borrowings.
ii Loans and receivables are reported net of allowance for loan losses of 52 million 2009: 44 million.
iii See note G3 for details of the derivative assets included.
The balance also contains the PAC with-profits funds participation in various investment funds and limited liability property partnerships.
iv It is impractical to determine the fair value of investment contracts with discretionary participation features due to the lack of a reliable basis to measure such features.
v For financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss there was no impact on profit from movements in credit risk during 2010 and 2009.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 293 Determination of fair value The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities as shown in the table above have been determined on the following bases.
The fair values of the financial instruments for which fair valuation is required under IFRS are determined by the use of current market bid prices for exchange-quoted investments, or by using quotations from independent third-parties, such as brokers and pricing services or by using appropriate valuation techniques.
Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which by their nature do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions, e. g. market illiquidity.
The valuation techniques used include comparison to recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash ow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation.
These techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
When determining the inputs into the valuation techniques used priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources, when available, but overall the source of pricing is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The fair value estimates are made at a specic point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash ows and the credit standing of counterparties.
Such estimates do not reect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Groups entire holdings of a particular financial instrument, nor do they consider the tax impact of the realisation of unrealised gains or losses from selling the financial instrument being fair valued.
In some cases the disclosed value cannot be realised in immediate settlement of the financial instrument.
The loans and receivables have been shown net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans has been estimated from discounted cash ows expected to be received.
The rate of discount used was the market rate of interest.
The estimated fair value of derivative financial instruments reects the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay in an arms length transaction.
This amount is determined using quoted prices if exchange listed, quotations from independent third-parties or valued internally using standard market practices.
In accordance with the Groups risk management framework, all internally generated valuations are subject to assessment against external counterparties valuations.
For investment contracts in the US with xed and guaranteed terms the fair value is determined based on the present value of future cash ows discounted at current interest rates.
The fair value of other financial liabilities is determined using discounted cash ows of the amounts expected to be paid.
Level 1, 2 and 3 fair value measurement hierarchy of Group financial instruments In March 2009, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was amended by the IASB to require certain additional disclosures to be included in IFRS financial statements.
This includes, as is presented below, a table of financial instruments carried at fair value analysed by level of the IFRS 7 dened fair value hierarchy.
This hierarchy is based on the inputs of the fair value measurement and reects the lowest level input that is significant to that measurement.
The classication criteria and its application to Prudential can be summarised as follows: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 1 principally includes exchange listed equities, mutual funds with quoted prices, exchange traded derivatives such as futures and options, and national government bonds unless there is evidence that trading in a given instrument is so infrequent that the market could not possibly be considered active.
It also includes other financial instruments including net assets attributable to unit-holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds where there is clear evidence that the year end valuation is based on a traded price in an active market.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 2 principally includes corporate bonds and other non-national government debt securities which are valued using observable inputs, together with over-the-counter derivatives such as forward exchange contracts and non-quoted investment funds valued with observable inputs.
It also includes net assets attributable to unit-holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds and investment contract liabilities that are valued using observable inputs.
The nature of Prudentials operations in the US and the UK mean that a significant proportion of the assets backing non-linked shareholder-backed business are held in corporate bonds, structured securities and other non-national government debt securities.
These assets, in line with market practice, are generally valued using independent pricing providers in the US and third-party broker quotes in the UK and Asia either directly or via third-parties, such as IDC or Bloomberg.
Such assets are generally classied as level 2 as the nature of these quotations means that they do not strictly meet the denition of level 1 assets.
These valuations are determined using independent external quotations from multiple sources and are subject to a number of monitoring controls, such as monthly price variances, stale price reviews and variance analysis on prices achieved on subsequent trades.
Pricing services, where available, are used to obtain the third-party broker quotes.
Where pricing services providers are used, a single valuation is obtained and applied.
294 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G1: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATION AND FAIR VALUES CONTINUED When prices are not available from pricing services, quotes are sourced directly from brokers.
Prudential seeks to obtain a number of quotes from different brokers so as to obtain the most comprehensive information available on their executability.
Where quotes are sourced directly from brokers, the price used in the valuation is normally selected from one of the quotes based on a number of factors, including the timeliness and regularity of the quotes and the accuracy of the quotes considering the spreads provided.
The selected quote is the one which best represents an executable quote for the security at the measurement date.
Generally, no adjustment is made to the prices obtained from independent third-parties.
Adjustment is made in only limited circumstances, where it is determined that the third-party valuations obtained do not reect fair value e. g. either because the value is stale and or the values are extremely diverse in range.
These are usually securities which are distressed or that could be subject to a debt restructure or where reliable market prices are no longer available due to an inactive market or market dislocation.
In these instances, prices are derived using internal valuation techniques including those as described above in this note with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The techniques used require a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Examples of such variables include an average credit spread based on the corporate bond universe and the relevant duration of the asset being valued.
Prudential measures the input assumptions based on the best available information at the measurement dates.
Securities valued in such manner are classied as level 3 where these significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
In addition level 2 includes debt securities that are valued internally using standard market practices.
Of the total level 2 debt securities of 89,948 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 83,301 million, 6,638 million are valued internally 2009: 6,426 million.
The majority of such securities are valued using matrix pricing, which is based on assessing the credit quality of the underlying borrower to derive a suitable discount rate relative to government securities of a comparable duration.
Under matrix pricing, the debt securities are priced taking the credit spreads on comparable quoted public debt securities and applying these to the equivalent debt instruments factoring a specified liquidity premium.
The majority of the parameters used in this valuation technique are readily observable in the market and, therefore, are not subject to interpretation.
Level 3: significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 principally includes investments in private equity funds, investments in property funds which are exposed to bespoke properties or risks, investments which are internally valued or subject to a significant number of unobservable assumptions and certain derivatives which are bespoke or long dated.
It also includes debt securities which are rarely traded or traded only in privately negotiated transactions and hence where it is difficult to assert that these have been based on observable market data.
The inherent nature of the vast majority of these assets means that, in normal market conditions, there is unlikely to be significant change in the specic underlying assets classied as level 3.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held 4,194 million 2009: 5,190 million, two per cent of the fair valued financial instruments 2009: three per cent, within level 3.
Of these amounts 3,359 million 2009: 3,510 million was held by the Groups participating funds and therefore shareholders profit and equity are not impacted by movements in the valuation of these financial instruments.
Total level 3 assets represented 3.3 per cent of the total assets of the participating funds at 31 December 2010 2009: 3.7 per cent.
Total level 3 liabilities at 31 December 2010 were 371 million out of total participating fund liabilities of 112,196 million 2009: 348 million out of 104,817 million.
Of the 866 million level 3 fair valued financial investments at 31 December 2010 2009: 1,684 million, net of derivative liabilities which support non-linked shareholder-backed business 1.6 per cent of the total financial investments net of derivative liabilities backing this business 2009: 3.6 per cent, 728 million are externally valued and 138 million are internally valued 2009: 1,653 million and 31 million respectively.
Internal valuations, which represent 0.2 per cent of the total financial investments net of derivative liabilities supporting non-linked shareholder-backed business at 31 December 2010 2009: 0.06 per cent, are inherently more subjective than external valuations.
If the value of all level 3 investments backing non-linked shareholder-backed business was varied downwards by 10 per cent, the change in valuation would be 14 million 2009: 3 million, which would reduce shareholders equity by this amount before tax.
Of this amount a 7 million decrease 2009: 5 million increase would pass through the income statement substantially as part of short-term uctuations in investment returns outside of operating profit and a 7 million decrease 2009: offset by an 8 million decrease would be included as part of other comprehensive income, being unrealised movements on assets classied as available-for-sale.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 295 31 December 2010 m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total WITH-PROFITS Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 29,675 1,281 415 31,371 Debt securities 11,114 41,375 772 53,261 Other investments including derivative assets 137 1,207 2,543 3,887 Derivative liabilities 56 626 25 707 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 40,870 43,237 3,705 87,812 Borrowings attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 82 82 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 519 511 346 1,376 Total 40,351 42,644 3,359 86,354 Percentage of total 47% 49% 4% 100% UNIT-LINKED AND VARIABLE ANNUITY SEPARATE ACCOUNT Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 54,272 2 54,274 Debt securities 3,784 5,268 2 9,054 Other investments including derivative assets 43 88 131 Derivative liabilities Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 58,099 5,358 2 63,459 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 13,841 13,841 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,360 1,360 Total 56,739 8,483 2 48,258 Percentage of total 118% 18 % 100% NON-LINKED SHAREHOLDER-BACKED Loans 227 227 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 808 21 161 990 Debt securities 10,389 43,305 343 54,037 Other investments including derivative assets 52 1,146 563 1,761 Derivative liabilities 80 1,049 201 1,330 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 11,169 43,650 866 55,685 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 1,981 1,981 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 220 383 33 636 Total 10,949 41,286 833 53,068 Percentage of total 20% 78% 2% 100% GROUP TOTAL Loans 227 227 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 84,755 1,304 576 86,635 Debt securities 25,287 89,948 1,117 116,352 Other investments including derivative assets 232 2,441 3,106 5,779 Derivative liabilities 136 1,675 226 2,037 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 110,138 92,245 4,573 206,956 Borrowings attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 82 82 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 15,822 15,822 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,099 894 379 3,372 Total 108,039 75,447 4,194 187,680 Percentage of total 58% 40% 2% 100% 296 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G1: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATION AND FAIR VALUES CONTINUED 31 December 2009 m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total WITH-PROFITS Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 28,688 799 475 29,962 Debt securities 7,063 39,051 1,213 47,327 Other investments including derivative assets 79 1,199 2,170 3,448 Derivative liabilities 54 504 25 583 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 35,776 40,545 3,833 80,154 Borrowings attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 105 105 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,354 305 323 1,982 Total 34,422 40,135 3,510 78,067 Percentage of total 44% 51% 5% 100% UNIT-LINKED AND VARIABLE ANNUITY SEPARATE ACCOUNT Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 38,616 4 38,620 Debt securities 3,283 5,525 40 8,848 Other investments including derivative assets 30 80 110 Derivative liabilities Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 41,929 5,609 40 47,578 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 12,242 12,242 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,324 7 2 1,333 Total 40,605 6,640 38 34,003 Percentage of total 119% 19 % 0% 100% NON-LINKED SHAREHOLDER-BACKED Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 557 36 179 772 Debt securities 5,783 38,725 1,068 45,576 Other investments including derivative assets 155 787 632 1,574 Derivative liabilities 20 703 195 918 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 6,475 38,845 1,684 47,004 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 1,598 1,598 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 110 342 42 494 Total 6,365 36,905 1,642 44,912 Percentage of total 14% 82% 4% 100% GROUP TOTAL Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 67,861 839 654 69,354 Debt securities 16,129 83,301 2,321 101,751 Other investments including derivative assets 264 2,066 2,802 5,132 Derivative liabilities 74 1,207 220 1,501 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 84,180 84,999 5,557 174,736 Borrowings attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 105 105 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 13,840 13,840 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,788 654 367 3,809 Total 81,392 70,400 5,190 156,982 Percentage of total 52% 45% 3% 100% Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 297 Reconciliation of movements in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value The following tables reconcile the value of level 3 financial instruments at 1 January 2010 to that presented at 31 December 2010 and at 1 January 2009 to that presented at 31 December 2009.
Total gains and losses recorded in the income statement in the year represents realised gains and losses, including interest and dividend income unrealised gains and losses on financial instruments classied at fair value through profit and loss and foreign exchange movements on an individual entitys overseas investments.
All these amounts are included within investment return within the income statement.
Total gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income includes unrealised gains and losses on debt securities held as available-for-sale within Jackson and foreign exchange movements arising from the retranslation of the Groups overseas subsidiaries and branches.
The transfers out from level 3 during 2010 comprise mainly transfers within the Jacksons portfolio.
Certain broker-priced assets of Jackson were previously classied as level 3 holdings as a result of illiquidity in the market and the resultant lack of observability into the assumptions used to produce those fair values.
During 2010, as a result of ongoing consideration regarding the use of assumptions by pricing sources and the changes in the level of observability of these inputs over recent periods, Jackson determined that these assets would be more appropriately categorised as level 2.
As a result, Jackson transferred debt securities of 606 million and derivative assets of 101 million from level 3 to level 2.
The remaining transfers out of level 3 of the Group are primarily debt securities reclassications from level 3 to level 2 which reect improving liquidity during the period.
The transfers out from level 3 during 2009 included a transfer of 2,072 million from level 3 to level 2 in respect of structured securities of Jackson.
At 31 December 2008, Jackson had utilised internal valuations for certain structured securities given the illiquidity of the market at that time.
These assets had therefore been classied as level 3 given the unobservable nature of assumptions within the internal valuation models used.
During the first half of 2009, improvements were observed in the level of liquidity for these structured securities such that external prices based on observable inputs from pricing services or brokers were used to value nearly all of the structured securities at 31 December 2009.
The remaining transfers in and out of level 3 in 2009 represented sundry individual asset reclassications, none of which are materially significant as highlighted in the table below.
298 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G1: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATION AND FAIR VALUES CONTINUED Total gains losses Total recorded gains in other losses in compreTransfers Transfers At At 1 Jan income hensive into out of 31 Dec 2010 statement income Purchases Sales Settled level 3 level 3 2010 m m m m m m m m m WITH-PROFITS Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 475 6 48 59 43 415 Debt securities 1,213 113 18 15 158 34 11 180 772 Other investments including derivative assets 2,170 309 5 372 312 1 2,543 Derivative liabilities 25 25 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,833 190 23 435 529 34 11 224 3,705 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 323 32 9 346 Total 3,510 158 23 444 529 34 11 224 3,359 UNIT-LINKED AND VARIABLE ANNUITY SEPARATE ACCOUNTS Debt securities 40 3 2 4 18 21 2 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 40 3 2 4 18 21 2 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2 2 Total 38 3 2 4 18 19 2 NON-LINKED SHAREHOLDER-BACKED Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 179 43 5 30 95 2 3 161 Debt securities 1,068 49 72 46 213 27 61 713 343 Other investments including derivative assets 632 15 32 129 144 101 563 Derivative liabilities 195 5 1 201 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 1,684 102 108 205 452 27 63 817 866 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 42 17 1 16 43 33 Total 1,642 85 107 189 409 27 63 817 833 GROUP TOTAL Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 654 37 5 78 154 2 46 576 Debt securities 2,321 64 93 63 375 79 72 914 1,117 Other investments including derivative assets 2,802 324 37 501 456 102 3,106 Derivative liabilities 220 5 1 226 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 5,557 292 134 642 985 79 74 1,062 4,573 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 367 49 1 7 43 2 379 Total 5,190 243 133 635 942 79 74 1,060 4,194 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 299 Total gains losses Total recorded gains in other losses in compreTransfers Transfers At At 1 Jan income hensive into out of 31 Dec 2009 statement income Purchases Sales Settled level 3 level 3 2009 m m m m m m m m m WITH-PROFITS Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 509 3 1 26 56 475 Debt securities 1,342 14 11 50 225 17 142 54 1,213 Other investments including derivative assets 2,122 211 89 403 55 2,170 Derivative liabilities 2 23 25 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,973 230 101 479 359 17 142 54 3,833 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 381 9 49 323 Total 3,592 221 101 528 359 17 142 54 3,510 UNIT-LINKED AND VARIABLE ANNUITY SEPARATE ACCOUNT Debt securities 33 2 1 16 8 4 40 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 33 2 1 16 8 4 40 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1 1 2 Total 33 2 1 15 8 1 4 38 NON-LINKED SHAREHOLDER-BACKED Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 318 47 34 21 55 24 179 Debt securities 3,996 15 565 104 473 2 200 2,177 1,068 Other investments including derivative assets 692 130 76 153 308 43 2 632 Derivative liabilities 246 93 64 23 1 195 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 4,760 161 675 214 813 2 242 2,203 1,684 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 65 17 6 42 Total 4,695 178 669 214 813 2 242 2,203 1,642 GROUP TOTAL Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 827 50 35 47 111 24 654 Debt securities 5,371 27 575 170 698 27 342 2,235 2,321 Other investments including derivative assets 2,814 81 165 556 363 43 2 2,802 Derivative liabilities 246 91 64 1 220 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 8,766 67 775 709 1,172 27 384 2,261 5,557 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 446 26 6 48 1 367 Total 8,320 41 769 757 1,172 27 383 2,261 5,190 300 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G1: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATION AND FAIR VALUES CONTINUED Of the total gains and losses in the income statement in 2010 of 243 million gains, 315 million relates to financial instruments still held at the end of the year, which can be analysed as 18 million for equity securities, 110 million for debt securities, 243 million for other investments, 6 million for derivative liabilities and 50 million for net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
Of the total gains and losses in the income statement in 2009 of 41 million losses, 205 million relates to financial instruments still held at the end of the year, which can be analysed as 41 million losses for equity securities, 44 million losses for debt securities, 221 million losses for other investments, 76 million gains for derivative liabilities and 25 million gains for net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
Transfers between level 1 and level 2 During 2010, transfers from level 1 to level 2 amounted to 354 million in respect of certain investment funds held by the Groups participating funds which arose to reect the change in the observability of the inputs used in valuing these funds.
There were no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2 during 2009.
Interest income and expense The interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2010 from continuing operations was 1,994 million 2009: 1,998 million.
The interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2010 from continuing operations was 427 million 2009: 366 million.
G2: MARKET RISK Interest rate risk The following table shows an analysis of the classes of financial assets and liabilities and their direct exposure to interest rate risk.
Each applicable class of the Groups financial assets or liabilities is analysed between those exposed to fair value interest rate risk, cash ow interest rate risk and those with no direct interest rate risk exposure: 2010 m Not directly Fair value Cash flow exposed to interest interest interest rate risk rate risk rate risk Total FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 6,631 6,631 Deposits 887 8,941 124 9,952 Debt securities 110,168 5,824 360 116,352 Loans 6,238 3,001 22 9,261 Other investments including derivatives 1,616 448 3,715 5,779 118,909 18,214 10,852 147,975 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations 3,676 3,676 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-nanced operations 2,624 377 3 3,004 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 679 710 133 1,522 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 631 3,568 4,199 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 988 894 15,822 17,704 Derivative liabilities 705 431 901 2,037 Other liabilities 121 129 879 1,129 9,424 6,109 17,738 33,271 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 301 2009 m Not directly Fair value Cash flow exposed to interest interest interest rate risk rate risk rate risk Total FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 5,307 5,307 Deposits 896 11,884 40 12,820 Debt securities 95,817 5,550 384 101,751 Loans 5,923 2,816 15 8,754 Other investments including derivatives 1,381 368 3,383 5,132 104,017 20,618 9,129 133,764 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations 3,394 3,394 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-nanced operations 2,128 620 3 2,751 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 804 312 168 1,284 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 611 2,871 3,482 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 1,098 867 13,840 15,805 Derivative liabilities 647 286 568 1,501 Other liabilities 79 92 706 877 8,761 5,048 15,285 29,094 Liquidity analysis i Contractual maturities of financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual maturities for applicable classes of financial liabilities, excluding derivative liabilities and investment contracts that are separately presented.
The financial liabilities are included in the column relating to the contractual maturities at the undiscounted cash ows including contractual interest payments due to be paid assuming conditions are consistent with those of year end.
2010 m Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 carrying 1 year year to years to years to years to Over No stated value or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity Total FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-nanced operations 3,676 164 861 731 1,314 835 1,244 1,469 6,618 Operational borrowings attributable H13 to shareholder-nanced operations 3,004 2,510 561333 10 3,090 Borrowings attributable to H13 with-profits funds 1,522 155 1,051 161 2 2 121 182 1,674 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,199 4,199 4,199 Other liabilities 1,129 867 16 50 196 1,129 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit-trusts and similar funds 3,372 3,372 3,372 Other creditors 2,321 2,321 2,321 19,223 13,588 2,489 945 1,319 840 1,375 1,847 22,403 302 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G2: MARKET RISK CONTINUED 2009 m Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 carrying 1 year year to years to years to years to Over No stated value or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity Total FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-nanced operations 3,394 148 588 733 1,394 877 1,343 1,422 6,505 Operational borrowings attributable H13 to shareholder-nanced operations 2,751 2,351 435999 31 2,844 Borrowings attributable to H13 with-profits funds 1,284 228 882 102 205 1,417 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,482 3,482 3,482 Other liabilities 877 643 11 14 211 879 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit-trusts and similar funds 3,809 3,809 3,809 Other creditors 1,612 1,612 1,612 17,209 12,273 1,916 858 1,403 886 1,374 1,838 20,548 ii Maturity analysis of derivatives The following table provides a maturity analysis of derivative assets and liabilities: 2010 m Total After 1 After 3 carrying 1 year year to years to After value or less 3 years 5 years 5 years Total Net derivative position 2112 2009 m Total After 1 After 3 carrying 1 year year to years to After value or less 3 years 5 years 5 years Total Net derivative position 279 340 10 1 349 The net derivative positions as shown in the table above comprise the following derivative assets and liabilities: 2010 m 2009 m Derivative assets 2,039 1,780 Derivative liabilities 2,037 1,501 Net derivative position 2 279 The majority of derivative assets and liabilities have been included at fair value within the one year or less column representing the basis on which they are managed i. e. to manage principally asset or liability value exposures.
Contractual maturities are not considered essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash ows for these instruments and in particular the Group has no cash ow hedges.
The only exception is certain identied interest rate swaps which are fully expected to be held until maturity solely for the purposes of matching cash ows on separately held assets and liabilities.
For these instruments the undiscounted cash ows including contractual interest amounts due to be paid under the swap contract assuming conditions are consistent with those at year end are included in the column relating to the contractual maturity of the derivative.
The table below shows the maturity prole for investment contracts on an undiscounted basis to the nearest billion.
This maturity prole has been based on the cash ow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 303 2010 bn Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 undis- 1 year year to years to years to years to Over counted Carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value value Life assurance investment contracts 312151412157143 2009 bn Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 undis- 1 year year to years to years to years to Over counted Carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value value Life assurance investment contracts 3 11 13 13 11 17 68 41 Most investment contracts have options to surrender early, albeit these are often subject to surrender or other penalties.
It is therefore the case that most contracts could be said to have a contractual maturity of less than one year, but in reality the additional charges and term of the contracts means these are unlikely to be exercised in practice and the more useful information is to present information on expected payment.
The maturity prole above excludes certain corporate unit-linked business with gross policyholder liabilities of 11 billion 2009: 9 billion which has no stated maturity but which is repayable on demand.
This table has been prepared on an undiscounted basis and accordingly the amounts shown for life assurance investment contracts differ from those disclosed on the statement of financial position.
Durations of long-term business contracts, covering insurance and investment contracts, on a discounted basis are included in section D. The vast majority of the Groups financial assets are held to back the Groups policyholder liabilities.
Although asset liability matching is an important component of managing policyholder liabilities both those classied as insurance and those classied as investments, this prole is mainly relevant for managing market risk rather than liquidity risk.
Within each business unit this asset liability matching is performed on a portfolio by portfolio basis.
In terms of liquidity risk a large proportion of the policyholder liabilities contain discretionary surrender values or surrender charges, meaning that many of the Groups liabilities are expected to be held for the long term.
Much of the Groups investment portfolios is in marketable securities, which can therefore be converted quickly to liquid assets.
For the reasons above an analysis of the Groups assets by contractual maturity is not considered necessary to evaluate the nature and extent of the Groups liquidity risk.
Credit risk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of financial instruments before any allowance for collateral or allocation of losses to policyholders is represented by the carrying value of financial instruments on the balance sheet that have exposures to credit risk.
These assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, deposits, debt securities, loans and derivative assets, and other debtors, the carrying value of which are disclosed at the start of this note and note G3 for derivative assets.
The collateral in place in relation to derivatives is described in G4.
Notes D2, D3 and D4, describe the security for these loans held by the Group, as disclosed at the start of this note.
Of the total loans and receivables held 74 million 2009: 64 million are past their due date but have not been impaired.
Of the total past due but not impaired, 26 million is less than one year past their due date and 9 million is more than six months but less than one year past their due date 2009: 64 million and 11 million respectively.
The Group expects full recovery of these loans and receivables.
No further analysis has been provided of the age of financial assets that are past due at the end of the reporting period but not impaired as the amounts are immaterial.
No further analysis has been provided of the element of loans and receivables that was neither past due nor impaired for the total portfolio.
This is on the grounds of immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired elements and the total portfolio.
Financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated amounted to 97 million 2009: 55 million.
There was no collateral held against loans that are past due and impaired or that are past due but not impaired at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
In addition, during the year the Group took possession of 22 million 2009: 15 million of other collateral held as security, which mainly consists of assets that could be readily convertible into cash.
304 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G2: MARKET RISK CONTINUED Currency risk As at 31 December 2010, the Group held 18 per cent 2009: 19 per cent and 14 per cent 2009: 13 per cent of its financial assets and financial liabilities respectively, in currencies, mainly US dollar and Euro, other than the functional currency of the relevant business unit.
The financial assets, of which 70 per cent 2009: 74 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, allow the PAC with-profits fund to obtain exposure to foreign equity markets.
The financial liabilities, of which 28 per cent 2009: 34 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, mainly relate to foreign currency borrowings.
The exchange risks inherent in these exposures are mitigated through the use of derivatives, mainly forward currency contracts note G3 below.
The amount of exchange gains recognised in the income statement in 2010, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss, is 82 million 2009: 201 million losses.
This constitutes 16 million losses 2009: 41 million losses on Medium Term Notes MTN liabilities and 98 million of net gains 2009: 160 million net losses, mainly arising on investments of the PAC with-profits fund.
The gains losses on MTN liabilities are fully offset by value movements on cross-currency swaps, which are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
G3: DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING Derivatives The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and credit default swaps.
All over-the-counter derivative transactions are conducted under standardised ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc master agreements and the Group has collateral agreements between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties in place under each of these market master agreements.
The total fair value balances of derivative assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2010 were as follows: 2010 m Asian UK insurance US insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management to a segment total Derivative assets 926 645 310 44 114 2,039 Derivative liabilities 792 799 222 78 146 2,037 134 154 88 34 32 2 2009 m Asian UK insurance US insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management to a segment total Derivative assets 910 519 150 48 153 1,780 Derivative liabilities 709 461 146 49 136 1,501 201 58 4 1 17 279 The above derivative assets are included in other investments in the primary statements.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 305 The notional amount of the derivatives, distinguishing between UK insurance and US operations, was as follows: 2010 m UK insurance operations US insurance operations Notional amount on which Notional amount on which future payments are based future payments are based As at 31 December 2010 Asset Liability Asset Liability Cross-currency swaps 808 921 379 173 Equity index put options 1,458 Swaptions 18 13,093 3,832 Futures 3,068 7,150 2,701 Forwards 19,668 19,793 Ination swaps 3,032 2,945 Credit default swaps 1,148 20 26 Credit derivatives 134 Put options 8,048 Equity options 34 3,514 867 Total return swaps 215 215 192 Interest rate swaps 4,035 4,403 7,185 8,495 2009 m UK insurance operations US insurance operations Notional amount on which Notional amount on which future payments are based future payments are based As at 31 December 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability Cross-currency swaps 808 881 376 168 Swaptions 900 900 12,694 5,263 Futures 2,267 2,987 1,534 Forwards 20,235 20,184 Ination swaps 2,337 2,205 Credit default swaps 90 12 Credit derivatives 189 Put options 9,072 Equity options 30 552 3,246 562 Total return swaps 420 421 Interest rate swaps 5,529 5,710 1,579 3,957 In addition, the other operations, including the Group Treasury function and the Asian operations, have cross-currency swap assets and liabilities with notional amounts of 492 million 2009: 819 million and 209 million 2009: 122 million respectively, forward currency contracts assets and liabilities with notional amounts of 2,619 million 2009: 570 million and 440 million 2009: 958 million respectively, interest rate swaps assets and liabilities of 832 million 2009: 793 million and of 195 million 2009: 522 million, respectively, and cliquet options assets of nil 2009: 7 million.
These derivatives are used for efficient portfolio management to obtain cost effective and efficient exposure to various markets in accordance with the Groups investment strategies and to manage exposure to interest rate, currency, credit and other business risks.
See also note D3 for use of derivatives by the Groups US operations.
The Group uses various interest rate derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate volatility.
The UK insurance operations use various currency derivatives in order to limit volatility due to foreign currency exchange rate uctuations arising on securities denominated in currencies other than sterling.
In addition, total return swaps and interest rate swaps are held for efficient portfolio management.
As part of the efficient portfolio management of the PAC with-profits fund, the fund may, from time to time, invest in cash-settled forward contracts over Prudential plc shares, which are accounted for consistently with other derivatives.
This is in order to avoid a mismatch of the with-profits investment portfolio with the investment benchmarks set for its equity-based investment funds.
The contracts will form part of the long-term investments of the with-profits fund.
These contracts are subject to a number of limitations for legal and regulatory reasons.
306 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED G3: DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING CONTINUED Some of the Groups products, especially those sold in the US, have certain guarantee features linked to equity indexes.
A mismatch between product liabilities and the performance of the underlying assets backing them, exposes the Group to equity index risk.
In order to mitigate this risk, the relevant business units purchase swaptions, equity options and futures to match asset performance with liabilities under equity-indexed products.
The US operations and some of the UK operations hold large amounts of interest-rate sensitive investments that contain credit risks on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These entities have purchased some swaptions in order to manage the default risk on certain underlying assets and hence reduce the amount of regulatory capital held to support the assets.
Hedging The Group has formally assessed and documented the effectiveness of the following hedges under IAS 39.
Fair value hedges The Group used interest rate derivatives to hedge the interest rate exposures on its US$300 million, 6.5 per cent perpetual subordinated capital securities until September 2010.
The hedge terminated at this point.
The impact on the Groups income statement was immaterial.
Where the hedge relationship has been fide-designated and re-designated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item up to the point of fide-designation continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged item and is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to the first break clause date of the perpetual subordinated capital securities.
The Group has chosen to designate as a fair value hedge certain xed to oating rate swaps which hedge the fair value exposure to interest rate movements of certain of the Groups operational borrowings.
The fair value of the derivatives designated as fair value hedges above at 31 December 2010, was an asset of 5 million 2009: asset of 7 million and liability of 1 million.
Movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments of a net loss of 1 million 2009: net loss of 11 million and the hedged items of a net gain of 1 million 2009: net gain of 11 million are recorded in the income statement in respect of the fair value hedges above.
Cash flow hedges The Group has no cash ow hedges in place.
Net investment hedges The Group has designated perpetual subordinated capital securities totalling US$2.3 billion 2009: US$1.55 billion as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The carrying value of the subordinated capital securities was 1,462 million as at 31 December 2010 2009: 966 million.
The foreign exchange loss of 45 million 2009: gain of 118 million on translation of the borrowings to pounds sterling at the statement of financial position date is recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity.
This net investment hedge was 100 per cent effective.
G4: DERECOGNITION AND COLLATERAL Securities lending and reverse repurchase agreements The Group has entered into securities lending including repurchase agreements whereby blocks of securities are loaned to thirdparties, primarily major brokerage rms.
The amounts above the fair value of the loaned securities required to be held as collateral by the agreements depend on the quality of the collateral, calculated on a daily basis.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial position, rather they are retained within the appropriate investment classication.
Collateral typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities and letters of credit.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had lent 8,708 million 2009: 10,501 million of which 6,488 million 2009: 7,910 million was lent by the PAC with-profits fund of securities and held collateral under such agreements of 9,334 million 2009: 10,669 million of which 6,910 million 2009: 8,086 million was held by the PAC with-profits fund.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had entered into reverse repurchase transactions under which it purchased securities and had taken on the obligation to resell the securities for the purchase price of 1,208 million 2009: 1,587 million, together with accrued interest.
Collateral and pledges under derivative transactions At 31 December 2010, the Group had pledged 800 million 2009: 644 million for liabilities and held collateral of 804 million 2009: 586 million in respect of over-the-counter derivative transactions.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL G: FINANCIAL ASSETS STATEMENTS AND LIABILITIES 307 G5: IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS In accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note A4, impairment reviews were performed for available-for-sale securities and loans and receivables.
In addition, impairment reviews were undertaken for the reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, impairment losses of 145 million 2009: 647 million were recognised for available-forsale securities and loans and receivables.
These were 124 million 2009: 630 million in respect of available-for-sale securities held by Jackson and 21 million 2009: 17 million in respect of loans and receivables.
The 2010 impairment charge for loans and receivables of 21 million 2009: 17 million relates to loans held by the UK with-profits fund and mortgage loans held by Jackson.
Impairment losses recognised on available-for-sale securities amounted to 124 million 2009: 630 million.
Of this amount, 90 per cent 2009: 86 per cent has been recorded on structured asset-backed securities, primarily due to reduced cash ow expectations on such securities that are collateralised by diversied pools of primarily below investment grade securities.
Of the losses related to the impairment of xed maturity securities, the top five individual corporate issuers made up 32 per cent 2009: 11 per cent, reecting a deteriorating business outlook of the companies concerned.
The impairment losses have been recorded in investment return in the income statement.
In 2010, the Group realised gross losses on sales of available-for-sale securities of 160 million 2009: 134 million with 45 per cent 2009: 60 per cent of these losses related to the disposal of xed maturity securities of 15 2009: five individual issuers, which were disposed of as part of risk reduction programmes intended to limit future credit loss exposure.
Of the 160 million 2009: 134 million, 99 million 2009: 6 million relates to losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating securities.
The effect of those reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying the estimates that underpin the assessment of whether impairment has taken place depends on the factors described in note A3.
A key indicator of whether such impairment may arise in future, and the potential amounts at risk, is the prole of gross unrealised losses for xed maturity securities accounted for on an available-for-sale basis by reference to the time periods by which the securities have been held continuously in an unrealised loss position and by reference to the maturity date of the securities concerned.
For 2010 the amounts of gross unrealised losses for xed maturity securities classied as available-for-sale under IFRS in an unrealised loss position was 370 million 2009: 966 million.
Notes B1 and D3 provide further details on the impairment charges and unrealised losses of Jacksons available-for-sale securities.
308 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS H1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS a Goodwill 2010 m 2009 m COST At 1 January 1,430 1,461 Disposal of Taiwan Agency business 44 Additional consideration paid on previously acquired businesses 13 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore 141 Exchange differences 15 At 31 December 1,586 1,430 AGGREGATE IMPAIRMENT At 1 January and 31 December 120 120 NET BOOK AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 1,466 1,310 Impairment testing Goodwill does not generate cash ows independently of other groups of assets and thus is assigned to cash generating units CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing.
These CGUs are based upon how management monitors the business and represent the lowest level to which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
An allocation to CGUs of the Groups goodwill attributable to shareholders is shown below: 2010 m 2009 m M&G 1,153 1,153 Other 313 157 1,466 1,310 Other represents goodwill amounts allocated across CGUs in Asia and US operations.
Other goodwill amounts are not individually material.
During 2010 141 million SGD313 million of goodwill was recognised upon the acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited.
Upon translation at the year end exchange rate, the carrying value of this UOB Life Assurance goodwill at 31 December 2010 was 156 million.
Assessment of whether goodwill may be impaired Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the CGUs carrying amount, including any goodwill, with its recoverable amount.
With the exception of M&G, the goodwill attributable to shareholders in the statement of financial position mainly relates to acquired life businesses.
The Company routinely compares the aggregate of net asset value and acquired goodwill on an IFRS basis of acquired life business with the value of the business as determined using the EEV methodology, as described in note D1.
Any excess of IFRS over EEV carrying value is then compared with EEV basis value of current and projected future new business to determine whether there is any indication that the goodwill in the IFRS statement of financial position may be impaired.
The assumptions underpinning the Groups EEV basis of reporting are included in the EEV basis supplementary information in this Annual Report.
In particular at 31 December 2010, the EEV of the CGU containing the UOB Life Assurance goodwill being the Singapore insurance operations materially exceeded its IFRS net asset value and so no impairment was deemed to arise.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 309 M&G The recoverable amount for the M&G CGU has been determined by calculating its value in use.
This has been calculated by aggregating the present value of future cash ows expected to be derived from the M&G operating segment based upon management projections.
The discounted cash ow valuation has been based on a three-year plan prepared by M&G, and approved by management, and cash ow projections for later years.
The value in use is particularly sensitive to a number of key assumptions as follows: i The set of economic, market and business assumptions used to derive the three-year plan.
The direct and secondary effects of recent developments, e. g. changes in global equity markets, are considered by management in arriving at the expectations for the financial projections for the plan.
ii The assumed growth rate on forecast cash ows beyond the terminal year of the plan.
A growth rate of 2.5 per cent 2009: 2.5 per cent has been used to extrapolate beyond the plan period representing managements best estimate view of the long-term growth rate of the business after considering the future and past growth rates and external sources of data.
iii The risk discount rate.
Differing discount rates have been applied in accordance with the nature of the individual component businesses.
For retail and institutional business a risk discount rate of 12 per cent 2009: 12 per cent has been applied to post-tax cash ows.
The pre-tax risk discount rate was 16 per cent 2009: 16 per cent.
Management have determined the risk discount rate by reference to an average implied discount rate for comparable UK listed asset managers calculated by reference to risk-free rates, equity risk premiums of five per cent and an average beta factor for relative market risk of comparable UK listed asset managers.
A similar approach has been applied for the other component businesses of M&G.
iv That asset management contracts continue on similar terms.
Management believes that any reasonable change in the key assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of M&G to fall below its carrying amount.
Japanese life company The aggregate goodwill impairment of 120 million at 31 December 2010 and 2009 relates to the goodwill held in relation to the Japanese life operation which was impaired in 2005. b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets attributable to shareholders The deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to shareholders comprise: 2010 m 2009 m Deferred acquisition costs DAC related to insurance contracts as classied under IFRS 4 4,316 3,823 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classied as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 110 107 4,426 3,930 Present value of acquired in-force policies for insurance contracts as classied under IFRS 4 70 52 Present value of future profits of acquired investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classied as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 1 Distribution rights 113 66 183 119 Total of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 4,609 4,049 310 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED Deferred acquisition costs Asset Other Total Total i UK US Asia management intangibles 2010 2009 m m m m m m m BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 124 3,092 706 8 119 4,049 5,349 Additions 19 851 210 5 50 1,135 1,071 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Ltd 12 12 Amortisation to the income statement: Operating profit 20 334 208 4 13 579 469 Amortisation related to short-term uctuations in investment returns 358 358 153 20 24 208 4 13 221 316 Exchange differences 72 50 15 137 550 Change in shadow DAC related to movement in unrealised appreciation of Jacksons securities classied as available-for-sale see note D3 g for explanation 496 496 1,069 Dilution of holding in PruHealth 7 7 DAC movement on sale of Taiwan agency business 436 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 116 3,543 758 9 183 4,609 4,049 Note i The DAC amount in respect of US insurance operations includes 2,834 million 2009: 1,938 million in respect of variable annuity business, 1,229 million 2009: 1,164 million in respect of other business and 520 million 2009: 10 million in respect of cumulative shadow DAC.
Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS AT 1 JANUARY 3,823 5,097 Additions 1,064 1,054 Amortisation 190 286 Exchange differences 122 537 Change in shadow DAC related to movement in unrealised appreciation of Jacksons securities classied as available-for-sale 496 1,069 Dilution of holding in PruHealth 7 DAC movement on sale of Taiwan agency business 436 DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS AT 31 DECEMBER 4,316 3,823 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts attributable to shareholders Incremental costs associated with the origination of investment management contracts written by the Groups insurance and asset management businesses are capitalised and amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 311 2010 m 2009 m AT 1 JANUARY Gross amount 162 148 Accumulated amortisation 55 40 NET BOOK AMOUNT 107 108 Additions through internal development 21 14 Amortisation 18 15 AT 31 DECEMBER 110 107 COMPRISING: Gross amount 183 162 Accumulated amortisation 73 55 NET BOOK AMOUNT 110 107 Present value of acquired in-force business of long-term business contracts attributable to shareholders The present value of acquired in-force business PVAIF relating to investment contracts without discretionary participation features represents the contractual right to benefit from providing these investment management services in the future.
The fair value is measured as the present value of the future profits of the investment management component of these contracts.
These contracts are accounted for under the provisions of IAS 18.
The PVAIF balance relating to insurance contracts is accounted for under UK GAAP as permitted by IFRS 4.
The present value of future profits of acquired investment management contracts which was fully amortised during the year related to unit-linked contracts acquired as part of the M&G acquisition in 1999.
Amortisation is charged to the acquisition costs and other operating expenditure line in the income statement over the period of provision of asset management services as those profits emerge.
2010 m 2009 m Insurance Investment Insurance Investment business management business management AT 1 JANUARY Cost 175 12 184 12 Accumulated amortisation 123 11 120 11 NET BOOK AMOUNT 52 1 64 1 note I1 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Ltd 12 Exchange differences 10 6 Amortisation charge 4 1 6 AT 31 DECEMBER 70 52 1 COMPRISING: Cost 203 175 12 Accumulated amortisation 133 123 11 NET BOOK AMOUNT 70 52 1 Distribution rights attributable to the Asian insurance operations Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in respect of the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a xed period of time.
The distribution rights amounts are amortised over the term of the distribution contracts.
312 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED 2010 m 2009 m AT 1 JANUARY Gross amount 79 84 Accumulated amortisation 13 5 66 79 i Additions 50 3 Amortisation charge 8 9 Exchange differences 5 7 AT 31 DECEMBER 113 66 COMPRISING: Gross amount 136 79 Accumulated amortisation 23 13 113 66 Note i In addition to the acquired assets and liabilities of UOB Life Assurance in 2010, as explained in note I1, the Group entered into distribution agreements with UOB for consideration of SGD 110 million 50 million.
The distribution rights have been accounted for as an intangible asset.
H2: INTANGIBLE ASSETS ATTRIBUTABLE TO WITH-PROFITS FUNDS a Goodwill in respect of acquired investment subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 2010 m 2009 m AT 1 JANUARY 124 174 note I8 iii Additions in the year 42 Impairment 50 AT 31 DECEMBER 166 124 All the goodwill relates to the UK insurance operations segment.
The venture fund investments consolidated by the Group relates to investments by PAC with-profits fund managed by M&G.
The goodwill shown in the table above relates to these venture fund investments.
Goodwill is tested for impairment for these investments by comparing the investments carrying value including goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the investments is determined by calculating their fair value less costs to sell.
The fair value is determined by using a discounted cash ow valuation.
The valuations are based on cash ow projections to 2015 prepared by management after considering the historical experience and future growth rates of the business.
The key assumption applied in the calculations is the risk discount rate ranging from 10 to 14 per cent derived by reference to risk-free rates and an equity premium risk.
In 2010, no goodwill was deemed to be impaired following the impairment testing carried out.
In 2009, following the impairment testing carried out, 50 million of the goodwill was deemed to be impaired.
In 2009, the impairment charge was recorded under acquisition costs and other expenditure but was also taken account of in determining the charge credit in the income statement for the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
Accordingly, the charge did not affect shareholders profits or equity.
b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets Other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to with-profits funds consist of: 2010 m 2009 m Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund 13 9 Distribution rights attributable to with-profits funds of the Asian insurance operations 97 97 110 106 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 313 Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m AT 1 JANUARY 9 13 Additions 9 Amortisation charge 5 4 AT 31 DECEMBER 13 9 The above costs relate to non-participating business written by the PAC with-profits sub-fund.
No deferred acquisition costs are established for the participating business.
Distribution rights attributable to with-profit funds of the Asian insurance operations Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in relation to the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a xed period of time.
2010 m 2009 m AT 1 JANUARY Gross amount 103 115 Accumulated amortisation 6 2 97 113 Additions Amortisation charge 4 4 Exchange differences 4 12 AT 31 DECEMBER 97 97 COMPRISING: Gross amount 108 103 Accumulated amortisation 11 6 97 97 H3: REINSURERS SHARE OF INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES 2010 m 2009 m Insurance contract liabilities 1,167 1,114 Claims outstanding 177 73 1,344 1,187 The movement on reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m AT 1 JANUARY 1,114 1,176 Movement in the year 31 24 Foreign exchange translation differences 22 86 AT 31 DECEMBER 1,167 1,114 314 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H4: TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Assets Of the 555 million 2009: 636 million current tax recoverable, the majority is expected to be recovered in one year or less.
Deferred tax asset 2010 m 2009 m Unrealised losses on investments 449 1,156 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 11 20 Short-term timing differences 1,152 1,228 Capital allowances 16 18 Unused deferred tax losses 560 286 Total 2,188 2,708 The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2010 and 2009 arises in the following parts of the Group: 2010 m 2009 m UK insurance operations: SAIF 2 2 PAC with-profits fund including PAL 108 141 Other 104 149 US insurance operations 1,391 1,944 Asian insurance operations 98 132 Other operations 485 340 Total 2,188 2,708 The decrease in deferred tax asset primarily relates to the reduction in unrealised losses on investments due to the improved investment markets.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a trading or capital nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Accordingly, for the 2010 results and statement of financial position at 31 December 2010, the possible tax benefit of approximately 143 million 2009: 257 million, which may arise from capital losses valued at approximately 0.5 billion 2009: 1.2 billion, is sufciently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
In addition, a potential deferred tax asset of 298 million 2009: 607 million, which may arise from tax losses and other potential temporary differences totalling 1.2 billion 2009: 2.1 billion is sufciently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
Forecasts as to when the tax losses and other temporary differences are likely to be utilised indicate that they may not be utilised in the short-term.
Liabilities The current tax liability decreased to 831 million 2009: 1,215 million due to an exceptional tax credit which primarily relates to the impact of a settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities together with the ability to recognise a tax credit on costs incurred in relation to the terminated AIA transaction.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 315 Deferred tax liability 2010 m 2009 m Unrealised gains on investments 1,678 1,744 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 1,057 961 Short-term timing differences 1,477 1,159 Capital allowances 12 8 Total 4,224 3,872 The increase in deferred tax liability primarily relates to the rise in deferred acquisition costs shown within short-term timing differences above as a result of the increase in insurance new business during the year.
Unprovided deferred income tax liabilities on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures are considered to be insignicant due to the availability of various UK tax exemptions and reliefs.
The UK governments tax rate change to 27 per cent has had the effect of reducing the UK with-profits and shareholder-backed business elements of the net deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2010 by 11 million.
The tax change to 27 per cent is effective from 1 April 2011 but enacted at 31 December 2010.
The subsequent proposed phased rate changes to 24 per cent are expected to have the effect of reducing the UK with-profits and shareholder-backed business elements of the net deferred tax balances at 31 December 2010 by 65 million.
H5: ACCRUED INVESTMENT INCOME AND OTHER DEBTORS 2010 m 2009 m ACCRUED INVESTMENT INCOME Interest receivable 1,844 1,718 Other 824 755 Total 2,668 2,473 OTHER DEBTORS Premiums receivable: From policyholders 141 148 From intermediaries 28 17 From reinsurers 27 82 Other 707 515 Total 903 762 TOTAL ACCRUED INVESTMENT INCOME AND OTHER DEBTORS 3,571 3,235 Of the 3,571 million 2009: 3,235 million of accrued investment income and other debtors, 151 million 2009: 134 million is expected to be settled after one year or more.
316 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H6: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment comprise Group occupied properties, development property until 2009 and tangible assets.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of these items from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Group occupied Development Tangible property property assets Total m m m m AT 1 JANUARY 2009 Cost 292 131 717 1,140 Accumulated depreciation 29 476 505 NET BOOK AMOUNT 263 131 241 635 YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 Opening net book amount 263 131 241 635 Exchange differences 9 31 40 Depreciation charge 4 70 74 Additions 2 89 91 Disposals including amounts disposed of with the Taiwan agency business 99 15 114 Reclassied as investment property 131 131 CLOSING NET BOOK AMOUNT 153 214 367 AT 1 JANUARY 2010 Cost 173 661 834 Accumulated depreciation 20 447 467 Net book amount 153 214 367 YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 Opening net book amount 153 214 367 Exchange differences 59 14 Depreciation charge 4 68 72 Additions 19 7493 Arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries 220 220 Disposals 10 10 CLOSING NET BOOK AMOUNT 173 439 612 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 Cost 197 908 1,105 Accumulated depreciation 24 469 493 NET BOOK AMOUNT 173 439 612 In line with the 2008 IASB Annual Improvements Project, all development properties were reclassified as investment properties with effect from 1 January 2009.
The total property, plant and equipment relates to continuing operations only.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 317 Capital expenditure: property, plant and equipment by segment 2010 m 2009 m Insurance operations: UK 23 5 US 25 12 Asia 28 65 Asset management operations: M&G 2 US 1 1 Asia 4 2 TOTAL SEGMENT 83 85 Unallocated corporate 10 6 TOTAL 93 91 H7: INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Investment properties principally relate to the PAC with-profits fund and are carried at fair value.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment properties at the beginning and end of the year is set out below: 2010 m 2009 m AT 1 JANUARY 10,905 11,992 Reclassication of development property 131 Additions: Resulting from acquisitions 267 184 Resulting from expenditure capitalised 44 133 Resulting from acquisitions through business combinations 1 Disposals including amounts disposed of with the Taiwan agency business 390 1,220 Net gain loss from fair value adjustments 636 203 Net foreign exchange differences 38 113 Transfers to held for sale assets 254 Transfers to owner occupied properties 1 AT 31 DECEMBER 11,247 10,905 In line with changes issued by the IASB as part of its Annual Improvement Project in May 2008 as shown in note H6 all development properties with a total cost of 131 million have been reclassified as investment properties at 1 January 2009.
At this date these investments had a fair value of 152 million.
The initial gain of 21 million is included as part of net loss from fair value adjustments.
The income statement includes the following items in respect of investment properties: 2010 m 2009 m Rental income from investment properties 625 755 Direct operating expenses including repairs and maintenance expenses arising from investment properties that generated rental income during the year 125 131 Further information on the investment property held by the UK insurance operations is included in note D2 a.
318 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H7: INVESTMENT PROPERTIES CONTINUED Investment properties of 3,435 million 2009: 3,177 million are held under finance leases.
A reconciliation between the total of future minimum lease payments at the statement of financial position date and their present value is shown below: 2010 m 2009 m Future minimum lease payments at 31 December 1,107 1,683 Future finance charges on finance leases 972 1,517 Present value of minimum lease payments 135 166 Future minimum lease payments are due as follows: Less than 1 year 7 9 1 to 5 years 28 38 Over 5 years 1,072 1,636 Total 1,107 1,683 The present values of these minimum lease payments are: Less than 1 year 7 8 1 to 5 years 24 38 Over 5 years 104 120 Total 135 166 Contingent rent is that portion of the lease payments that is not xed in amount but is based on the future value of a factor that changes other than with the passage of time.
There was no contingent rent recognised as income or expense in 2010 and 2009.
The Groups policy is to rent investment properties to tenants through operating leases.
Minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases are receivable in the following periods: 2010 m 2009 m Less than 1 year 601 662 1 to 5 years 2,121 2,282 Over 5 years 5,616 7,792 Total 8,338 10,736 The total minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable sub-leases for land and buildings at 31 December 2010 are 3,366 million 2009: 3,684 million.
H8: INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Investments in associates The Group had three associates at 31 December 2010 2009: three that are accounted for using the equity method.
The Groups associates are a 30 per cent interest in The Nam Khang, a Vietnamese property developer, a 30 per cent interest in Apollo Education and Training Organisation Vietnam and a 25 per cent interest in PruHealth, following the loss of joint control in the period see note I2.
OYO Developments Limited a 25 per cent associate was disposed during the year.
The Group also has investments in associates which meet the IAS 28 criteria for measurement at fair value through profit and loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 319 Associates accounted for using the equity method A summary of the movements in investments in associates accounted for using the equity method in 2010 and 2009 is set out below: Total Share of Share of Share of carrying capital reserves net assets Goodwill value m m m m m BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2009 12 4 8 2 10 Exchange translations and other movements 7 4 3 1 4 Share of loss for the year after tax BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 5 516 Transfer of PruHealth to associates note I2 16566 66 Acquisition capital injection in PruHealth 999 Exchange translation and other movements 3 1 4 4 Share of loss for the year after tax 6 6 6 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 12 58 70 1 71 There have been no changes recognised in the other comprehensive income of associates that would also be recognised in the other comprehensive income by the Group.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and profit and loss of associates accounted for using the equity method at 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets excluding goodwill 70 5 Total liabilities Net assets 70 5 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue 39 1 Loss in the year 6 The 2010 amounts include the Groups share of PruHealths revenue and profit and loss for the five months ended 31 December 2010.
Prior to August 2010, PruHealth was accounted for as a joint venture see note I2 and the note below.
Associates carried at fair value through profit and loss The Groups associates that are carried at fair value through profit and loss comprise investments in OEICs, unit trusts, funds holding collateralised debt obligations, property unit trusts, and venture capital investments of the PAC with-profits fund where the Group has significant inuence.
These investments are incorporated both in the UK and overseas, and some have year ends which are noncoterminous with that of the Group.
In these instances, the investments are recorded at fair value at 31 December 2010 based on valuations or pricing information at that specic date.
The aggregate fair value of associates carried at fair value through profit and loss where there are published price quotations is approximately 5 billion 2009: 6 billion at 31 December 2010.
The aggregate assets of these associates are approximately 6 billion 2009: 9 billion.
Aggregate liabilities, excluding liabilities to unit holders and shareholders for unit trusts and OEICs, are approximately 1 billion 2009: 2 billion.
Fund revenues, with revenue arising in unit trusts and OEICs deemed to constitute the investment return for these vehicles, were approximately 0.4 billion 2009: 0.8 billion and net loss in the year, excluding unit trusts and OEICs where all investment returns accrue to unit holders or shareholders respectively, was approximately 0.1 billion 2009: profit of 0.2 billion.
320 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H8: INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES CONTINUED Investments in joint ventures Joint ventures represent activities over which the Group exercises joint control through contractual agreement with one or more parties.
The Groups significant joint ventures, which are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, comprise various joint ventures relating to property investments where the Group has a 50 per cent interest as well as the following interests: Investment % held Principal activity Country CITIC Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 50 Life assurance China CITIC Prudential Fund Management Company Limited 49 Asset management China Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited 49 Asset management India Prudential BSN Takaful Berhad 49 General and life insurance Malaysia BOCI Prudential Asset Management Limited 36 Asset management China ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 26 Life assurance India The investments noted in the table above have the same accounting year end as the Group, except for ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited.
Although these investments have reporting periods ending 31 March, 12 months of financial information up to 31 December is recorded.
Accordingly, the information covers the same period as that of the Group.
The summarised financial data for the Groups share of investments in joint ventures is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m FINANCIAL POSITION Current assets 327 386 Non-current assets 3,386 2,462 Total assets 3,713 2,848 Current liabilities 329 150 Non-current liabilities 3,093 2,392 Total liabilities 3,422 2,542 Net equity 291 306 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues 1,195 974 Expenses 1,135 945 Net profit loss 60 29 The 2010 amounts include the Groups share of PruHealths results for the seven months ended 31 July 2010.
On 1 August 2010 the Groups interest in PruHealth was diluted and the Groups investment was reclassified as an associate see note I2 and the note above.
There are several minor service agreements in place between the joint ventures and the Group.
During 2010, the aggregate amount of the transactions was 29.7 million 2009: 14.1 million and the balance outstanding as at 31 December 2010 was 69.5 million 2009: 54.6 million.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed nor does the Group have any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures.
H9: PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE Investment properties are classied as held for sale when contracts have been exchanged but the sale has not been completed at the period end.
At 31 December 2010 the value of assets held for sale was 257 million 2009: 3 million.
Gains on disposal of held for sale assets are recorded in investment return within the income statement.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 321 H10: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash ow statement comprise the following statement of financial position amounts: 2010 m 2009 m Cash 6,167 5,071 Cash equivalents 464 236 TOTAL CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 6,631 5,307 Cash and cash equivalents held centrally are considered to be available for general use by the Group.
These funds amount to 523 million and 895 million at 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The remaining funds are considered not to be available for general use by the Group, and include funds held for the benefit of policyholders.
H11: SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY: SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUM AND RESERVES 2010 m 2009 m SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM Share capital 127 127 Share premium 1,856 1,843 RESERVES Retained earnings 4,982 3,964 Translation reserve 454 203 Available-for-sale reserve 612 134 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY 8,031 6,271 A summary of the ordinary shares in issue is set out below: Share capital and share premium 2010 Number of Share Share ordinary capital premium shares m m Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At 1 January 2010 2,532,227,471 127 1,843 Shares issued under share option schemes 2,455,227 13 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 10,911,808 62 Reserve movements in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 62 At 31 December 2010 2,545,594,506 127 1,856 2009 Number of Share Share ordinary capital premium shares m m Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At 1 January 2009 2,496,947,688 125 1,840 Shares issued under share option schemes 605,721 3 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 34,674,062 2 136 Reserve movements in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 136 At 31 December 2009 2,532,227,471 127 1,843 322 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H11: SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY: SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUM AND RESERVES CONTINUED Amounts recorded in share capital represent the nominal value of the shares issued.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of shares, net of issue costs, and the nominal value of shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends are considered to take the legal form of bonus issue shares and have been accounted for as such.
At 31 December 2010, there were options outstanding under Save As You Earn schemes to subscribe for 12,802,482 2009: 12,230,833 shares at prices ranging from 288 pence to 572 pence 2009: 266 pence to 572 pence and exercisable by the year 2016 2009: 2016.
The cost of own shares of 75 million as at 31 December 2010 2009: 75 million is deducted from retained earnings.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
At 31 December 2010, 4.5 million 2009: 5.3 million Prudential plc shares with a market value of 30 million 2009: 34 million were held in such trusts.
Of this total, 4.4 million 2009: 4.8 million shares were held in trusts under employee incentive plans.
In 2010, the Company purchased 5.7 million 2009: 3.4 million shares in respect of employee incentive plans at a cost of 32 million 2009: 17 million.
The maximum number of shares held in the year was 5.3 million which was at the beginning of the year.
Of the total shares held in trust, 0.1 million 2009: 0.5 million shares were held by a qualifying employee share ownership trust.
These shares are expected to be fully distributed in the future on maturity of savings-related share option schemes.
Some of these funds hold shares in Prudential plc.
The total number of shares held by these funds at 31 December 2010 was 9.8 million 2009: 10.6 million and the cost of acquiring these shares of 47 million 2009: 50 million is included in the cost of own shares.
The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2010 was 65 million 2009: 67 million.
During 2010 and 2009 respectively, these funds made 833,618 net disposals and 1,414,263 net acquisitions of Prudential shares for a net decrease of 3 million and a net increase of 3 million to book cost.
All share transactions were made on an exchange other than the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong.
The Company did not buy back any of its own shares during 2010 or 2009.
Reserves The translation reserve represents cumulative foreign exchange translation differences taken directly to equity in accordance with IFRS, net of related tax.
In accordance with IFRS 1, cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
The available-for-sale reserve represents gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities of Jackson, net of the related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs and of the related tax.
H12: INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES AND UNALLOCATED SURPLUS OF WITH-PROFITS FUNDS Movement in year Unallocated Insurance surplus contract of withliabilities profits funds m m At 1 January 2009 136,030 8,414 Income and expense included in the income statement 19,765 1,559 Foreign exchange translation differences 6,574 46 Disposal of Taiwan agency business 3,508 145,713 10,019 AT 1 JANUARY 2010 Income and expense included in the income statement 22,412 245 Foreign exchange translation differences 3,193 11 Dilution of holding in PruHealth 27 AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 171,291 10,253 Notes B6, D2c, D3c and D4c provide further analysis of the movement in the year of the Groups policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds.
324 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H13: BORROWINGS Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2010 m 2009 m Innovative Innovative Tier 1 Tier 2 Senior Total Total CENTRAL OPERATIONS Subordinated debt: note i 500m 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2021 428 428 443 note ii 20m Medium-Term Subordinated Notes 2023 17 17 18 435m 6.125% Subordinated Notes 2031 428 428 428 400m 11.375% Subordinated Notes 2039 382 382 380 US$1,000m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 639 639 619 US$250m 6.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note iii Securities 160 160 155 US$300m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note iii Securities 192 192 192 US$750m 11.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 472 472 456 1,463 1,255 2,718 2,691 Senior debt: 300m 6.875% Bonds 2023 300 300 300 250m 5.875% Bonds 2029 249 249 249 549 549 549 TOTAL CENTRAL OPERATIONS 1,463 1,255 549 3,267 3,240 PRUCAP note iv 250m bank loan 250 250 JACKSON note v US$250m 8.15% Surplus Notes 2027 159 159 154 notes vi, vii TOTAL 1,463 1,414 799 3,676 3,394 These debt classifications are consistent with the treatment of capital for regulatory purposes, as defined in the FSA Handbook.
The senior debt ranks above subordinated debt in the event of liquidation.
Notes i The 500 million 5.75 per cent borrowings have been swapped into borrowings of 333 million with interest payable at six month LIBOR plus 0.962 per cent.
ii The 20 million borrowings were issued at 20-year Euro Constant Maturity Swap capped at 6.5 per cent.
These have been swapped into borrowings of 14 million with interest payable at three month LIBOR plus 1.2 per cent.
iii The US$250 million 6.75 per cent borrowings and the US$300 million 6.5 per cent borrowings can be converted, in whole or in part, at the Companys option and subject to certain conditions, on any interest payment date falling on or after 23 March 2010 and 23 March 2011 respectively, into one or more series of Prudential preference shares.
iv The 250 million PruCap bank loan was made in two tranches: 135 million maturing in June 2014, currently drawn at a cost of six month LIBOR plus 1.2 per cent and 115 million maturing in August 2012, currently drawn at a cost of twelve month LIBOR plus 1.41 per cent.
v The Jackson borrowings are unsecured and subordinated to all present and future indebtedness, policy claims and other creditor claims of Jackson.
vi Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups core structural borrowings: 2010 m 2009 m Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years 115 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 135 4 to 5 years Over 5 years 3,426 3,394 Total 3,676 3,394 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 325 vii Management analyses the net core structural borrowings position as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Total core structural borrowings as above 3,676 3,394 Less: Holding company cash and short-term investments recorded within the consolidated statement of financial position 1,232 1,486 Net core structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations 2,444 1,908 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2010 m 2009 m BORROWINGS IN RESPECT OF SHORT-TERM FIXED INCOME SECURITIES PROGRAMMES Commercial paper 2,311 2,031 Medium-Term Notes 2010 7 Bank Notes 2013 249 2,560 2,038 note i NON-RECOURSE BORROWINGS OF US OPERATIONS note ii Jackson 10 Investment subsidiaries 20 20 note iii Piedmont and CDO funds 60 183 90 203 OTHER BORROWINGS Bank loans and overdrafts 5 148 Obligations under finance leases 2 3 note iv Other borrowings 347 359 354 510 notes v, vi TOTAL 3,004 2,751 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these subsidiaries and funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those subsidiaries and funds.
ii This represents senior debt issued through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and was secured on collateral posted with FHLB by Jackson.
iii Piedmont is an investment trust investing in certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in the US.
These borrowings pertain to debt instruments issued to external parties.
iv Other borrowings represents amounts whose repayment to the lender is contingent on future surpluses emerging from certain contracts specified under the arrangement.
If insufficient surplus emerges on the contracts, there is no recourse to other assets of the Group and the liability is not payable to the degree of shortfall.
v In addition to the listed debt above, 200 million Floating Rate Notes were issued by Prudential plc in October 2010 which mature in April 2011.
These Notes have been wholly subscribed by a Group subsidiary and accordingly have been eliminated on consolidation in the Group financial statements.
These Notes were originally issued in October 2008 and have been reissued upon their maturity.
vi Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations: 2010 m 2009 m Less than 1 year 2,496 2,183 1 to 2 years 98 121 2 to 3 years 401 239 3 to 4 years 172 4 to 5 years 6 Over 5 years 9 30 Total 3,004 2,751 326 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H13: BORROWINGS CONTINUED Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 2010 m 2009 m note i Non-recourse borrowings of consolidated investment funds 1,287 1,016 note ii 100m 8.5% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds of Scottish Amicable Finance plc 100 100 Other borrowings predominantly obligations under finance leases 135 168 note iii TOTAL 1,522 1,284 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those funds.
ii The interests of the holders of the bonds issued by Scottish Amicable Finance plc, a subsidiary of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund, are subordinate to the entitlements of the policyholders of that fund.
iii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups borrowings attributable to with-profits operations: 2010 m 2009 m Less than 1 year 96 33 1 to 2 years 635 77 2 to 3 years 99 706 3 to 4 years 74 1 4 to 5 years 1 1 Over 5 years 617 466 Total 1,522 1,284 H14: PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES Provisions 2010 m 2009 m I3 Provision in respect of dened benefit pension schemes: deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to PAC with-profits fund i. e. absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 106 122 Attributable to shareholder-nanced operations i. e. to shareholders equity 114 128 220 250 Add back: Investments in Prudential insurance policies 227 187 Provision after elimination of investments in Prudential insurance policies and matching policyholder liability from Group statement of financial position 447 437 Other provisions see below 282 206 TOTAL PROVISIONS 729 643 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 327 Analysis of other provisions: 2010 m 2009 m At 1 January 206 155 Charged to income statement: Additional provisions 182 148 Unused amounts released 10 13 Used during the year 106 75 Exchange differences 10 9 At 31 December 282 206 Comprising: Legal provisions 20 15 Restructuring provisions 26 17 Other provisions 236 174 TOTAL 282 206 Of the other provisions balance of 282 million 2009: 206 million, 141 million 2009: 148 million is expected to be settled within one year.
Employer contributions expected to be paid into dened benefit pension schemes within one year are shown in note I3.
Legal provisions Of the legal provisions of 20 million 2009: 15 million, 19 million 2009: 11 million relates to Jackson.
Jackson has been named in civil proceedings, which appear to be substantially similar to other class action litigation brought against many life insurers in the US, alleging misconduct in the sale of insurance products.
During 2010 and 2009, 1 million and 9 million was paid respectively.
In 2010, Jackson established an additional 9 million reserve for potential litigation.
We expect the provision balance to be utilised over the next six years.
Restructuring provisions Restructuring provisions of 26 million 2009: 17 million primarily relate to restructuring activities of UK insurance operations.
The provisions pertain to property liabilities resulting from the closure of regional sales centres and branches and staff terminations and other transformation costs to enable streamlining of operations.
These activities resulted in additional provisions in 2010 of 14 million.
During 2010, 2 million 2009: 1 million of unused provision was released, and 3 million 2009: 3 million was paid.
We expect the provision balance to be paid out within the next six years.
Other provisions Other provisions of 236 million 2009: 174 million include provisions of 200 million 2009: 143 million relating to staff benefit schemes which are mostly benets that will generally be paid out within the next three years.
During 2010, another 148 million 2009: 112 million was provided including exchange movement of 2 million 2009: 6 million, 6 million 2009: 10 million of unused provision was released and 92 million 2009: 54 million was paid.
Other provisions also include 28 million 2009: 27 million relating to various onerous contracts where, in 2010, an additional 10 million 2009: 15 million was provided and 8 million 2009: 4 million was used.
Other provisions also include 4 million 2009: 4 million of regulatory provisions, where nil 2009: 9 million was provided, 1 million 2009: 2 million of unused provision was released and nil 2009: 3 million was paid.
Contingencies and related obligations Litigation regarding the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS and other matters The Company is currently awaiting the decision of the English High Court in a case that was heard in early 2011 involving PSPS.
This case relates to the dened benefit section of PSPS and was heard at the request of the trustees of the scheme who are seeking to clarify the Companys obligations relating to discretionary pension increases.
In the event that the English High Court decides that the obligations relating to discretionary pension increases are greater than the Company currently believes, the assumptions applied for IAS 19 reporting purposes, and therefore the level of surplus of the Scheme may be affected.
The Court decision might also affect the level of future deficit funding agreed concurrently with the next actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2011.
328 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H14: PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED The impact of such changes on the deficit funding obligations of the shareholders funds of the Group would be determined in the context of the pre-existing features applicable to the PSPS scheme described below: i Although underlying surpluses of the scheme are not recognised for IAS 19 Group accounting purposes under IFRIC 14, the surplus determined on the actuarial valuation basis would be considered in the context of setting altered levels of future deficit funding, and ii the allocation of any such altered future deficit funding between the PAC life fund and shareholder-backed operations would be in a 70 30 ratio.
This ratio was determined following detailed consideration in 2005 of the source of previous contributions and has been applied from then when deficit funding has been required.
Additional details on the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme and these features are included in note I3.
Consistent with the Companys expectations as to the decision of the Court, no amount has been provided in the 2010 financial statements for this item.
In addition to the legal proceedings relating to Jackson mentioned under the legal provisions section above, and PSPS, the Group is involved in other litigation and regulatory issues.
Whilst the outcome of each of the above matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that the ultimate outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash ows.
Pension mis-selling review The pensions review by the UK insurance regulator of past sales of personal pension policies required all UK life insurance companies to review their cases of potential mis-selling and record a provision for the estimated costs.
The Group met the requirement of the FSA to issue offers to all cases by 30 June 2002.
The table below summarises the change in the pension mis-selling provision for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009.
The change in the provision is included in benets and claims in the income statement and the movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds has been determined accordingly.
2010 m 2009 m Balance at beginning of year 322 345 Changes to actuarial assumptions and method of calculation 37 20 Discount unwind 2 3 Redress to policyholders 46 44 Payment of administrative costs 1 2 Balance at end of year 314 322 The pension mis-selling provision is included within the liabilities in respect of investment contracts with discretionary participation features under IFRS 4.
The pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2010 set out above of 314 million is stochastically determined on a discounted basis.
The average discount rate implied in the movement in the year is four per cent.
The undiscounted amounts at 31 December 2010 expected to be paid in each of the years ending 31 December are as follows: 2010 m Year ended 31 December 2011 40 2012 10 2013 9 2014 10 2015 9 Thereafter 441 Total undiscounted amount 519 Aggregate discount 205 Discounted pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2010 314 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 H: OTHER INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS POSITION ITEMS 329 The directors believe that, based on current information, the provision, together with future investment return on the assets backing the provision, will be adequate to cover the costs of pension mis-selling including administration costs.
Such provision represents the best estimate of probable costs and expenses.
However, there can be no assurance that the current provision level will not need to be increased.
The costs associated with the pension mis-selling review have been met from the inherited estate see below.
Accordingly, these costs have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Hence policyholders pay-out values have been unaffected by pension mis-selling.
In 1998, Prudential stated that deducting mis-selling costs from the inherited estate would not impact its bonus or investment policy and it gave an assurance that if this unlikely event were to occur, it would make available support to the fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged.
The assurance was designed to protect both existing policyholders at the date it was announced, and policyholders who subsequently purchased policies while the pension mis-selling review was continuing.
The bonus and investment policy for each type of with-profits policy is the same irrespective of whether or not the assurance applies and this is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
Hence removal of the assurance for new business has had no impact on policyholder returns.
Mortgage endowment products review In common with several other UK insurance companies, the Group used to sell low-cost endowment products related to repayment of residential mortgages.
At sale, the initial sum assured is set at a level such that the projected benets, including an estimate of the annual bonus receivable over the life of the policy, will equal or exceed the mortgage debt.
Because of a decrease in expected future investment returns since these products were sold, the FSA is concerned that the maturity value of some of these products will be less than the mortgage debt.
The FSA has worked with insurance companies to devise a programme whereby the companies write to customers indicating whether they may have a possible shortfall and outline the actions that the customers can take to prevent this possibility.
The Group is exposed to mortgage endowment products in respect of policies issued by Scottish Amicable Life plc SAL and the Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society SALAS which were transferred into SAIF.
At 31 December 2010, provisions of 2 million 2009: 4 million in respect of the SAL policies and 20 million 2009: 35 million in SAIF were held within policyholder liabilities to cover potential compensation in respect of mortgage endowment product mis-selling claims.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund, this provision has no impact on shareholders.
In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2010 Prudential Assurances main with-profits fund paid compensation of 2 million 2009: 2 million in respect of mortgage endowment products mis-selling claims and at 31 December 2010 held a provision of 32 million 2009: 47 million in respect of further compensation.
The movement in this provision has no impact on the Groups profit before tax.
In May 2006, the Group introduced a deadline for both Prudential and Scottish Amicable mortgage endowment complaints.
Impacted customers have three years to lodge a mis-selling complaint in line with the time limit prescribed by the FSA and the ABI.
Guaranteed annuities Prudential Assurance used to sell guaranteed annuity products in the UK and at 31 December 2010 held a provision of 24 million 2009: 31 million within the main with-profits fund within policyholder liabilities to honour guarantees on these products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and at 31 December 2010 a provision of 336 million 2009: 284 million was held in SAIF to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund, the movement in this provision has no impact on shareholders.
Other matters Inherited estate of the PAC long-term fund The assets of the with-profits sub-fund WPSF within the long-term insurance fund of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable over time to policyholders from the WPSF is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the WPSF is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years from various sources.
The inherited estate, as working capital, enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing the benets associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment exibility for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of certain significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate uctuates from year to year depending on the investment return and the extent to which it has been required to meet smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
330 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H: OTHER INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS CONTINUED H14: PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED Support for long-term business funds by shareholders funds As a proprietary insurance company, PAC is liable to meet its obligations to policyholders even if the assets of the long-term funds are insufficient to do so.
The assets, represented by the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, in excess of amounts expected to be paid for future terminal bonuses and related shareholder transfers the excess assets in the long-term funds could be materially depleted over time by, for example, a significant or sustained equity market downturn, costs of significant fundamental strategic change or a material increase in the pension mis-selling provision.
In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of the excess assets within the long-term fund was such that the Groups ability to satisfy policyholders reasonable expectations was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders funds to the long-term funds to provide financial support.
In 1997, the business of SALAS, a mutual society, was transferred to PAC.
In effecting the transfer, a separate sub-fund, SAIF, was established within PACs long-term business fund.
This sub-fund contains all the with-profits business and all other pension business that was transferred.
No new business has been or will be written in the sub-fund and the sub-fund is managed to ensure that all the invested assets are distributed to SAIF policyholders over the lifetime of SAIF policies.
With the exception of certain amounts in respect of the unitised with-profits life business, all future earnings arising in SAIF are retained for SAIF policyholders.
Any excess deficiency of revenue over expense within SAIF during a period is attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on this business.
With the exception of certain guaranteed annuity products mentioned earlier in this note, and certain products which include a minimum guaranteed rate of accumulation, the majority of SAIF with-profits policies do not guarantee minimum rates of return to policyholders.
Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benets in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
Guarantees and commitments Guarantee funds in both the UK and the US provide for payments to be made to policyholders on behalf of insolvent life insurance companies.
These guarantee funds are nanced by payments assessed on solvent insurance companies based on location, volume and types of business.
The Group estimated its reserve for future guarantee fund assessments for Jackson, included within other liabilities to be 16 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 15 million.
Similar assessments for the UK businesses were not significant.
The directors believe that the reserve is adequate for all anticipated payments for known insolvencies.
At 31 December 2010, Jackson has unfunded commitments of 363 million 2009: 339 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and of 88 million 2009: 89 million related to commercial mortgage loans.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and the directors do not expect a material adverse impact on the operations to arise from them.
Jackson owns debt instruments issued by securitisation trusts managed by PPM America.
At 31 December 2010, the support provided by certain forbearance agreements Jackson entered into with the counterparty to certain of these trusts could potentially expose Jackson to maximum losses of 332 million, if circumstances allowed the forbearance period to cease.
Jackson believes that, so long as the forbearance period continues, the risk of loss under the agreements is remote.
The Group has provided other guarantees and commitments to third-parties entered into in the normal course of business but the Company does not consider that the amounts involved are significant.
H15: OTHER LIABILITIES 2010 m 2009 m Creditors arising from direct insurance and reinsurance operations 821 615 Interest payable 66 83 Other items 242 179 TOTAL 1,129 877 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 331 I: OTHER NOTES I1: ACQUISITION OF UNITED OVERSEAS BANK LIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED On 1 February 2010, the Group acquired from United Overseas Bank UOB its 100 per cent interest in UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore for total cash consideration, after post-completion adjustments of SGD67 million 32 million, of SGD495 million 220 million.
As part of the transaction the Group also entered into a long-term strategic partnership to develop a major regional bancassurance business with UOB.
In addition to the amounts above, the Group incurred 2 million of acquisition-related costs excluding integration costs.
These have been excluded from the consideration transferred and have been recognised as an expense in the period, in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisition m Cash consideration 220 Less: fair value of identiable net assets acquired 79 Goodwill arising on acquisition 141 Goodwill arose on the acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore because the acquisition included revenue and cost synergies.
These synergies could not be recognised as assets separately from goodwill because they are not capable of being separated from the Group and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged, either individually or together with any related contracts and did not arise from contractual or other legal rights.
None of the goodwill arising on this transaction is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition m Assets: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: present value of acquired in-force business 12 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 16 Investments of long-term business and other operations 1,004 Cash and cash equivalents 89 Total assets 1,121 Liabilities: Policyholder liabilities 968 Other non-insurance liabilities 74 Total liabilities 1,042 FAIR VALUE OF IDENTIFIABLE NET ASSETS ACQUIRED 79 Total assets include loans and receivables with a fair value of 15 million.
This value represents the gross contractual amount and all amounts have been collected.
The consolidated statement of cash ows contains a 133 million net cash outow in respect of this acquisition representing cash consideration of 220 million, acquisition related costs paid of 2 million less cash and cash equivalents acquired of 89 million.
Impact of acquisition on the results of the Group Included in the Groups consolidated profit before tax for the year is 8 million attributable to UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore.
Consolidated revenue, including investment returns, for the year includes 125 million in respect of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore.
Had the acquisition been effected at 1 January 2010, the revenue and profit of the Group from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2010 would not have been materially different.
332 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I2: DILUTION OF THE GROUPS HOLDING IN PRUHEALTH IN 2010 AND SALE OF TAIWAN AGENCY BUSINESS IN 2009 a Dilution of the Groups holding in PruHealth in 2010 On 1 August 2010, Discovery Holdings of South Africa, the Groups joint venture partner in its investment in PruHealth, completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of Standard Life Healthcare, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Standard Life Group, for 138 million.
Discovery funded the purchase of the Standard Life Healthcare transaction, and contributed Standard Life Healthcare to PruHealth as a capital investment on completion.
As a result of the transaction, Discovery have increased their shareholding in PruHealth from the previous level of 50 per cent to 75 per cent, and Prudentials shareholding has been reduced from 50 per cent of the previous joint venture structure to 25 per cent of the new structure with the much enlarged business.
As a result of this dilution in holding and the consequential loss of control, PruHealth has been reclassied from a joint venture to an associate and the entity is no longer proportionally consolidated from the date of the transaction.
In accordance with IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures a gain of 30 million arises upon the dilution, representing the difference between the fair value of the enlarged 25 per cent investment still held and the book value of the original 50 per cent investment holding.
b Sale of Taiwan agency business in 2009 In 2009, the Company sold the assets and liabilities of its agency distribution business and its agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance Company Ltd of Taiwan for the nominal sum of NT$1.
In addition, the Company invested 45 million to purchase a 9.99 per cent stake in China Life through a share placement.
The business transferred represented 94 per cent of Prudentials in-force liabilities in Taiwan and included Prudentials legacy interest rate guaranteed products.
The sale was completed on 19 June 2009.
The Company retains its interest in life insurance business in Taiwan through its retained bank distribution partnerships and its direct investment in China Life made in 2009.
At 31 December 2010 the Companys interest in China Life was 8.66 per cent 2009: 9.99 per cent.
The effect on the IFRS income statement was a pre-tax loss of 621 million comprising a loss on sale of 559 million and trading losses before tax up to the date of sale of 62 million.
After allowing for tax and other adjustments, the reduction to shareholders equity was 607 million.
The loss on disposal of 559 million includes cumulative foreign exchange gains of 9 million recycled through the profit and loss account as required by IAS 21.
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of were 388 million and restructuring and other costs incurred in cash in the year were 64 million.
In addition, the Company invested 45 million in China Life as described above.
Accordingly, the cash outow for the Group arising from the sale of the Taiwan agency business, as shown in the consolidated statement of cash ows, was 497 million.
I3: STAFF AND PENSION PLANS a Staff and employment costs The average number of staff employed by the Group during the year was: 2010 2009 Business operations: Asian operations 17,988 19,502 US operations 3,545 3,371 UK operations 4,459 4,516 TOTAL 25,992 27,389 The costs of employment were: 2010 m 2009 m Business operations: Wages and salaries 1,052 878 Social security costs 69 61 Other pension costs see below 95 95 Pension actuarial and other losses gains charged to income statement 26 138 121 233 TOTAL 1,242 1,172 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 333 Other pension costs comprises 58 million 2009: 57 million relating to dened benefit schemes and 37 million 2009: 38 million relating to dened contribution schemes of continuing operations.
Of the dened contribution scheme costs, 26 million 2009: 27 million related to overseas dened contribution schemes.
The 58 million 2009: 57 million relating to dened benefit schemes comprises a charge of 27 million 2009: 29 million relating to PSPS and a charge of 31 million 2009: 28 million for other schemes.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS as described in note b i 1 below, the 27 million 2009: 29 million for PSPS represents the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members and the unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS.
The charge of 31 million 2009: 28 million for other schemes comprises 18 million 2009: 19 million charge on an economic basis, reecting the total assets of the schemes, and a further 13 million 2009: 9 million charge to adjust for amounts invested in Prudential insurance policies to arrive at the IAS 19 basis charge.
The loss of 26 million 2009: 138 million for actuarial and other gains comprises a loss of 15 million 2009: 155 million for actuarial and other losses on an economic basis and 11 million actuarial gains 2009: 17 million to adjust for amounts invested in Prudential insurance policies.
The derivation of these amounts is shown in note b i 7. b Pension plans i Defined benefit plans 1 Summary The Group business operations operate a number of pension schemes.
The specic features of these plans vary in accordance with the regulations of the country in which the employees are located, although they are, in general, funded by the Group and based either on a cash balance formula or on years of service and salary earned in the last year or years of employment.
The largest dened benefit scheme is the principal UK scheme, namely the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS : 86 per cent 2009: 86 per cent of the underlying scheme liabilities of the Group dened benefit schemes are accounted for within PSPS.
The Group also operates two smaller dened benefit schemes for UK employees in respect of Scottish Amicable and M&G.
For all three schemes the projected unit method was used for the most recent full actuarial valuations.
There is also a small dened benefit scheme in Taiwan but as part of the sale of the Taiwan agency business completed in June 2009, the Group settled the majority of the obligations under the scheme as a significant number of employees transferred out.
Dened benefit schemes in the UK are generally required to be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years in order to assess the appropriate level of funding for schemes in relation to their commitments.
These valuations include assessments of the likely rate of return on the assets held within the separate trustee administered funds.
PSPS was last actuarially valued as at 5 April 2008.
This valuation demonstrated the scheme to be 106 per cent funded by reference to the Scheme Solvency Target that forms the basis of the schemes statutory funding objective.
No formal deficit funding plan was required.
However, in recognition of the fall in value of the Schemes investments between 5 April 2008 and the completion of the actuarial valuation, an additional funding akin to deficit funding was agreed with the Trustees.
This is subject to a reassessment when the next valuation is completed.
The total contribution being currently made by the Group into the scheme, representing the annual accrual cost and deficit fundings, are 50 million per annum.
deficit funding for PSPS is apportioned in the ratio of 70 30 between the PAC life fund and shareholder-backed operations following detailed consideration in 2005 of the sourcing of previous contributions.
Employer contributions for ongoing service of current employees are apportioned in the ratio relevant to current activity.
In 2010, total contributions for the year including expenses and augmentations were 55 million at 31 December 2009: 67 million.
The market value of scheme assets as at 5 April 2008 was 4,759 million.
The actuarial assumptions used in determining benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit costs for the purposes of the valuation were as follows: Rate of increase in salaries Nil Rate of ination 3.5% Rate of increase of pensions in payment for ination: Guaranteed maximum 5% 3.5% Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5% Discretionary Nil Expected returns on plan assets 4.55% Mortality assumptions The tables used for PSPS pensions in payment at 5 April 2008 were: Base post retirement mortality: For current male female pensioners 108.6 per cent 103.4 per cent of the mortality rates of the 2000 series mortality tables, published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau.
For male female non-pensioners 113.4 per cent 97.4 per cent of the 2000 series rates.
Allowance for future improvements to post retirement mortality: For males females 100 per cent 75 per cent of Medium Cohort subject to a minimum rate of improvement of 1.75 per cent 1 per cent up to the age of 90, decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120.
334 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I3: STAFF AND PENSION PLANS CONTINUED The valuation of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme as at 31 March 2008 demonstrated the scheme to be 91 per cent funded, with a shortfall of actuarially determined liabilities of nine per cent, representing a deficit of 38 million.
Based on this valuation, deficit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a seven year period were made from July 2009 of 7.3 million per annum.
Since the valuation date, there has been deterioration in the funding level.
During 2010, the Group agreed to pay additional funding of 5.8 million per annum from October 2010 until conclusion of the next formal valuation, or until the funding level reaches 90 per cent, whichever is the earlier.
The IAS 19 deficit of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme at 31 December 2010 of 146 million 2009: 139 million has been allocated approximately 50 per cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the shareholders fund.
The valuation of the M&G Pension Scheme as at 31 December 2008 was nalised in January 2010 and demonstrated the scheme to be 76 per cent funded.
Based on this valuation, deficit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a five year period are being made from January 2010 of 14.1 million per annum for the first two years and 9.3 million per annum for the subsequent three years.
The IAS 19 deficit of the M&G Pension Scheme on an economic basis at 31 December 2010 was 27 million 2009: 36 million and is wholly attributable to shareholders.
The next triennial valuations for the PSPS, Scottish Amicable and M&G pension schemes are scheduled to take place by 5 April 2011, 31 March 2011 and 31 December 2011.
Under the IAS 19 valuation basis, the Group applies IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
Under IFRIC 14, for PSPS, where the Group does not have unconditional right of refund to any surplus in the scheme, the surplus is not recognised.
Additionally, the Group has to recognise a liability for committed deficit funding obligation to PSPS.
At 31 December 2010, the Group has not recognised the underlying PSPS surplus of 485 million gross of deferred tax 2009: 513 million and has recognised a liability for deficit funding to 30 June 2012 for PSPS of 47 million, gross of deferred tax 2009: 75 million.
The asset and liabilities of PSPS are unaffected by the impact of the application of IFRIC 14.
PSPS is managed on an economic basis for the longer-term benefit of its current and deferred pensioners and active members.
The surplus in PSPS is available to absorb future adverse asset value movements and, if required, strengthening in mortality assumptions.
As at 31 December 2010, after the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, the shareholders share of the pension liability for PSPS deficit funding obligation and the deficits of the dened benefit pension schemes amounted to a 83 million liability net of related tax relief 2009: 92 million.
These amounts are determined after including amounts invested by the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as explained later in this note.
On the economic basis including investments of the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as assets, for 2010, a 27 million 2009: 32 million pre-tax shareholder charge to operating results based on longer-term returns arises.
In addition, outside the operating result but included in total profits is a pre-tax shareholder loss of 10 million 2009: 74 million for shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses.
In addition, also on the economic basis, the PAC with-profits sub-fund was charged 18 million 2009: charge of 16 million for its share of the pension charge of PSPS and Scottish Amicable and charged with 5 million 2009: 81 million for its share of net actuarial and other losses on the scheme assets and liabilities.
As shareholder profits for the PAC with-profits sub-fund reects the surplus for distribution, these amounts are effectively absorbed by an increased credit in the income statement for the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus.
At 31 December 2010, after the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, the total share of the liability for deficit funding on PSPS and the deficit on the smaller Scottish Amicable Scheme attributable to the PAC with-profits fund amounted to a liability of 99 million 2009: 110 million net of related tax relief.
2 Corporate governance The rules of the Groups largest pension arrangement, the dened benefit section of PSPS, a final salary scheme, specify that, in exercising its investment powers, the Trustees objective is to achieve the best overall investment return consistent with the security of the assets of the scheme.
In doing this, consideration is given to the nature and duration of the schemes liabilities.
The Trustee sets the benchmark for the asset mix, following analysis of the liabilities by the Schemes Actuary and, having taken advice from the Investment Managers, then selects benchmark indices for each asset type in order to measure investment performance against a benchmark return.
The Trustee reviews strategy, the asset mix benchmark and the Investment Managers objectives every three years, to coincide with the Actuarial Valuation, or earlier if the Scheme Actuary recommends.
Interim reviews are conducted annually based on changing economic circumstances and financial market levels.
The Trustee sets the general investment policy and species any restrictions on types of investment and the degrees of divergence permitted from the benchmark, but delegates the responsibility for selection and realisation of specic investments to the Investment Managers.
In carrying out this responsibility, the Investment Managers are required by the Pensions Act 1995 to have regard to the need for diversication and suitability of investments.
Subject to a number of restrictions contained within the relevant asset management agreements, the Investment Managers are authorised to invest in any class of investment asset.
However, the Investment Managers will not invest in any new class of investment asset without prior consultation with the Trustee.
The Trustee consults the Principal Employer, the Prudential Assurance Company, on these investment principles, but the ultimate responsibility for the investment of the assets of the scheme lies with the Trustee.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 335 The investment policies and strategies for the other two UK dened benefit schemes, the M&G Group Pension Scheme and the Scottish Amicable Staff Pension Scheme, which are both final salary schemes, follow similar principles, but have different target allocations reecting the particular requirements of the schemes.
3 Assumptions The actuarial assumptions used in determining benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit costs for the years ended 31 December were as follows: 2010 % 2009 % Discount rate 5.45 5.8 Rate of increase in salaries 5.55 5.7 Rate of ination 3.55 3.7 Rate of increase of pensions in payment for ination: Guaranteed maximum 5% 3.55 3.7 Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5 2.5 Discretionary 2.5 2.5 Expected returns on plan assets 5.9 4.5 The discount rate has been determined by reference to an AA corporate bond index adjusted, where applicable, to allow for the difference in duration between the index and the pension liabilities.
The rates of 2.5 per cent shown are those for PSPS.
Assumed rates of increase of pensions in payment for inflation for all other schemes are 3.55 per cent in 2010 2009: 3.7 per cent.
The calculations are based on current actuarially calculated mortality estimates with a specic allowance made for future improvements in mortality.
The 2010 specic allowance is in line with custom calibration of the 2009 mortality model from the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries CMI.
The 2009 specic allowance was broadly based on adjusted versions of the medium cohort projections prepared by the CMI.
The tables used for PSPS immediate annuities in payment at 31 December 2010 were: Male: 108.6 per cent PNMA00 with improvements in line with a custom calibration of the CMIs 2009 mortality model, with a long-term mortality improvement rate of 1.75 per cent per annum: and Female: 103.4 per cent PNFA00 with improvements in line with a custom calibration of the CMIs 2009 mortality model, with a long-term mortality improvement rate of 1.00 per cent per annum.
The tables used for PSPS immediate annuities in payment at 31 December 2009 were: Male: 108.6 per cent PNMA00 with medium cohort improvements subject to a oor of 1.75 per cent up to the age of 90, decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120: and Female: 103.4 per cent PNFA00 with 75 per cent medium cohort improvements subject to a oor of 1.00 per cent up to the age of 90 and decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120.
The assumed life expectancies on retirement at age 60, based on the mortality table used was: 2010 years 2009 years Male Female Male Female Retiring today 27.7 29.0 27.4 28.6 Retiring in 20 years time 30.3 31.1 30.1 30.8 The mean term of the current PSPS liabilities is around 18 years.
Using external actuarial advice provided by the scheme actuaries being Towers Watson for the valuation of PSPS, Aon Consulting Limited for the M&G scheme, and Xanity Consulting for the Scottish Amicable scheme, the most recent full valuations have been updated to 31 December 2010, applying the principles prescribed by IAS 19.
336 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I3: STAFF AND PENSION PLANS CONTINUED In July 2010, the UK Government announced plans to use the Consumer Price Index CPI in place of the Retail Price Index RPI in its determination of the statutory minimum pension increases for private sector occupational pension schemes.
In December 2010, the Government published the statutory revaluation order for 2011 which confirms the change to use CPI.
In addition, the Government has also published in December 2010 a consultation paper which sets out the Governments views on the impact that the switch from RPI to CPI will have on the private sector occupational pension schemes.
The consultation period closed on 2 March 2011.
For the Groups UK dened benefit schemes, the pensions in deferment and or pensions in payment for certain tranches of these schemes are subject to statutory increases in accordance with the schemes rules and may therefore be affected by the Governments decision to change the indexation from RPI to CPI.
Other tranches, where RPI is specified in the scheme rules, are unaffected.
The above has no impact on the results for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The impact of this change, if and when made, will be recognised in a future period.
Using the underlying information as at 31 December 2010, the estimated effect of such a change would give rise to an accounting benefit of approximately 30 million to the Groups operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and profit attributable to shareholders before tax and 20 million shareholders equity.
4 Summary financial position The Group liability in respect of dened benefit pension schemes is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Economic position: deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to the PAC with-profits fund i. e. absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 106 122 Attributable to shareholder-backed operations i. e. to shareholders equity 114 128 Economic deficit as explained in note 5 below 220 250 Exclude: investments in Prudential insurance policies offset on consolidation in the Group financial statements against insurance liabilities 227 187 deficit under IAS 19 included in provisions in the statement of financial position as explained in note 7 below 447 437 The following disclosures explain the economic position and IAS 19 basis of accounting after eliminating investment in Prudential insurance policies on consolidation.
5 Group economic financial position The following tables illustrate the movement on the financial position of the Groups dened benefit pension schemes on an economic basis.
The underlying position on an economic basis reects the assets including investments in Prudential policies that are offset against liabilities to policyholders on the Group consolidation and the liabilities of the schemes.
At 31 December 2010, the investments in Prudential policies comprise 118 million 2009: 101 million for PSPS and 227 million 2009: 187 million for the M&G scheme.
Separately, the economic financial position also includes the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
For PSPS, where there are constraints in the trust deed to prevent the company access, the surplus is not recognised and a liability to additional funding is established as described earlier.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 337 Estimated pension scheme deficit economic basis Movements on the pension scheme deficit determined on the economic basis are as follows, with the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 being shown separately: 2010 m Charge credit to income statement Operating results based on longer-term Actuarial and Surplus deficit Surplus deficit investment other gains in scheme at in scheme at returns and losses Contributions 31 Dec 2010 1 January 2010 note a note b paid note c ALL SCHEMES UNDERLYING POSITION WITHOUT THE EFFECT OF IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 338 7 109 90 312 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 285 11 71 39 264 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 53 18 38 51 48 Related tax 15 5 11 14 13 Net of shareholders tax 38 13 27 37 35 EFFECT OF IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 588 38 94 532 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 407 29 66 370 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 181 9 28 162 Related tax 51 2 9 44 Net of shareholders tax 130 7 19 118 WITH THE EFFECT OF IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 250 45 15 90 220 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 122 18 5 39 106 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 128 27 10 51 114 Related tax 36 7 2 14 31 Net of shareholders tax 92 20 8 37 83 338 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I3: STAFF AND PENSION PLANS CONTINUED 2009 m Charge credit to income statement Operating results based on longer-term Actuarial and Disposal of Surplus deficit Surplus deficit investment other gains Taiwan in scheme at in scheme at returns and losses Contributions agency 31 Dec 2009 1 January 2009 note a note b paid business note c ALL SCHEMES UNDERLYING POSITION WITHOUT THE EFFECT OF IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 644 71 337 85 17 338 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 483 33 207 42 285 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 161 38 130 43 17 53 Related tax 47 11 36 11 4 15 Net of shareholders tax 114 27 94 32 13 38 EFFECT OF IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 793 23 182 588 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 550 17 126 407 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 243 6 56 181 Related tax 68 2 15 51 Net of shareholders tax 175 4 41 130 WITH THE EFFECT OF IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 149 48 155 85 17 250 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 67 16 81 42 122 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 82 32 74 43 17 128 Related tax 21 9 21 11 4 36 Net of shareholders tax 61 23 53 32 13 92 Including the effect of exchange translation difference.
a The components of the charge credit to operating results gross of allocation of the share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund are as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Service cost 38 34 Finance expense income: Interest on pension scheme liabilities 294 277 Expected return on assets 325 240 Total charge credit without the effect of IFRIC 14 7 71 Effect of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes 38 23 Total charge after the effect of IFRIC 14 45 48 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 339 The net charge to operating profit gross of the share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund of 45 million 2009: 48 million is made up of a charge of 27 million 2009: 29 million relating to PSPS and a charge of 18 million 2009: 19 million for other schemes.
This net charge represents: 2010 m 2009 m Underlying IAS 19 charge for other pension schemes 18 19 Cash costs for PSPS 23 25 Unwind of discount on opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 4 4 45 48 Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the charge to operating profit on longer-term investment returns for PSPS reects the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members.
In addition, the charge to the operating results also includes a charge for the unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS.
b The components of the credit charge for actuarial and other gains and losses gross of allocation of the share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund but excluding the charge relating to the sold Taiwan agency business are as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Actual less expected return on assets 306 108 Losses on changes of assumptions for plan liabilities 411 521 Experience losses gains on liabilities 4 76 Total charge without the effect of IFRIC 14 109 337 Effect of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes 94 182 Actuarial and other gains and losses after the effect of IFRIC 14 15 155 The net charge for actuarial and other gains and losses is recorded within the income statement but, within the segmental analysis of profit, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses i. e. net of allocation of the share to the PAC with-profits funds is excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The 2010 actuarial losses of 109 million primarily reects the effect of decrease in risk discount rates and the change in economic assumptions underlying PSPS commutation factors partially offset by the effect of decreases in ination rates and the excess of market returns over long-term assumptions.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the actuarial gains and losses do not include those of PSPS.
In addition, as a result of applying IFRIC 14, the Group has recognised a provision for deficit funding in respect of PSPS.
The change in 2010 in relation to this provision recognised above as other gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes was nil 2009: 48 million.
340 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I3: STAFF AND PENSION PLANS CONTINUED c On the economic basis, after including the underlying assets represented by the investments in Prudential insurance policies as scheme assets, the underlying statements of financial position of the schemes at 31 December were: 2010 2009 Other Other schemes schemes PSPS note iii Total PSPS note iii Total m m m % m m m % Equities 548 277 825 14 830 266 1,096 20 Bonds 3,864 339 4,203 70 3,406 280 3,686 67 Properties 199 29 228 4 272 15 287 5 note i Cash-like investments 740 8 748 12 441 2 443 8 Total value of assets 5,351 653 6,004 100 4,949 563 5,512 100 Present value of benefit obligations 4,866 826 5,692 4,436 738 5,174 485 173 312 513 175 338 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes: Derecognition of PSPS surplus 485 485 513 513 Adjust for deficit funding for PSPS 47 47 75 75 note ii Pre-tax deficit 47 173 220 75 175 250 Notes i The PSPS has entered into a derivatives based strategy to match the duration and inflation profile of its liabilities.
This involved a reallocation from other investments to cash-like investments with an interest and inflation swap overlay.
In broad terms, the scheme is committed to making a series of payments related to LIBOR on a nominal amount and in return the scheme receives a series of fixed and inflation-linked payments which match a proportion of its liabilities.
As at 31 December 2010, the nominal value of the interest and inflation-linked swaps amounted to 1.1 billion 2009: 1.1 billion and 1.8 billion 2009: 1.9 billion respectively.
ii The resulting scheme deficit arising from the excess of liabilities over assets at 31 December 2010 of 220 million 2009: 250 million comprised a deficit of 106 million 2009: 122 million attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and deficit of 114 million 2009: 128 million attributable to shareholder operations.
iii In addition to PSPS, there are two smaller schemes in the UK, the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme, and the M&G Pension Scheme, with a combined deficit at 31 December 2010 of 173 million 2009: 175 million, gross of tax.
There is also a small scheme in Taiwan, with a negligible amount of deficit at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
As part of the sale of the Taiwan agency business in June 2009 the Group has settled the majority of the obligations under the Taiwan scheme relating to the employees who were transferred out.
The movements in the deficit on the economic basis between scheme assets and liabilities were: 2010 m 2009 m Current service cost 13 11 Other finance income 5 8 Cash costs and unwind of discount on opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 27 29 Contributions 90 85 Actuarial and other gains and losses 15 155 Movement due to the sold Taiwan agency business and exchange translation difference 17 Net increase decrease in deficit 30 101 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 341 6 Movement in IAS 19 basis financial position The change in the present value of the benefit obligation and the change in fair value of the assets for the total of the PSPS, Scottish Amicable, M&G and Taiwan schemes over the period were as follows: 2010 m PSPS Other schemes Total IAS 19 basis: IAS 19 basis: Investments Economic change in Economic Provision change in fair in Prudential basis: present value basis: for deficit value of plan insurance total of benefit net funding assets policies assets obligations obligations Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 376 187 563 563 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 738 738 Provision for deficit funding for PSPS 75 75 75 376 187 563 738 250 Service cost current charge only 13 13 Interest cost 43 43 Expected return on plan assets 25 13 38 38 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Employer contributions 55 15 20 35 90 Actuarial gains losses 20 11 31 46 15 benefit payments 10 5 15 15 Cash costs and unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 27 27 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 426 227 653 653 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 826 826 Provision for deficit funding of PSPS 47 47 Economic basis deficit 220 342 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I3: STAFF AND PENSION PLANS CONTINUED 2009 m PSPS Other schemes Total IAS 19 basis: IAS 19 basis: Investments Economic change in Economic Provision change in fair in Prudential basis: present value basis: for deficit value of plan insurance total of benefit net funding assets policies assets obligations obligations Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 357 157 514 514 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 598 598 Provision for deficit funding for PSPS 65 65 65 357 157 514 598 149 Service cost current charge only 11 11 Interest cost 35 35 Expected return on plan assets 18 9 27 27 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Employer contributions 67 9 9 18 85 Actuarial gains losses 6 17 23 130 107 benefit payments 11 6 17 17 Cash costs and unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 29 29 Movement in the provision for deficit funding for PSPS 48 48 Disposal of Taiwan agency business, including exchange translation difference 3 3 20 17 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 376 187 563 563 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 738 738 Provision for deficit funding of PSPS 75 75 Economic basis deficit 250 7 IAS 19 basis financial position as consolidated The IAS 19 basis pensions deficit can be summarised as follows: 2010 m 2009 m 2008 m 2007 m 2006 m Fair value of plan assets, end of year 5,659 5,224 5,057 5,150 4,988 Present value of funded benefit obligation 5,438 4,951 4,493 4,826 5,023 Funded status 221 273 564 324 35 Present value of unfunded obligations M&G scheme 254 223 180 189 187 33 50 384 135 222 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes Derecognition of PSPS surplus 485 513 728 528 141 Set up obligation for deficit funding for PSPS 47 75 65 102 143 Adjustment in respect of investment of PSPS in Prudential policies 118 101 103 140 126 deficit recognised in the statement of financial position 447 437 306 355 380 The M&G pension scheme assets are invested in Prudential insurance policies.
For IFRS accounting purposes, the M&G scheme is in effect unfunded.
Please see above for more details.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 343 2010 m 2009 m COMPONENTS OF NET PERIODIC PENSION COST Current service cost 38 34 Interest cost 294 277 Expected return on assets economic basis 325 240 Less: expected return on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 21 16 Expected return on assets IAS 19 basis 304 224 28 87 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 30 30 I3a Pension cost as referred to in note 58 57 Actuarial gains and losses economic basis 109 337 Less: actuarial gains on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 20 8 129 329 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 103 191 I3a Actuarial gains and losses IAS 19 basis as referred to in note 26 138 Net periodic pension cost included within acquisition and other operating expenditure in the income statement 84 195 Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the effect on the net periodic pension cost for PSPS was to replace the usual IAS 19 pension charges and credits with the cash cost of contribution for ongoing services of active members and also not to report the actuarial gains and losses.
In determining the expected return on scheme assets for 2010, the 5.9 per cent 2009: 4.5 per cent rate shown below has been applied to the opening assets.
The long-term expected rate of return has been taken to be the weighted average by market value of the long-term expected rates of return on each major asset class shown below: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m % m % m % m % m % SCHEME ASSETS IAS 19 BASIS BEFORE EFFECT OF IFRIC 14 Equity 610 11 917 18 875 17 1,332 26 1,432 29 Bonds 4,095 72 3,587 69 2,619 52 1,299 25 2,185 44 Properties 206 4 278 5 290 6 583 11 621 12 Cash-like investments 748 13 442 8 1,273 25 1,936 38 750 15 Total 5,659 100 5,224 100 5,057 100 5,150 100 4,988 100 Prospectively for 2011 % 2010 % 2009 % LONG-TERM EXPECTED RATE OF RETURN Equity 8.2 8.5 6.8 Bonds 4.6 5.3 4.8 Properties 6.9 6.75 6.05 Cash-like investments 4.75 4.75 2.0 Weighted average long-term expected rate of return 5.1 5.9 4.5 The expected rates of return have been determined by reference to long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and equity and other market conditions at the statement of financial position date.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 631 million 2009: 348 million on an IAS 19 basis.
344 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I3: STAFF AND PENSION PLANS CONTINUED None of the scheme assets included shares in Prudential plc or property occupied by the Prudential Group.
2010 m 2009 m 2008 m 2007 m 2006 m Fair value of scheme assets, end of year IAS 19 basis 5,659 5,224 5,057 5,150 4,988 Present value of the benefit obligation, end of year 5,692 5,174 4,673 5,015 5,210 Underlying scheme assets in surplus deficit of benefit obligation, before the effect of IFRIC 14 33 50 384 135 222 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 4 76 145 14 18 Percentage of scheme liabilities at 31 December 0.07 % 1.47% 3.10% 0.28% 0.35 % Experience adjustments on scheme assets IAS 19 basis 287 100 277 7 140 Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 5.07% 1.91% 5.48 % 0.14 % 2.81% The experience adjustments on scheme liabilities in 2008 of a gain of 145 million related mainly to the true up reecting improvements in data consequent upon the 2008 triennial valuation of PSPS.
Total employer contributions expected to be paid into the Group dened benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2011 amounts to 94 million 2010: 88 million.
8 Sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities of the PSPS, Scottish Amicable and M&G pension schemes to key variables The table below shows the sensitivity of the underlying PSPS, Scottish Amicable and M&G pension scheme liabilities at 31 December 2010 of 4,866 million, 572 million and 254 million respectively 2009: 4,436 million, 515 million and 223 million to changes in discount rates and ination rates.
In addition, the table below shows the sensitivity of the underlying PSPS, Scottish Amicable and M&G pension scheme liabilities at 31 December 2010 to changes to mortality rate assumptions.
2010 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities on IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 5.45% to 5.25% Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.6% Scottish Amicable 5.2% M&G 5.1% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 5.45% to 5.65% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.5% Scottish Amicable 4.9% M&G 4.8% Rate of ination Decrease by 0.2% from 3.55% to 3.35% with Decrease in scheme liabilities by: consequent reduction in salary increases PSPS 1.0% Scottish Amicable 5.0% M&G 4.5% Mortality rate Increase life expectancy by one year Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 2.1% Scottish Amicable 2.5% M&G 2.9% 2009 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities on IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 5.8% to 5.6% Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.5% Scottish Amicable 5.2% M&G 4.9% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 5.8% to 6.0% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.2% Scottish Amicable 4.8% M&G 4.9% Rate of ination Decrease by 0.2% from 3.7% to 3.5% with Decrease in scheme liabilities by: consequent reduction in salary increases PSPS 0.9% Scottish Amicable 4.9% M&G 4.5% Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 345 The sensitivity of the underlying pension scheme liabilities to changes in discount, ination and mortality rates as shown above does not directly equate to an impact on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity due to the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 on PSPS and the allocation of a share of the interest in financial position of the PSPS and Scottish Amicable schemes to the PAC with-profits fund as described above.
The sensitivity to the changes in the key variables as shown in the table above has no significant impact on the pension costs included in the Groups operating results.
This is due to the pension costs charged in each of the periods presented being derived largely from market conditions at the beginning of the period.
After applying IFRIC 14 and to the extent attributable to shareholders, any residual impact from the changes to these variables is reected as actuarial gains and losses on dened benefit pension schemes within the supplementary analysis of profits.
The relevance of this to each of the three UK schemes is described further below.
For PSPS, the underlying surplus of the scheme of 485 million 2009: 513 million has not been recognised under IFRIC 14.
Any change in the underlying scheme liabilities to the extent that it is not sufficient to alter PSPS into a liability in excess of the deficit funding provision will not have an impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Based on the underlying financial position of PSPS as at 31 December 2010, none of the changes to the underlying scheme liabilities for the changes in the variables shown in the table above have had an impact on the Groups 2010 results and financial position.
In the event that a change in the PSPS scheme liabilities results in a deficit position for the scheme which is recognisable, the deficit recognised affects the Groups results and financial position only to the extent of the amounts attributable to shareholder operations.
The amounts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund are absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus and have no direct effect on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity.
The deficit of the Scottish Amicable pension scheme has been allocated approximately 50 per cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the shareholders.
Accordingly, half of the changes to the scheme liabilities for the changes in the variables shown in the table above would have had an impact on the Groups shareholder results and financial position.
The M&G pension scheme is wholly attributable to shareholders.
9 Transfer value of PSPS scheme At 31 December 2010, it is estimated that the assets of the scheme are broadly sufficient to cover the liabilities of PSPS on a buyout basis including an allowance for expenses.
The buyout basis refers to a basis that might apply in the circumstance of a transfer to another appropriate financial institution.
In making this assessment it has been assumed that a more conservative investment strategy applies together with a more prudent allowance for future mortality improvements and no allowance for discretionary pension increases.
ii Other pension plans The Group operates various dened contribution pension schemes including schemes in Jackson and Asia.
The cost of the Groups contributions for continuing operations to these schemes in 2010 was 37 million 2009: 38 million.
I4: SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group maintains 10 main share award and share option plans relating to Prudential plc shares, which are described below.
The Group Performance Share Plan GPSP is the incentive plan in which all executive directors and other senior executives within the Group can participate.
This scheme was established as a replacement for the Restricted Share Plan RSP under which no further awards could be made after March 2006.
Awards are granted either in the form of a nil cost option, conditional right over shares, or such other form that shall confer to the participant an equivalent economic benefit, with a vesting period of three years.
The performance measure for the awards is that Prudentials Total Shareholder Return TSR outperforms an index comprising of peer companies.
Vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight line sliding scale basis.
Participants are entitled to the value of reinvested dividends that would have accrued on the shares that vest.
Beginning in 2010, newly issued shares will be used in settling the awards that vest and are released.
The RSP was, until March 2006, the Groups long-term incentive plan for executive directors and other senior executives designed to provide rewards linked to shareholder return.
Each year participants were granted a conditional option to receive a number of shares.
There was a deferment period of three years at the end of which the award vested to an extent that depended on the performance of the Groups shares including notional reinvested dividends and on the Groups underlying financial performance.
After vesting, the option may be exercised at zero cost at any time, subject to closed period rules, in the balance of a 10-year period.
Shares are purchased in the open market by a trust for the benefit of qualifying employees.
346 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I4: SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP is an incentive plan created to provide a common framework under which awards would be made to senior employees in the UK, Jackson and Asia including the Chief Executive Ofcers.
Awards under this plan are based on growth in Shareholder Capital Value on the European Embedded Value EEV basis with performance measured over three years.
Upon vesting of awards made up to 2008, half of the awards will be released as shares and the other half released in cash.
Since the year ended 31 December 2009 all awards made will be settled in shares after vesting.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of reinvested dividends over the performance period for those shares that vest.
The growth parameters for the awards are relevant to each region and vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight line sliding scale basis.
During 2009, the Remuneration Committee decided that future BUPP awards for the UK business unit would be based on the same relative TSR measure applied to GPSP awards.
As a result, 2010 awards made under the UK BUPP reect those TSR conditions applied to 2010 GPSP awards.
The Group maintains four share option schemes satisfied by the issue of new shares.
UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in the Prudential HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE scheme and the Asia-based executive directors can participate in the equivalent International SAYE scheme.
Dublin-based employees are eligible to participate in the Prudential International Assurance Sharesave Plan, and Hong Kong-based agents can participate in the Non-employee Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The schemes allow participants to save towards the exercise of options over Prudential plc shares, at an option price set at the beginning of the savings period as determined by reference to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the three business days immediately preceding the invitation at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price.
Participants may save up to 250 per month for three or five years.
On maturity at the end of the set term, participants may exercise their options within six months of the end of the savings period and purchase Prudential plc shares.
If an option is not exercised within six months, participants are entitled to a refund of their cash contributions plus interest if applicable under the rules.
The exercise period of the options granted may be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, for example on retirement, and may be extended in certain circumstances, for example on the death of the participant the personal representative may exercise the options beyond the normal exercise period.
Shares are issued to satisfy options that are exercised.
No options may be granted under the schemes if the grant would cause the number of shares which have been issued, or which remain issuable pursuant to options granted in the preceding 10 years under the scheme and other share option schemes operated by the Company, or which have been issued under any other share incentive scheme of the Company, to exceed 10 per cent of the Companys ordinary share capital at the proposed date of grant.
UK-based executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan which allows all UK-based employees to purchase shares of Prudential plc partnership shares on a monthly basis out of gross salary.
For every four partnership shares bought, an additional matching share is awarded, purchased on the open market.
Dividend shares accumulate while the employee participates in the plan.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn from the scheme at any time.
If the employee withdraws from the plan within five years, the matching shares are forfeit and if within three years, dividend shares are forfeit.
Jackson operates a performance-related share award which, subject to the prior approval of the Jackson Remuneration Committee, may grant share awards to eligible Jackson employees in the form of a contingent right to receive shares or a conditional allocation of shares.
These share awards have vesting periods of four years and are at nil cost to the employee.
Award holders do not have any right to dividends or voting rights attaching to the shares.
The shares are held in the employee share trust in the form of American Depository Receipts which are tradable on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Prudential Corporation Asia Long-Term Incentive Plan PCA LTIP is an incentive plan created in 2008 for senior employees and Chief Executive Ofcers to replace the Asia Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP.
Awards under the new PCA LTIP will vest after three years subject to the employee being in employment at the time of vesting without any performance conditions.
Awards will be discretionary and on a year by year basis determined by Prudentials full year financial results and the employees contribution to the business.
All awards will be in Prudential shares except for countries where share awards are not feasible due to securities and or tax reasons, where awards will be replaced by the cash value of the shares that would otherwise have been transferred.
Certain senior executives have annual incentive plans with awards paid in cash up to the target level of their plan.
The portion of any award for above target performance is made in the form of awards of shares deferred for three years, with the release of shares subject to close periods.
The shares are held in the employee share trust and shares equivalent to dividends otherwise payable will accumulate for the benefit of award holders during the deferral period up to the release date.
In addition, there are other share awards including the Prudential Corporation Asia Deferred Bonus Plan PCA DBP, Prudential Capital Deferred Bonus Plan PruCap DBP and other arrangements.
There are no performance conditions attaching to these deferred bonus plans and awards vest in full subject to the individual being employed by Prudential at the end of the vesting period.
The other arrangements relate to various awards that have been made without performance conditions to individual employees, typically in order to secure their appointment or ensure retention.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 347 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Options outstanding under SAYE schemes millions millions Beginning of year: 12.2 3.20 6.8 4.54 Granted 2.2 4.61 10.7 2.96 Exercised 0.6 3.15 0.4 3.98 Forfeited 0.2 3.44 0.5 3.87 Cancelled 0.5 3.37 3.8 4.58 Lapsed 0.3 3.89 0.6 4.42 End of year 12.8 3.40 12.2 3.20 Options immediately exercisable, end of year 0.2 5.52 0.3 4.45 The weighted average share price of Prudential plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 5.68 compared to 4.17 for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Movements in share awards outstanding under the Groups share-based compensation plans relating to Prudential plc shares at 31 December 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 2010 2009 Number of Number of awards awards Awards outstanding under incentive plans including conditional options millions millions Beginning of year: 19.2 14.5 Granted 11.2 11.1 Exercised 4.7 3.4 Forfeited 1.2 1.0 Expired 0.6 2.0 End of year 23.9 19.2 The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options outstanding at 31 December 2010.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 0 and 1 Between 1 and 2 Between 2 and 3 9.0 2.6 2.88 Between 3 and 4 0.1 1.3 3.59 3.67 Between 4 and 5 3.3 3.3 4.51 4.07 Between 5 and 6 0.4 1.0 5.59 0.2 5.63 Between 6 and 7 Between 7 and 8 12.8 2.8 3.40 0.2 5.52 348 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I4: SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options outstanding at 31 December 2009.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 0 and 1 Between 1 and 2 Between 2 and 3 10.0 3.6 2.88 Between 3 and 4 0.1 1.0 3.62 0.1 3.43 Between 4 and 5 1.5 3.0 4.37 0.2 4.73 Between 5 and 6 0.6 1.9 5.60 0.0 5.65 Between 6 and 7 Between 7 and 8 12.2 3.4 3.20 0.3 4.45 The years shown above for weighted average remaining contractual life include the time period from end of vesting period to expiration of contract.
The weighted average fair values of Prudential plc options and awards granted during the period are as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted average fair value Weighted average fair value SAYE SAYE GPSP Options Awards GPSP Options Awards 2.74 2.91 5.14 3.52 1.55 4.67 The fair value amounts relating to all options including conditional nil cost options above were determined using the Black-Scholes and the Monte Carlo option-pricing models using the following assumptions: 2010 2009 SAYE SAYE GPSP Options GPSP Options Dividend yield % 3.43 3.43 4.41 4.41 Expected volatility % 42.69 64.65 56.21 60.55 Risk-free interest rate % 1.70 1.07 1.92 2.15 Expected option life years 3.00 3.49 3.00 3.67 Weighted average exercise price 4.61 2.96 Weighted average share price 5.70 6.38 4.83 3.82 Under IFRS, compensation costs for all share-based compensation plans are determined using either the Black-Scholes model or the Monte Carlo model.
Share options and awards are valued using the share price at the date of grant.
The compensation costs for all awards and options are recognised in net income over the plans respective vesting periods.
The Group uses the Black-Scholes model to value all options and awards other than the GPSP, for which the Group uses a Monte Carlo model in order to allow for the impact of the TSR performance conditions.
These models are used to calculate fair values for share options and awards at the grant date based on the quoted market price of the stock at the measurement date, the amount, if any, that the employees are required to pay, the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rates and exercise prices.
The expected volatility is measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over a period up to the grant date equal to the expected life of options.
Risk-free interest rates are UK gilt rates with projections for three and five-year terms to match corresponding vesting periods.
Dividend yield is determined as the average yield over the year of grant and expected dividends are not incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
For the GPSP, volatility and correlation Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 349 between Prudential and an index constructed from a simple average of the TSR growth of 11 companies is required.
For grants in 2010, an average index volatility and correlation of 35 per cent and 82 per cent respectively, were used.
Changes to the subjective input assumptions could materially affect the fair value estimate.
When options are granted or awards made to employees, an estimate is made of what percentage is more than likely to vest, be forfeited, lapse or cancelled based on historical information.
Based on these estimates, compensation expense to be accrued at that date is calculated and amortised over the vesting period.
For early exercises of options or release of awards due to redundancy, death or resignation, the compensation expense is immediately recognised and for forfeitures due to employees leaving the Group, any previously recognised expense is reversed.
However, if an employee loses their award because of the Groups failure to meet the performance criteria, previously recognised expense is not reversed.
During the year, the Group granted share options to certain non-employee independent financial advisors.
Those options were measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions consistent with those of other share options.
These transactions were measured using an option model because the Group does not receive a separate and measurable benefit from those non-employees in exchange for the options granted.
As such, the fair value of the options themselves is more readily determinable than the services received in return.
c Total share-based payment expense Total expense recognised in the year in the consolidated financial statements related to share-based compensation is as follows: 2010 m 2009 m Share-based compensation expense 47 37 Amount accounted for as equity-settled 37 29 Carrying value at 31 December of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions 17 13 Intrinsic value of above liabilities for which rights had vested at 31 December 6 7 I5: KEY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION Key management constitutes the directors of Prudential plc as they have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Total key management remuneration amounts to 21,677,000 2009: 20,989,000.
Post-employment benets comprise the change in the transfer value of the accrued benefit relating to directors dened benefit pension schemes in the year and the total contributions made to directors other pension arrangements.
The share-based payments charge is the sum of 7,320,000 2009: 5,270,000, which is determined in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-Based Payments see note I4 and 3,837,000 2009: 2,102,000 of deferred share awards.
Total key management remuneration includes total directors emoluments of 14,225,000 2009: 15,090,000 as shown in the directors remuneration table and related footnotes in the directors remuneration report, and additional amounts in respect of pensions and share-based payments.
Further information on directors remuneration is given in the directors remuneration report.
I6: FEES PAYABLE TO AUDITOR 2010 m 2009 m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.9 1.8 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 6.1 5.5 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 2.4 2.7 Other services relating to taxation 0.4 0.6 Valuation and actuarial services 0.1 0.1 Services relating to other corporate finance transactions 0.1 0.7 All other services 1.0 1.0 Services relating to the AIA transaction 5.5 Total 17.5 12.4 In addition, there were fees incurred of 0.1 million 2009: 0.2 million for the audit of pension schemes.
350 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I6: FEES PAYABLE TO AUDITOR CONTINUED The fees for services relating to the AIA transaction of 5.5 million were primarily comprised of the following services: Accountants Report on historical financial information on Prudential Group Consulting Actuaries Report on AIA EEV information Technical accounting advice Financial due diligence Working capital review Synergies review Extraction comfort All services were specically approved by the Prudential Group Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services provided to the Group by its auditor and has developed a formal Auditor Independence Policy which sets out the types of services that the auditor may provide, consistent with the guidance in Sir Robert Smiths report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance and with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors objectivity and independence.
More information on these issues is given in the corporate governance report within this Annual Report.
I7: RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, OEICs, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as manager.
These entities are regarded as related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
The balances are included in the Groups statement of financial position sheet at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their IAS 39 classications.
The transactions are included in the income statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
Further details of the aggregate assets, liabilities, revenues, profits or losses and reporting dates of entities considered to be associates under IFRS are disclosed in note H8.
Executive ofcers and directors of the Company may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products marketed by Group companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons.
Apart from the transactions with directors referred to below, no director had interests in shares, transactions or arrangements that require disclosure, other than those given in the directors remuneration report.
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note I5.
In 2010 and 2009, other transactions with directors were not deemed to be significant both by virtue of their size and in the context of the directors financial positions.
As indicated above, all of these transactions are on terms broadly equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
I8: SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS i Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2010, all wholly owned were: Country of Main activity incorporation The Prudential Assurance Company Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Annuities Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL Insurance Scotland M&G Investment Management Limited Asset management England and Wales Jackson National Life Insurance Company Insurance US Prudential Assurance Company Singapore Pte Limited Insurance Singapore Owned by a subsidiary undertaking of the Company.
Each subsidiary has one class of ordinary shares and operates mainly in its country of incorporation, except for PRIL which operates mainly in England and Wales.
Details of all Prudential subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Returns of Prudential plc led with the UK Registrar of Companies and the Registrar of Companies in Hong Kong.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES 351 ii Dividend restrictions and minimum capital requirements Certain Group subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of cash dividends or otherwise to the parent company.
UK insurance companies are required to maintain solvency margins which must be supported by capital reserves and other resources, including unrealised gains on investments.
Furthermore, without the prior regulatory approval, dividends cannot be distributed if all dividends made within the preceding 12 months exceed the greater of Jacksons statutory net gain from operations or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus for the prior year.
In 2010, the maximum amount of dividends that could be paid by Jackson without prior regulatory approval is US$377 million 241 million in 2009: US$454 million 281 million.
The Groups Asian subsidiaries may remit dividends to the Group, in general, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
The Group capital position statement for life assurance businesses is set out in note D5, showing the available capital reecting the excess of regulatory basis over liabilities for each fund or group of companies determined by reference to the local regulation of the subsidiaries.
In addition, disclosure is also provided in note D5 of the local capital requirement of each of the fund or group of companies.
iii Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries During 2010, the Group acquired a 100 per cent interest in United Overseas Bank Life Assurance Limited UOB in Singapore.
Further details are set out in note I1.
On 1 October 2010, the PAC with-profits fund, via its venture fund holdings and as part of its investment portfolio, acquired control of Meterserve North West Limited and Meterserve North East Limited together referred to as Meterserve, increasing its 50 per cent stake to 100 per cent.
As this transaction is within the with-profits fund it has no impact on shareholders profit or equity for the period ended 31 December 2010.
The impact on the Groups consolidated revenue, including investment returns, is not material.
A summary of the consideration, goodwill and net assets acquired relating to Meterserve is provided in the table below: 2010 m Cash consideration paid 22 Fair value of existing stake 25 Total consideration 47 Net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 219 Derivative assets 35 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 11 Cash and cash equivalents 10 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 194 Other non-insurance liabilities 6 Fair value of net assets acquired 5 Total goodwill arising on acquisition attributable to the with-profits fund 42 The acquisition costs associated with this transaction were expensed as incurred and totalled less than 1 million.
Goodwill represents managements expectation of future income streams and is not allowable for tax.
As noted above the transaction increased the previously held stake from 50 per cent to 100 per cent.
The fair value of the existing stake at the date of the transaction was 25 million.
As the investment was held in the Groups balance sheet as a financial instrument classied as at fair value through profit and loss no gain or loss arises as a result of the transaction.
There were no new acquisitions or disposals by the PAC with-profits fund in 2009.
However, during 2009, the holding in the voting equity interest of Red Funnel increased from 90 per cent to 100 per cent.
Red Funnel is a venture capital holding owned by the PAC with-profits fund managed by M&G.
Other than the above there were no other material acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries during 2010 or 2009.
352 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I: OTHER NOTES CONTINUED I9: COMMITMENTS i Operating leases The Group leases various ofces to conduct its business.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2010 m 2009 m Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due during the following periods: Not later than 1 year 70 63 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 236 178 Later than 5 years 120 104 The total minimum future sublease rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases for land and buildings for the year ended 31 December 2010 were nil 2009: nil.
Minimum lease rental payments for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 92 million 2009: 105 million are included in the consolidated income statement.
ii Capital commitments The Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third-parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters.
The contractual obligations to purchase or develop investment properties at 31 December 2010 was 28 million 2009: nil.
I10: DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The charge of 14 million in 2009, which is net of nil tax, reects completion adjustments for a previously disposed business.
I11: CASH FLOWS Structural borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations comprise core debt of the parent company and Jackson surplus notes.
Core debt excludes borrowings to support short-term xed income securities programmes, non-recourse borrowings of investment subsidiaries of shareholder-nanced operations and other borrowings of shareholder-nanced operations.
Cash ows in respect of these borrowings are included within cash ows from operating activities.
Structural borrowings of with-profits operations relate solely to the 100 million 8.5 per cent undated subordinated guaranteed bonds which contribute to the solvency base of the Scottish Amicable Insurance fund SAIF a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC with-profits fund.
Cash ows in respect of other borrowings of with-profits funds, which principally relate to consolidated investment funds, are included within cash ows from operating activities.
I12: POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS In January 2011, the Company issued US$550 million 7.75 per cent Tier 1 subordinated debt, primarily to retail investors.
The proceeds, net of costs, were US$539 million and are intended to finance the repayments of the 500 million Tier 2 subordinated notes in December 2011.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL UNAUDITED STATEMENTS FINANCIAL INFORMATION 353 INDEX TO THE ADDITIONAL UNAUDITED FINANCIAL INFORMATION I.
Selected historical financial information of Prudential 354 Selected historical financial information of Prudential II.
IFRS profit and loss information 357 a Analysis of long-term insurance business pre-tax IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns by driver 362 b Asian operations analysis of IFRS operating profit by territory 363 c Analysis of asset management operating profit based on longer-term investment returns III.
IFRS balance sheet information 365 a Memorandum fair value of Jackson's GMDB and GMWB liabilities 367 b IFRS shareholders' funds summary by business unit and net asset value per share IV.
Other information 368 a Funds under management 368 b Effect of foreign currency rate movements on results 371 c Option schemes
