Business review Governance Accounts Controlling and measuring growth The Capita Group Plc 33 Our Management and Governance structure The Joint Chief Operating Ofcers and the 3.1 Divisional Board Directors are responsible for Maintaining strong structure the development and performance of the Independent divisional businesses.
They communicate and Governance and control monitor the application of Group-wide business External Auditors Group Board Our management structure and business objectives, policies, procedures and standards.
Non-Executive Chairman reporting process promote accountability and They work with and delegate responsibility to Auditors & knowledge sharing across the Group, keeping 3 Non-Executive Directors their management teams.
Remuneration management responsive to performance and 5 Executive Directors Committee Each of our business units prepares a trends in the business and the wider Chief Executive, comprehensive annual business plan.
This Group Finance Director, marketplace.
includes monthly revenue and cost forecasts for 2 Joint Chief Operating Ofcers, Our Board is responsible for establishing, the year ahead, taking into account new service Business Development Director maintaining and reviewing the Groups growth and product developments and changes in the strategy, financial performance, systems of competitive landscape.
The business units internal control and Group-wide policies.
financial plans feed into the Group financial See pages 61 to 90. model.
Monthly operational business MOB reviews Divisional Board focus on the performance of each business unit 13 Divisional Directors in each division.
Management teams assess Heads of divisions, acquisitions each units performance against plan and and strategic sales development discuss its ongoing development, determining 2 Senior Divisional Internal Finance Directors how planned targets will be met.
These are Governance Our robust management review forums to share knowledge and identify Group Compliance process enables the management challenges early, develop tactics, reallocate resources and refresh strategies.
Board team to have a detailed and Group Risk & Business Executive Directors attend divisional MOBs, Assurance current view of all our businesses, Monthly Operational ensuring they have a detailed knowledge of the Business MOB Reviews progress of the divisions and a monthly view of their performance against actual and anticipated performance against Board Executive Directors business plan and the challenges business plans.
Divisional Board Directors they are facing.
Working together Divisional Management Teams and sharing experience across the business units allows us to jointly resolve issues and enhance performance.
Business Units Risk Committees Vic Gysin Joint Chief Operating officer As at January 2011.
