Business review Governance Accounts Maintaining performance across our divisions The Capita Group Plc 59 4.
ICT, Health & Business Services Premier Medical Group, a leading medical Service Birmingham: Our partnership goes from 2011 priorities 2010 2009 assessments and legal reporting business, and strength to strength as we continue to deliver core m m Continue to deliver high quality services to FirstAssist Services, a provider of telephone advice ICT services and support Birmingham City Council's Birmingham City Council and sell Service Turnover 659.3 507.4 and assistance services, which were acquired in the business transformation programme, delivering over Birminghams services to wider West Midlands year, have added new capabilities and management to 90 projects to the Council in 2010.
In our 2010 Underlying operating profit 88.6 58.4 organisations, focusing on local authorities.
our wellbeing and health business and allow us to customer satisfaction survey, 95% of customers were Successfully deliver revenues service on behalf Underlying operating margin 13.4% 11.5% offer more services to the health and workforce satisfied with our support.
New developments include: of the Council from April 2011 management market introduction of data encryption to over 18,500 Capex 11.4 9.7 Continue our growth in the health market both The Information Standard, which offers certication computers further strengthening data security and organically and through acquisition and identify cross for health and social care information providers, has Voice over IP implemented across the Council driving selling opportunities to Capitas existing clients Comprised our ICT business, health business, made good progress and over 50 members and 90 out further efficiencies.
our Service Birmingham partnership, business Make further improvements to our travel and information providers have signed up to the scheme.
assumed total responsibility for the delivery of the conference services to enhance our product offer, travel administration, conferences and IT Services: We have continued to focus on extending Councils contact centre services.
We recruited and set the standard for service delivery in the UK and consulting businesses.
our capabilities through selective acquisitions and trained 176 new agents to meet the demands of more extend market reach.
Focus on smooth integration of organic growth: than 2 million customer contacts per year.
BSI Holdings into the business 2010 performance while continuing to support Capita businesses and developed and implemented SAP HR to better manage Deepen and expand our consulting client Capita Health Services: A combination of contract their clients, our IT services business has additionally employee and manager self service and expanded relationships.
Continue to strengthen capabilities and wins and key acquisitions during the year has allowed us successfully won IT Outsourcing ITO contracts from payroll services to around 35,000 employees.
knowledge within senior teams to implement strategy to increase and strengthen our presence in the health external clients across many of our key markets See case study on pages 40 and 41. for growth market.
Key achievements include: including contracts with West Sussex County Council Business Travel & Conferences: The business has Enhance capabilities and increase market reach to provide a high quality, exible and sustainable IT NHS Choices has progressed well and various new traded solidly in market conditions that continue to service and various outsourcing contracts to support through selective acquisitions.
online tools introduced offering users greater be challenging.
We have now centred our operation in establishments within the education sector.
We were knowledge and control of their health.
During the year Derby, providing an efficient one-stop-shop for our also named Scottish Partner of the Year by Cisco for there were 47 million visits to the Health A-Z section clients, and we have secured a significant number of the 2nd consecutive year and awarded the Cisco and the website has been certied by The Information CHKS is helping to support our clinical new clients: our corporate rail travel business in Channel Customer Service Satisfaction Excellence Standard as a producer of reliable health and social particular has grown strongly.
Our conferences business governance work very effectively.
What Award which is judged by customers.
NHS choices was a winner at the delivered over 200 conferences in highly diversied National eWellbeing Awards 2010 for its digital our acquisition of SunGard Public Sector Ltd, makes them different is the extremely elds.
Our acquisition of BSI Holdings Limited BSI more inclusion work a supplier of ICT, radio network services and than doubles the size of our operations in the business good access to and interaction with the communication systems to the emergency services NHS BSA contract to administer the processing and travel market and adds significant new accommodation dedicated CHKS consultant.
It is this and to central and local government, allows us to payment of circa 40 million dental claims and provide and meetings management capabilities.
enter into a new market sector.
structure that leads to very effective a managed IT service has commenced well and service Consulting: Working across both public and private levels have been maintained communication between us and this sectors the business has had a successful year winning new business with clients including the Department of plays an important part in helping Work and Pensions, Newcastle University, StartHere, meet our objectives.
It is an extremely Canterbury Christ Church University, and REED.
We have strengthened our management team to focus valuable addition to the excellent CHKS on further growth in current and new sectors.
Kevin Clarkson Chief Operating officer Deputy Chief Executive, North Cumbria University Hospitals NHS Trust CHKS was acquired by Capita in 2009 and is part of Capita Health Services
