Business review Governance Accounts Maintaining performance across our divisions The Capita Group Plc 56 1.
Life & Pensions Services Zurich: We have continued to maintain high levels of 2010 performance 2011 priorities 2010 2009 customer service and helped the Zurich and Sterling m m AXA Friends Provident : Our contract to administer Retain and grow our leading position as UK BPO brands to retain their Five Star industry ratings 3.2 million policies is progressing well.
Repatriation of provider in life and pensions Turnover 529.2 520.7 from the advisor community.
The Zurich account operations from a client-run contact centre in India to also received Investors in People re-accreditation in Focus on developing our relationships further Underlying operating profit 58.7 62.1 Capitas contact centre in Craigforth near Stirling has with existing clients and continue to win work from November.
We have delivered market leading retention been completed and customer feedback has been Underlying operating margin 11.1% 11.9% initiatives and helped to develop new products.
Transformation programmes are underway, In addition we have focused on transforming and Extend our operations into Europe where appropriate Capex 64.3 28.8 with the UK relocation programme delivering ahead streamlining processes resulting in significant and requested by existing clients of plan.
We continue to focus on simplifying and improvements and efficiencies in service.
Comprised all our life and pensions outsourced Move towards common functional service modernising the complex IT infrastructure and reducing Co-operative Financial Services: We successfully management and increase usage of our proprietary administration operations, including open and the cost base of the business.
See case study on completed the launch of the CFS Annuity Bureau, workow management system pages 20 and 21. closed books of individual life and pensions the platform migration of Collectives business from Continue to develop our employees to further policies and occupational pension schemes.
Prudential: We successfully completed our contact Threads to Utopia V and phase one of implementing enhance our service capability centre transformation programme and continue to Our operations in India were also managed archive document scanning to increase efficiency.
work with Prudential on enhancements to the back Use innovation to transform our operations and drive within this division.
An innovative review of service level agreements ofce operation.
Our upgrade of HartLink, our economies of scale led to end-to-end measures on 100% of customer We are the leading life and pensions proprietary platform, went exceptionally well with transactions.
We achieved 98% of our live service level Optimise offshore capability in Capita India and grow outsourcing provider and service our clients processes now running more effectively and user agreements in 2010 and we were awarded Team our IT services business in Pune interfaces more intuitive and easy to use.
The level of through a blended onshore nearshore offshore Company of the Year at the 2010 EG Awards for Successfully establish a nearshore facility in Krakow, customer interaction with the new online services has delivery model.
We continue to develop operational excellence.
As in previous years the consistently common IT platforms such as Elixir and Abbey Life: We have continued to deliver good service high-quality service we deliver to Prudential was HartLink and have successfully implemented a for this book of business, as demonstrated by positive recognised by major industry awards.
single, centrally hosted telephony system across customer satisfaction levels shown in a recent Abbey Phoenix Royal London: Successfully signed separate Life policyholders survey.
many parts of our life and pensions operations.
contracts to directly support Royal London from our Capita Hartshead: We have maintained our strong These improvements allow us to provide further Glasgow operation and continue to deliver a high level presence in pension scheme administration and scale benets, cost efficiencies and excellent of service quality to both Royal London and Phoenix actuarial and pensions consulting.
With excellent Group formerly Pearl.
customer service to our clients.
Capitas work in Belfast has been support and loyalty from our client base we have Aviva: Our outbound work for Aviva commenced in renewed our contracts to provide group pension instrumental in enabling Aviva to Belfast in September 2009.
We have contacted in administration including those on behalf of the achieve our 2010 Existing Customer excess of 54,000 customers and been extremely Environment Agency and Thames Water.
successful in generating new business, retaining existing Management programme objectives.
Offshore: Capita India is an integral part of Capitas business and providing qualied leads.
In April 2010 Capita have excelled in brand empathy, blended onshore nearshore offshore delivery model we also commenced the administration of a book of and now services 18 different clients from 5 sites.
In product and segment knowledge, and offshore investments for Aviva: this builds on our track addition to being the largest offshore operations for UK record of delivering a full range of administration customer empathy which has resulted life and pensions administration, we continue to grow services for cross-border life assurance portfolios, in conversion rates well above our our BPO capability for other sectors such as general and further strengthens our presence in Dublin.
insurance and finance and accounting.
have also expanded our service capability in India.
James Henderson Head of Customer Management, Aviva The majority of the business that Capita administers on behalf of AXA Sun Life transferred to Friends Provident in September 2010.
