Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 70 The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups Auditors, The Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit and it advises the Board on the appointment, independence and fees accruing to the Auditors, and specic assignments are discussed in objectivity of the Auditors and on the remuneration for both statutory advance with the Auditors and agged for the approval of the Audit audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of Committee as appropriate and in accordance with the Companys policy the statutory audit with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee annually on the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors.
The Audit performs an independent assessment of the suitability and performance Committee reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on an of the Auditors in making its recommendation to the Board for their annual basis and considers implications for the objectivity and re-appointment.
independence of the relationship with the Auditors.
The Committee met with the Group Finance Director to discuss the Ensuring conicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the appointment of the Auditors KPMG Audit Plc and their performance selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group since their appointment in August 2010.
This discussion also included the is involved.
Such conicts may arise across public or private sector clients scope of the audit that was required for the year ending 31 December and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in 2010.
This process meant the Committee could discuss in detail the the award process for external audit assignments.
transition to the new Auditors and recommend the appointment of the Policy on Auditor independence Auditors to the Board, which it did.
Therefore, KPMG Audit Plc will be The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place safeguards proposed as Auditors of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General to Auditor objectivity and independence.
It has therefore established a Meeting.
policy on the provision of services by the Groups Auditors.
The policy The lead audit partner is rotated at least on a 5-yearly basis.
Details of describes the circumstances in which the Auditors may be permitted to audit and non-audit fees are given in note 8 on page 105. undertake non-audit work for the Group.
The Committee oversees Auditors compliance with the policy and considers and approves requests to use the Auditors for non-audit work.
Any assignment where the expected fee During the year, the Board felt it was time to review the audit services is above the relevant threshold requires specic approval from the required to support Capita as Ernst & Young LLP had been the Groups Committee or a member of the Committee.
The Deputy Company Auditors since Capitas otation in 1984.
In agreement with the Audit Secretary deals with day to day administration of the policy, facilitating Committee, the Board decided that it was appropriate to put the Capita requests for approval by the Committee.
The policy is reviewed by the audit to competitive tender and KPMG Audit Plc was successful in this Committee annually.
A resolution to appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Auditors will be put forward Remuneration Committee at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its Directors` remuneration report on pages 79 to 90. relationship with the Auditors and the key safeguards are: The Group Finance Director monitors the independence of the Auditors as part of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness and reports to the Audit Committee The Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the audit fee against other comparable companies both within and outside of its sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process.
