Business review Governance Accounts Other statutory and regulatory information The Capita Group Plc 76 The Group has considerable financial resources together with long term share options or own Capita shares.
In keeping with its belief that contracts with a wide range of public and private sector clients and employees are the Groups most valuable asset, the Group operates suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is employee awards schemes.
These celebrate the core values that embody well placed to manage its business risk successfully.
the organisation and reward employees for service excellence, effective teamwork, service to the community and innovation.
After making enquiries, and in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, the Payment of suppliers Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers` have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the contract terms.
In 2010 the Company had an average of 41 days purchases foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 2009: 40 days` purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Charitable and political donations Disabled persons During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.7m 2009: 0.5m.
It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications No political contributions were made.
Further details of the Groups for employment of disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to charitable donations and work within the community can be found on participate in all career development opportunities available to employees.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled to continue in their employment or to be retrained for other Financial instruments positions in the Group.
The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, bank loans, finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of these is to raise Employee involvement funds for the Groups operations.
In addition various other financial The Group is committed to involving all employees in the performance instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise directly from and development of the Group.
Its approach to employee development its operations.
From time to time, the Group also enters into derivative offers continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward development.
The Group supports employees through a comprehensive exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage interest risk range of key business and management skills courses and an annual and currency risk, arising from the Groups operations and its sources management development programme.
Capita Academy and Capita of finance.
Manager Academy were launched at the end of 2009 to provide a more The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate comprehensive approach to key skills training and personal development.
risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
The Group encourages all of its employees to participate fully in the The Group borrows in selected currencies at xed and oating rates of business through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group interest and makes use of interest rate swaps and currency swaps to through: frequent email notices: internal notice board statements: the generate the desired interest prole and to manage its exposure to interest Group employee intranet, Capita Connections, and a regular email rate uctuations.
communication reviewing the performance of the Group from the perspective of the Directors.
Capita Connections enables employees to In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance between manage their work more efficiently and to share information within and continuity of funding and exibility through the use of multiple sources of between business units and employees are encouraged to contribute funding including bonds, bank loans, unsecured loan notes, finance lease news, views and feedback.
The Group maintains a strong communications and overdrafts, over a broad spread of maturities.
network and employees are encouraged, through its open door policy, In respect of credit risk, the Group trades only with recognised, to discuss with management matters of interest to the employee and creditworthy third parties.
It is the Groups policy that all clients who subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verication procedures.
The Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee Save As You Earn Scheme, In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with and the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a share incentive plan, are both the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
rmly established and are designed to promote employee share ownership and to give employees the opportunity to participate in the future success of the Group.
Approximately 17% of the Groups eligible employees have
