Business review Governance Accounts Other statutory and regulatory information The Capita Group Plc 77 With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Powers of Directors Group, such as cash, financial investments and derivative instruments, The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty.
are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles The Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of Association of the Company and to any directions given by special of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek resolution, including the Companys power to repurchase its own shares.
assurance from the counterparties to ensure that they can full their The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special obligations.
resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency risk, Change of control except in respect of its overseas operations in India, which generates exposure to movements in the Indian Rupee exchange rate.
The Group All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions in relation to a seeks to mitigate the effect of this exposure by entering forward currency change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest instruments, in the form of non-deliverable forward contracts, to x the and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction Sterling cost of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in of any performance conditions at that time.
Further details of the Groups financial instruments can The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banks be found in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements on page 118. and other financial institutions.
The Groups bank debt contains a change of control provision under which the banks may require immediate Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the repayment in full on change of control.
The bonds issued by the Group benefit of Directors contain a change of control provision which requires the Group to offer Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are under an obligation to to prepay the bonds in full if a change of control event occurs and the disclose any indemnities which are in force in favour of their directors.
Group does not obtain an investment grade credit rating.
The current Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity There are no other significant contracts in place that would take effect, in favour of the Directors of the Company which indemnifies them in alter or terminate on the change of control of the Company.
respect of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur in the execution of their duties as Directors.
Copies of the relevant extract from the Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the venue of the 2011 Annual General Meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
