Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 96 1 Corporate information All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Notes to the 31 December 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Directors on 23 February 2011.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the consolidated The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review on pages 54 to 60. reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies even if that results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Underlying profit for the year ended 31 December 2010 The Group separately presents amortisation, the movement in the mark to market d Changes in accounting policies valuation of certain financial instruments and specific non-recurring items in the The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year income statement which, in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately except as follows: by virtue of their size and incidence in order for users of the financial statements to The Group has adopted the following new amendments to IFRS and IFRIC obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying interpretations during the year.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share based Payment Arrangements accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at Items Amendment the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the Improvements to IFRSs 2009 reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The principal effects of these changes are as follows: The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next Financial Statements Amended The revised business combinations standard financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement introduces significant changes in the accounting for business combinations.
Changes of defined benefit obligations and provisions see note 25.
The measurement of affect the valuation of non-controlling interests, the accounting for transaction costs, intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of contingent consideration and of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines business combinations achieved in stages.
These changes will impact the amount of whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and thus requires an estimation of the goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs and value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate IAS 27 Amended requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary see note 16.
Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires estimation of future without loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on as owners.
Therefore such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will they assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 32. give rise to a gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by a subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
The a Statement of compliance changes by IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 Amended affect future acquisitions or loss of The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries control of subsidiaries and transactions with non-controlling interests after 1 January the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 2010.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with This change in accounting policy was applied prospectively and had no material the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. impact on earnings per share.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its IFRS 2 Share based Payment Group Cash-settled Share based Payment Transactions individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 134 to 143.
The standard has been amended to clarify the accounting for group cash-settled share b Basis of preparation based payment transactions.
This amendment also supersedes IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain The adoption of this amendment by the Group as of 1 January 2010 did not have any financial instruments and the pension assets have been measured at fair value.
The impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The Amendment This amendment addresses the designation of a one-sided risk in a consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are hedged item and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk in particular situations.
rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
The adoption of this amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 97 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued g Foreign currency translation Improvements to IFRSs In April 2009 the International Accounting Standards Board The functional and presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc and its United issued its 2nd omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to Kingdom subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
The adoption of these amendments, initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
which are effective from 1 January 2010, did not have any impact on the financial Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the position or performance of the Group.
functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners This interpretation provides taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at interpretation had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings e Revenue are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of Revenue is earned within the United Kingdom, Europe, India and South-East Asia.
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Other than in respect are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
of service contracts, described below, and where the Group is acting as lessor see v, The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro and the Indian revenue represents fee income recognised in respect of services provided during the rupee.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are period stated net of value added tax.
retranslated into the presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc at the rate of For time and materials contracts which are those where Capita provide staff to exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated clients at hourly or daily rates, revenue is recognised on the basis of time worked.
at the weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on Revenue on contracts where there is an ongoing service e. g. life and pension policy the retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a administration, hardware maintenance is recognised over the period during which the foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that service is provided.
particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
Contracts where there are distinguishable components are separated and revenue The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior is recognised individually on the basis that each component can be reliably estimated.
to the transition date as permitted by IFRS 1.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative Revenues and costs relating to each element are recognised simultaneously.
translation differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
f Service contracts i Brownfield outsourcing contracts A brownfield contract is one where there is a h Property, plant and equipment transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
For brownfield contracts all costs Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any incurred prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the represents fee income in respect of services provided.
estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years ii Greenfield outsourcing contracts A greenfield contract is one in which an entirely Leasehold improvements period of the lease new service is being established for a client.
For these contracts no profit is recognised Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years until service delivery commences and is being invoiced.
Upon commencement, revenue represents fees invoiced in respect of services provided.
Direct incremental costs The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment incurred on the contract prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be contract, excluding any overheads, are included in prepayments and amortised over recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the the life of the contract.
On some contracts, non-refundable payments are received, estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable prior to full service commencement, on the achievement of agreed contract delivery amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net milestones.
These are recognised as revenue when earned.
selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current iii Property consultancy and transformation contracts Revenue represents the sales market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For value of work done in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amounts to be invoiced after the year-end.
Profits are recognised on long term amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
contracts where the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
In Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative calculating this, the percentage of completion method is used based on the proportion expenses line item of costs incurred to the total estimated cost.
Cost includes direct staff costs and An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when outlays.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
immediately such losses are forecast.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference In respect of construction contracts, gross amounts due from clients are stated at between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on the income statement in the year in which the item is derecognised.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 98 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Notes to the consolidated financial statements i Borrowing costs Following initial recognition goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of reserves and does not get recycled through the income statement.
interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cashThe Group will capitalise borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction generating units which are expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
commences on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group continues to expense borrowing costs Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating relating to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009. unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
j Business combinations and goodwill Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method as at the that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is acquisition date, which is the date on which control is passed to the Group.
included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cashFor acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the acquisition is measured as the aggregate generating unit retained.
of the fair value of the consideration transferred plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination on a Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests transaction by transaction basis, the Group elects to measure the non-controlling Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of interests either at its fair value or at its proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and net assets at the date of acquisition.
therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the or securities, are expensed as incurred and included within administrative expenses and subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which included within the non-underlying column.
non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition the owners of the parent.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 Amended, goodwill was recognised on the settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the In a business combination achieved in stages, the Group remeasures its previously net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or loss, if any, in profit or loss.
k Intangible assets Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the fair Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a value of the consideration transferred and the recognised amount of any nonbusiness acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following controlling interests plus the fair value of any existing equity interest over the net initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any recognised amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
There were no indefinitelived assets in 2009 or 2010.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date and 1 January 2010 expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses For acquisitions between the Groups IFRS transition date of 1 January 2004 and line item.
1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually Groups interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable assets, liabilities and or at the cash-generating unit level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled as Contingent consideration was recognised only where the Group had a present follows: obligation and the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate brands are amortised evenly over their useful economic lives of between 5 and was determinable.
Any subsequent adjustment to the contingent consideration was 10 years recognised as part of goodwill.
software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date between 1.5 and 15 years On transition to the adoption of IFRS, the Group took advantage of the exemption client lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of allowed in IFRS 1 not to restate business combinations which took place prior to the date between 4 and 10 years of transition.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 6.5 years.
stated at net book value as at this date deemed cost.
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life ranging from 5 to 20 years.
Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 99 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued r Surplus properties l Recoverable amount of non-current assets The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset s Pre-contract costs exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to Pre-contract award bidding costs are expensed as incurred.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cashgenerating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an t Pension schemes individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
schemes the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the m Investments and other financial assets income statement for the year when they are due.
All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed In addition, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may in a number of other defined benefit pension schemes, all of which require not be recoverable.
contributions to be made to separate trustee-administered funds.
The costs of Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
providing benefits under these schemes are determined separately for each scheme Available for sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and is based on Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income investment income include financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair statement, unless the changes are conditional on employees remaining in service for value through the income statement.
a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through amortised on a straight-line basis over the average vesting period.
profit or loss if the assets are part of a group of financial assets which are managed and When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the management strategy.
scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and n Trade and other receivables related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the settlement or curtailment occurs.
the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
The interest cost element of the defined benefit pension charge represents a change in the present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time o Cash and cash equivalents and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand benefit obligation taking into account material changes in the obligation during the and short term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
effect on fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings In respect of 3 of the defined benefit pension schemes in which the Group All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value.
participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligation over the period After initial recognition loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by Actuarial gains and losses are fully recognised in equity through the statement taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
of comprehensive income such that the balance sheet reflects the schemes surplus Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are or liability at the balance sheet date.
Current and past service cost are charged to derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
operating profit with the interest cost, net of expected return on assets in the plans, q Provisions included within administrative expenses.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 100 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued w Income tax Notes to the consolidated financial statements u Derivative financial instruments Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill reference to market rates for similar instruments.
except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the liability or a forecast transaction.
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the income The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance statement, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a nonprofit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the balance sheet date.
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in and not in the income statement.
equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising x Share based payments from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement and are presented The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense v Leasing over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing substance of the arrangement at inception date and is concerned with whether the model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent upon the use of a specific asset or assets conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Group as a lessee: Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance performance conditions are satisfied.
charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements income.
best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original Group as a lessor: Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental income expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental arising from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the basis over the lease term.
original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
