Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 78 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Statement of Directors Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares applicable law and regulations.
are entitled to participate in the payment of dividends pro rata to their responsibilities in respect Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent holding.
The Board may propose and pay an interim dividend and of the Annual Report and company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they recommend a final dividend, in respect of any accounting period out of are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with the profits available for distribution under English law.
A final dividend the financial statements IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare may be declared by the shareholders in the General Meeting by ordinary the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK resolution, but no dividend may be declared in excess of the amount Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted recommended by the Board.
At any General Meeting a resolution put to vote at the meeting shall Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial be decided on a poll.
This will be a change from previous years, but the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of Company feels that this is in line with best practice.
On a poll every the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company every share of which they are the holder.
financial statements, the Directors are required to: No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Restrictions on transfer of shares For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors to, in their absolute UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certicated form unless departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped, at the registered ofce statements of the Company, or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a recognised person where a certicate has Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certicate for inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may continue in business.
reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records They may also refuse to register any such transfer where it is in favour of that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions more than 4 transferees or in respect of more than 1 class of shares.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncerticated the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial form in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general from the requirement under the Uncerticated Securities Regulations to responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to register the transfer.
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Annual General Meeting Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for The 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate at Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London, Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
At the AGM a number of resolutions will be The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the proposed.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
was sent to shareholders with the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts and Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of includes notes explaining the business to be transacted.
In May 2010 financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
shareholders granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 62,298,429 million ordinary shares which will expire at the conclusion of Details of the principal risk categories can be found on page 39. the 2011 AGM.
15,403,930 ordinary shares were purchased during 2010.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
