Business review Governance Accounts Targeting growth markets The Capita Group Plc 25 1.
Central government 9% of Group revenue 2.
Local government 20% of Group revenue Capita is the leading provider of BPO services in Capita continues to lead the local government Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing central government.
Our contracts span BPO market and works with the majority of Post the October 2010 Spending Review, Pressure to deliver value for money services recruitment and employment checking, local authorities, including 10 strategic increased pressure on central government against a backdrop of increased service accreditation and records management as well partnerships, to help to deliver efficient, exible departments to deliver quality frontline demand and reduced revenues as administration of public sector pensions and public services for citizens and communities.
services at substantially reduced levels of The October 2010 Comprehensive Spending public grant programmes.
funding over the next 4 years from April 2011 Review which stated that funding to councils Size of opportunity Conrmation by the efficiency & Reform will be reduced by approximately 7% per Size of opportunity Of the 468 UK local authorities, less than 10% Group that all departments will have to use annum for the next 4 years With an estimated annual administration spend have entered into outsourcing in any significant approved framework contracts to procure across central government of 16.2bn in way to date, however, there is an increasing ow Growing opportunities to establish shared shared goods and services such as IT, 2008 2009 and circa 500,000 staff across of opportunities to create transformational service infrastructures capable of bringing property services and travel all departments, there are significant partnerships and large outsourcing agreements.
together public services in a more opportunities for outsourcing.
The Government Legislation and other policy initiatives likely to We are also seeking ways in which to expand co-ordinated approach has committed to reducing administration offer opportunities for greater private sector our current relationships to help our local Changing roles local authorities increasingly budgets by 5.9bn a year by 2014-2015 across involvement in public service delivery authority clients respond to increasing scal becoming commissioners of services rather the whole of Whitehall and Arms Length Bodies.
spanning welfare, higher and further pressures and demand for quality, exible than deliverers of services.
education, pensions and financial services.
Beyond outsourcing IT and facilities administration, criminal justice, the Green management, few central government Central government has indicated that greater Agenda and fraud prevention departments have to date outsourced wider responsibility for spending and service services such as customer, HR or financial Evidence from other sectors, including local procurement is to be transferred from central to administration services.
The Government is authorities, that BPO and new models of local government departments allowing them exploring how common goods and services, public service delivery can achieve more to play a greater role in shaping services and that are shared across departments, can be for less making public services more efficient and procured more efficiently and cost effectively.
This will give local authorities greater Access to skills and technology that can Many of our businesses, such as our business autonomy and freedom to manage their guarantee savings both upfront and for the travel operations, are able to use their budgets and explore new service delivery longer term purchasing expertise to assist in this objective.
models that can be tailored to their specic Indications that central government is needs.
exploring new delivery models which also offer greater transparency of expenditure.
