Business review Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth The Capita Group Plc 13 Progress in 2010 1.1 Our bid pipeline, prospects and Against a challenging background, the majority suspects lists are all at record Organic growth securing of our businesses delivered robust results in levels.
To support and convert major contracts and highly 2010.
Decisions on major contracts were delayed across both public and private sectors this wealth of opportunities, we recurring business due to the difficult economic climate and the have signicantly strengthened A large proportion of our organic growth comes changing political landscape.
There was a pause our major sales team.
This through securing: in central government contracts coming out to tender while the UK General Election and a high quality, recurring revenues from long enlarged team will continue to change in administration took place.
We also term contracts delivering multiple, integrated focus on our traditional markets saw a sharp reduction in discretionary spend administration and customer services.
These and reach out into new market across our existing contracts and pressures on contracts currently average 9 years in length public spending affected growth in some of our segments.
single service business that rolls over annually, transactional trading activities.
has a high repeat rate or is secured under Maggi Bell Business Development Director medium to long term contracts of 2 to 7 years In 2010, we had a higher than normal attrition rate of 6%.
This was due to a number of project discretionary spend whereby clients request completions and several contracts winding additional services and or change control down or being taken back in-house.
a further 2% of revenue reduction due to our The combination of long term contracts decision to dispose of a number of our and recurrent business ensures highly visible operations at the end of 2009. future revenues.
In 2010, we secured and extended 18 major contracts with a total value of 795m.
In the first 2 months of 2011, we were selected for 5 major contracts and extensions with a total value of 244m.
Find out how we designed and implemented a robust new service in less than 3 months.
