Business review Governance Accounts Maintaining performance across our divisions The Capita Group Plc 60 5.
Professional Services Housing management: We won further contracts 2010 performance 2011 priorities 2010 2009 to supply our housing management software, m m Local Government Strategic Partnerships: Continue to support our local government OPENHousing, and secured 5 Support contracts We have continued to deliver improved services, process partnerships with service and IT transformations, Turnover 358.6 358.7 providing personalised instant access to housing and and cost efficiencies, and ICT solutions across our major enhancing services and identifying opportunities for support services.
Underlying operating profit 79.7 69.4 local authority partnerships in Shefeld, Southampton, further budget savings Payment management: 5 new councils selected Harrow and Swindon.
Developments have included: Underlying operating margin 22.2% 19.3% Continue to support current client base for software our solutions.
Used by over 200 organisations, our achieving Customer Service Accreditation for the services in local government, education and housing managed service processed 20 million credit debit Capex 5.0 4.4 Shefeld City Council revenues and benets service and develop our position in the health market, card payments and improved awareness of benets eligibility providing leading payment management solutions Comprised our operations focused on Further and Higher Education: Strengthened establishing our new regional business centre in a Launch our new education service, edsight, to schools, supporting local authorities, education our market penetration working with around prime city centre site in Southampton local authorities and early years providers 170 FE colleges.
establishments and childrens services, our new robust IT platform in Harrow Council has Increase the reach of our SIMS and One products to through strategic transformation partnerships, Childrens Services: SIMS was selected by Norfolk enabled us to drive through improvements for both emerging sectors such as academies County Council for its primary and secondary schools outsourced administration services, strategic the Council and its citizens.
See case study on pages Upgrade clients to Swordfish 10 and explore opportunities and we are working with other primary schools to advice and interim support, ICT and software 30 and 31. become early adopters of our enhanced software suite.
for document solutions in insurance, HR and health solutions and support.
winning Best Outsourced Partnership at the South Reecting the growing number of partnerships, Continue expansion of our Communications offer and The local government, children's services and West Contact Centre Awards 2010 for our partnership we are working with the North Wales Consortium work with clients to deliver cost efficiencies through with Swindon Borough Council.
6 local authorities to provide One, our local education markets are constantly facing process automation authority solution.
Local Government Services: Performed well and change and there is increased pressure to join Focus both on external sales and opportunities to continued to support and help grow our client Financial Software: Release of Synaptic Comparator: up services and increase the effectiveness of deliver value to other Capita businesses and contracts.
We collected in excess of 2.3bn business a solution for financial advisers to compare financial administration while achieving efficiencies.
rates and administered council tax on behalf of 17 local product platforms, the first module in our new online We therefore continuously seek to deliver authorities.
suite of integrated services for advisers underpinned by innovative but practical service solutions that a new IT architecture Secured a 10 year contract with Charnwood BC and a leverage our expertise and scale to better 5 year contract with Cherwell BC to deliver revenues Total Document Solutions: Released new version Our revenues and benets partnership service our clients and add value.
Additionally, secured a 5 year of our electronic document management system, proves that it is possible to do things extension of our revenues contract with LB Brent.
Swordsh 10, offering enhanced functionality, a new at a lower cost while improving user interface and web services.
Over 3,500 business Strategic Children's Services: The DfES National users are now performing daily tasks on Dolphin, our Strategies programme comes to an end in March this performance, with in excess of business process platform.
We have formed a new service, edsight, to provide 1m worth of savings achieved so far.
vital support to schools, early years providers and local Communications: Continued investment in equipment The strength of our partnership with authorities as they seek to maintain and improve and industry specialists allowing us to launch products, standards in the new education landscape.
edsight such as OneM@il, which reduces the costs of printing Capita has undoubtedly contributed to draws on our extensive track record in supporting documents in an ofce environment.
Customer service levels quality teaching and learning combined with our local Debt management services: We are the largest have increased and this, together with service delivery expertise.
provider of corporate debt services to local government.
the cost savings achieved by sharing Software Services: Our acquisition of Ross & Roberts complements our operations.
Revenues and benets: Maintained our leading resources and software, has certainly position and secured new contracts with authorities Assurance and Testing: Our software testing business benefited our citizens.
including Blackpool & Fylde, City of London, has grown by an average of 42% over the last 5 years.
Greenwich, Rochdale and South Staffordshire.
A large part of this growth has been generated by the Stuart Dawson Revenues & Benets Manager, development of our dedicated offshore centre where WestWey Partnership, Dorset we are able to service UK clients as well as organisations Comprises Purbeck District Council, West Dorset District operating in India.
Council and Weymouth & Portland Borough Council
