Business review Governance Accounts Targeting growth markets The Capita Group Plc 28 7.
Financial services 5% of Group revenue Our key capabilities embrace the personal lines, Capita has built a strong presence in a Many financial services organisations are Drivers for outsourcing commercial insurance and Lloyds and the number of market segments.
In particular we looking at reducing their cost bases and creating Need to provide claims processing and London Market areas, together with capabilities provide fund administration to both open and more exible operating models to enhance comprehensive, quality customer service at in specialist insurance products working across closed end structures, trust services and loan their competitiveness.
We believe we are lower operational cost and embracing new claims, service sales and back office administration.
Our scale enables us to deliver positioned well to assist investment companies technology The scale of our support ranges from complete cost effective and exible administration and other organisations to meet these Higher frequency of severe weather events in end-to-end solutions for large insurers and solutions across different tax jurisdictions challenges.
UK prompting an increase in claims.
Need for brokers, to bespoke services focused on onshore, nearshore and offshore.
organisations to review their operating models Drivers for outsourcing specic needs.
to offset this with cost savings Size of opportunity Ability to reduce costs through shared Size of opportunity Insurers reviewing their operating We are the 2nd largest administrator of technology, administration processing, The UK insurance industry remains the largest arrangements and processes and exploring investment companies in the UK and the 6th customer service and compliance support in Europe and the 3rd largest globally, ways to reduce indemnity spend fastest growing fund administrator in Ireland, Need for leading edge systems to cope accounting for around 8% of worldwide where market opportunities are particularly The Lloyds of London Claims Transformation with increased competition and increasing premium income.
Over 75% of UK households strong.
With increasing pressure on both Programme may prompt adoption of new legislative and regulatory change purchase motor and home insurance products government and financial institutions to claims handling models Reduce risk of not keeping pace with and in the last 10 years claims paid have manage large and commercial loans as Importance of bringing new products regulatory change and reduce costs increased by some 44%.
efficiently as possible, our expertise and scale as to market faster associated with this Europe's largest, independent master servicer We are actively involved in working with our Blended onshore offshore nearshore delivery Need for financial organisations to offer will stand us in good stead to grow our business clients to improve their online capability, offers greater exibility and cost effectiveness greater exibility and enhance in this area further.
reducing the cost of telephony while delivering competitiveness Need to improve management of claims service improvements through the use of The duciary business has driven average costs, particularly by preventing fraud and Desire for organisations to divest of non-core creative voice solutions, resulting in reduced call annual compound growth of 40% since 2005 leakage.
activities in order to focus on core business waiting times and improved customer service.
and, despite the weaker market conditions in and sales generation.
Additionally, traditional client contact methods 2010, the business continued to drive organic are changing and new technology is enabling growth of circa 15%.
clients to interact with their customers across a In the UK, while financial markets are still whole range of new media.
We are able to assist recovering, open-ended funds assets under our clients with these projects and in addition management grew from 467bn in November support them with peak hour demand support, 2009 to 555bn in November 2010 an call overow and downtime fullment models.
In Ireland, despite the impact of the global downturn on the local economy, the funds market has proved remarkably resilient.
Total assets under administration at the end of September 2010 stood at 1,706bn which represents an increase of 353bn or 26% compared to September 2009.
