Business review Governance Accounts Targeting growth markets The Capita Group Plc 27 5.
Life and pensions 18% of Group revenue Our property and infrastructure consultancy, Capita continues to lead the UK outsourced life We estimate there are circa 500 million life and Drivers for outsourcing Capita Symonds, has a long track record of and pensions administration market and is also pensions policies in force in Europe excluding Opportunities to support the announced successfully delivering a wide variety of projects the leader globally.
Our group pensions business the UK with an addressable spend of 18bn per 8bn programme of investment in the in the transport sector.
It provides services such is the leader in the administration of UK public annum.
The drivers for outsourcing in UK rail network as highway and tunnel infrastructure design and sector pension schemes and ranks 4th in the Continental Europe are similar to those in the Highway maintenance contracts being refurbishment: road user pricing: intelligent administration of UK private sector pensions UK and considerable synergies are possible from re-formed within many local authorities and transport systems: rail engineering and project schemes.
replicating our service delivery model in Europe, opportunities to forge links with major management: and transport planning to clients particularly as costs of administration are some contractors for a series of these Size of opportunity across both the public and private sectors.
2 times higher than in the UK, providing us with Squeeze on public sector spending prompting Our scale, focus on customer service, continued an opportunity to signicantly cut client costs.
Size of opportunity local authorities to increase managed services investment in specialist technology and our Drivers for outsourcing The Government recently announced an 8bn in highway maintenance and outsource CCTV ability to offer a mixed onshore nearshore investment in the UK rail network our monitoring services offshore delivery model, makes us a compelling Clients wishing to duplicate their UK successful commissions as major supplier to choice as an outsourcing partner.
outsourcing arrangements across their wider Renewed opportunities to provide the Crossrail project and our support to the European and international activities multidisciplinary services to private sector We are responsible for administering Thameslink scheme, both in London, position clients as they rebuild their businesses in the approximately 23 million individual policies, Renewed focus by providers on the benets us well to seek opportunities to assist with this improving UK economy.
which represent around 22% of the total achieved by outsourcing, encouraging providers major infrastructure modernisation UK market, and we are the only major to examine their business models programme.
administrator of open life and pensions books Continued pressure to cut operating costs and We have formed strategic alliances with many in the UK.
increase effectiveness local authorities to help manage their transport We estimate there are circa 107 million life and Providers seeking assistance to respond to and requirements through a mixture of contracts, pensions policies in force in the UK of which share associated costs of increasingly complex joint ventures and secondment models.
We are around 68 million have not yet been legislation seeing a healthy ow of opportunities as local outsourced.
There are additionally 28 million Acknowledgement of the cost benets authorities respond to increasing scal members in group pension schemes and third offered by commonality across shared pressures.
party administration is actively embraced in this delivery platforms Although primarily focused on the UK, Capita market sector.
Challenging market conditions putting a Symonds is also acting as Technical Advisers on Our operations in India play a key role, offering premium on clients ability to introduce and major transport projects across Europe, as well high productivity levels and exemplary distribute new products faster as being involved in civil engineering projects in standards of administration and quality English India and various parts of Asia and Africa.
We Opportunity to benefit from blended language customer services.
We are exploring will continue to seek appropriate opportunities onshore nearshore offshore delivery of the opportunity to replicate our successful life in these regions in addition to those in our services.
and pensions model on behalf of our existing home market.
and new clients in Europe.
We are establishing a new business centre in Krakow, Poland that will be well positioned to help deliver such opportunities.
