Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 142 16 Related party transactions year period.
An award will not vest if the Capitas average share price at the date of Notes to the accounts There were no related party transactions that require disclosure in the year.
vesting is below the average share price at the date of grant.
This scheme is open to all senior employees and shares will vest according to performance criteria.
The number of 17 Pension costs shares which will vest is dependent upon the Company's EPS growth exceeding RPI The Company operates a defined contribution scheme.
growth by 4% and on banding within the scheme.
The pension charge for the defined contribution scheme for the year was 1.5m 2009: 1.2m.
Long Term Indexed Share Appreciation Scheme LTISAS The LTISAS was only open to the Executive Directors and the Divisional Executive 18 Share based payment Directors.
Under the scheme, participants were provided with 2 equal tranches of The Company operates several share based payment plans as follows: 600,000 options.
The criteria were the same for each of these grants and therefore both tranches had performance periods that ended on 31 December 2006.
The exercise Deferred Annual Bonus Plan price of the option was restated in line with the FTSE All Share Index from the date of This scheme is applicable to Executive Directors and Divisional Executive Directors.
The restated exercise prices were 3.48 for the 2002 Under this scheme awards are made annually consisting of Deferred Shares, which are award and 4.74 for the 2004 award.
This feature ensured that participants only gained linked to the payout under the Annual Bonus Scheme details of which are contained in if the share price out-performed the index.
Options became exercisable, over the the Directors remuneration report and Matching Shares.
The value of Deferred Shares performance period, subject to the growth in the Company's EPS exceeding certain is determined by the payout under the Annual Bonus Scheme: half of the annual bonus targets.
is paid in cash and the remainder is compulsorily deferred on a gross basis into Deferred As growth in the Companys EPS over the 3 year period to 31 December 2006 Shares.
The Deferred Shares are held for a period of 3 years from the date of award exceeded RPI growth by 17.6%, 100% of the options vested representing 1,200,000 during which they are not forfeitable, except in the case of dismissal for gross shares per participant and became exercisable on 25 November 2007. misconduct.
The last award under the LTISAS was made in November 2004 and vested in full A conditional award of Matching Shares is made at the same time as the award of on 31 December 2006 and no further awards will be made under this plan.
Participants will be eligible to receive up to 1.5 Matching Shares for every Deferred Share.
Matching Shares will vest after the 3 year holding period to the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme extent to which performance conditions have been met.
33.3% of the Matching Shares This scheme is open to senior employees other than Executive Directors and Divisional will vest if growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS is equal to growth in the Executive Directors.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the market price of the UK Retail Price Index RPI plus 6% per annum, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% shares on the date of grant.
Options granted under this scheme become exercisable if vesting if growth in the Companys EPS is equal to or greater than growth in the RPI the growth in the Companys EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by 8% over the 3 year plus 16% per annum.
The performance condition attached to the awards may be vesting period from the date of grant.
The contractual life of each option granted is 7 amended by the Group Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Group years.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Board, from time to time, subject to the new condition being no less demanding than the original condition.
Capita Sharesave Scheme The vesting conditions for matching awards made in 2010 will be such that 33.3% This is an employee Save As You Earn scheme open to all Capita employees.
Under this of the Matching Shares will vest if growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS scheme, employees are granted share options at a discount to the market price at the is equal to growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI plus 4% per annum, rising on a date of grant.
The discount is currently nil 2009: nil: 2008: nil: 2007: nil: 2006: nil: straight-line basis to 100% vesting if growth in the Companys EPS is equal to or greater 2005: 10% and 20% prior to 2005.
The options become exercisable for a 6 month than growth in the RPI plus 14% per annum.
period following completion of a 3 or 5 year savings period.
There are no performance The Committee has considered the targets that were set for previous awards made conditions attached to these options.
under this scheme and believe in the light of current market conditions and the further The Group expense recognised for share based payments in respect of employee challenges that this represents that the vesting conditions for matching awards made services received during the year to 31 December 2010 was 10.2m 2009: 9.8m, in 2011 will be such that 33.3% of the Matching Shares will vest if growth in the all of which arises from equity-settled share based payment transactions.
The total Companys earnings per share EPS is equal to growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI Company expense, after recharging subsidiary undertakings, charged to the profit and plus 4% per annum, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting if growth in the loss account in respect of FRS 20 Share based payment was 5.9m 2009: 4.0m.
Companys EPS is equal to or greater than growth in the RPI plus 12% per annum.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP The 2008 LTIP was approved and adopted at the AGM on 6 May 2008.
The vesting of awards will depend on share price growth and EPS growth targets measured over a 3
