Business review Governance Accounts Maintaining performance across our divisions The Capita Group Plc 57 2.
Integrated Services Resourcing and development: Against a challenging Integrated services 2010 performance 2011 priorities background of reduced recruitment across the public excluding HR solutions and property consultancy Criminal Records Bureau: We have continued to To maintain and exceed current levels of service sector, we have secured key new contract wins for both maintain our previous good levels of service across our major contracts recruitment and training including a 3 year managed 2010 2009 performance throughout the year and responded well service for Sony UK, a 5 year contract renewal to To meet the objectives of the CRB and the Home m m to the changing requirements of both the CRB and the Ofce following the Ministerial Review provide 1,600 contractors into the nuclear market and Turnover 260.6 340.0 Home Ofce.
In a joint submission with CRB, Capita a 12 month extension of the CIPHER contract, which To work with Government departments to respond to received an award for the Best Outsourced Partnership is a framework agreement set up with DWP to supply Underlying operating profit 48.2 55.0 the Comprehensive Spending Review by helping them at the North West Contact Centre Awards.
interim workers to central government.
Recruitment to provide quality services at reduced costs Underlying operating margin 18.5% 16.2% TV Licensing: We have comfortably met service levels activity to supply the Ofce for National Statistics, with Continue to meet recruitment targets for the 2011 for 33 consecutive months, achieving all our KPIs.
over 35,000 staff for the 2011 Census, is in full ow and Capex 3.4 6.8 Census Despite the current economic climate we have helped the marketing to support this drive has delivered over Continue to grow our RPO, managed resourcing to keep licence fee evasion low and increased internet 3,000 leads to the recruitment website, complemented HR solutions solutions and outsourced learning and development sales to 2.1 million licences.
by comprehensive use of regional press, local radio and offer to meet market growth trends social media.
BBC Audience Services: We completed the transition 2010 2009 Continue to penetrate the local government sector m m and transformation programme and moved to one site HR Solutions: We continue to play a key role delivering offering our portfolio of HR services and helping in Belfast, a satellite ofce in Glasgow and some HR and payroll services across the public and private Turnover 261.2 280.6 authorities to respond to scal pressures homeworking.
With 11 dedicated service centres we are the Underlying operating profit 28.8 26.2 largest UK HR services BPO provider.
Across Capita Symonds, continue to build major Central Government Services: Our contract to programme management capability through operate the Gas Safe Register completed its first full Capita Symonds: We have performed well in Underlying operating margin 11.0% 9.3% acquisition and recruitment.
Grow our niche capability year of operation and in April we commenced a continuing difficult market conditions, moving from Capex 1.4 1.4 in target sectors such as renewable energy, waste successful renewal process with all registered gas 8th to 3rd place in the industry league tables for UK management and transport technology.
For the Learner Support Programme we consultants, while helping our clients to win or be highly Property consultancy Capita Symonds processed over 400,000 applications promptly and commended in over 20 industry awards nationwide.
made weekly payments to learners in excess of 500m In terms of major projects, a multidisciplinary Capita 2010 2009 per annum.
Constructionline, our contract to provide a Symonds team is designing 1 of the 4 portals on the 2010 has been another positive year m m register of pre-accredited construction companies for London Crossrail project.
Building on what public sector purchasers, has increased its user base and Turnover 309.0 258.1 We also made 2 acquisitions during the year registered rms despite the challenges currently faced is now a long-standing partnership, Underlying operating profit 25.6 23.1 Inventures and NB Real Estate which allow us to by the construction sector.
The website has also been together we have continued to provide further increase the scope of our full service proposition enhanced to include a noticeboard which displays Underlying operating margin 8.3% 9.0% across the public and private sectors.
We have made an effective and efficient service for contract opportunities by region.
8 acquisitions in the last 3 years and all these operations Capex 1.1 2.1 Home Access Grant Administration: This contract to customers applying for CRB checks.
have now been fully integrated into the business and administer and market the grant on behalf of Becta rebranded as Capita Symonds.
Capita continues to assist us in meeting Comprised all our major central government was successfully delivered with over 258,000 eligible Although primarily focused on the UK and Ireland, the challenges in our aim to help families receiving the grant and gaining access to contracts, our property consultancy, contact we are also exploring international projects where the internet.
The scheme was launched within just protect children and vulnerable adults.
centres and our portfolio of HR services: our we can work with partners to deploy our high value 3 months and targeted hard to reach families across resourcing businesses, integrated HR solutions, consultancy services.
In October 2010, we formed a England.
See case study on pages 52 and 53.
Steve Long CEO, Criminal Records Bureau HR and payroll administration, learning and partnership with Ghassan Al-Nemer Holding Group to deliver project management and design services in the development and outplacement services.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia where current infrastructure and public sector building programmes are valued The businesses within this division faced at some USD 35bn.
We also continue to pursue challenging market environments in 2010, opportunities and expand our operations in Abu Dhabi, however their focus on operating as efficiently North Africa and India.
as possible enabled them to perform steadily.
