Business review Governance Accounts Targeting growth markets The Capita Group Plc 26 3.
Health 4% of Group revenue Our continued commitment to helping schools Our strong growth has continued in this sector Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing and local authorities make informed decisions, achieved through a combination of contract efficiency agenda driving local authorities and The requirement for NHS organisations to has enabled us to maintain a leading position wins and acquisitions.
We now work with over education establishments to streamline and nd 15bn to 20bn of savings in the next in this market.
Through expert resources and 70% of NHS organisations, 148 of the 168 improve their business processes 3 to 4 years support we provide specialist software and acute trusts in England and have clients in every Expansion of the Academies programme The requirement to improve the patient information management systems, ICT and health economy in the UK and Ireland.
providing greater outsourcing opportunities experience by introducing a customer service property consultancy.
in areas such as HR, finance and ICT culture Size of opportunity Size of opportunity Requirement to respond quickly and We deliver outsourced IT and back ofce Willingness by the Government to enhance As dynamics change in the education market, adequately to changing legislation and services for key Department of Health contracts the role of the private sector in supporting characterised by a need to reduce budgets and Government initiatives and provide specialist advice and analytical NHS commissioners and health providers develop new ways of working, we constantly support to NHS organisations and Pressures on local authorities to make The introduction of GP commissioning look at how we can deliver more innovative pharmaceutical companies to improve significant cost savings prompting many of consortia and the opportunity to provide solutions to better support our clients with efficiency, governance and patient and staff them to consider a partnership approach to business support to these organisations administration activities and evidence-based experience.
working The requirement to drive down sickness decision making.
In 2010 health expenditure in England alone Need to track and support shared learning absence and improve staff wellbeing in the The development of our businesses combined was 118bn, of which addressable spend on the across multiple education establishments workplace with our acquisitions in the ICT space, such as type of outsourced services that we can deliver Need to make full use of technology to The pledge from Government to undertake the acquisition of Ramesys, allow us to offer is estimated to be between 13bn and 15bn.
support informed decision making to deliver a commercial review of Arms Length Bodies a wider range of services, software and This includes NHS and Department of Health effective learning and school improvement with a view to introducing private sector end-to-end IT outsourcing solutions to schools spend and opportunities to assist Arms Length providers to support them.
significant potential to increase our presence and colleges and enter into exclusive framework Bodies in this area, as they are streamlined from in the international and independent school agreements.
We see many opportunities to 18 organisations to 6 by 2012. markets.
develop our ICT offer in this sector.
According to CIPD, workers took on average 7.5 In preparation for the end of the National days off sick in 2010 costing employers more Strategies programme in March 2011, we have than 16bn.
The cost of absence through created a new education service that will sickness in the public sector is 889 per provide vital support to schools, early years employee compared to 400 per employee providers and local authorities as they seek to in the private sector.
Organisations are maintain and improve standards in the new increasingly looking to address this by making education landscape.
With our established changes in order to improve their employees knowledge and expertise, Capita is in a strong health and wellbeing, reduce work-related position to grow in this market.
Due to our acquisition of Premier Medical Group we are well placed to assist with this.
