Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 136 1 Accounting policies continued At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, j Derivative financial instruments representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and reference to market rates for similar instruments.
loss account, with a corresponding entry in equity.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value Subsidiary undertakings of the Company reimburse the Company through the hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset intercompany account for charges attributable to their employees participating in the or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows Companys share schemes.
that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or 2 Deferred taxation liability or a forecast transaction.
2010 2009 In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair m m value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for The deferred taxation included in the balance sheet is as hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair follows: value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the Accelerated capital allowances 1.6 2.0 hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount Share based payments 4.4 3.9 of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the Cash flow hedges 3.1 3.0 hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is Callable swaps 10.1 8.7 recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts taken to equity are Provisions 1.3 0.1 transferred to the profit and loss account when the hedged transaction affects the Included in debtors note 8 11.1 7.7 profit and loss account, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost 3 Profit attributable to members of the parent undertaking of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are The profit after taxation dealt with in the accounts of the parent undertaking was transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, 4 Dividends amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account.
2010 2009 If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without m m replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously Declared and paid during the year recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment Ordinary shares equity : occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising Final for 2009 paid: 11.2p per share 2008: 9.6p per share 69.1 58.8 from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
Interim for 2010 paid: 6.6p per share 2009: 5.6p per share 40.0 34.4 109.1 93.2 k Share based payments Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a The Company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
liability at 31 December The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense Ordinary shares equity : over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees Final for 2010: 13.4p per share 2009: 11.2p per share 81.2 69.1 become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
