Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 74 Business Review and principal activities Social and environmental responsibility Other statutory and Details of how the Group manages its social and environmental Business Review responsibilities can be found on pages 42 to 51 and at regulatory information The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the www.
business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2010 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a Group activities description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group The Group is the leading UK provider of business process outsourcing known as a Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Review is to solutions and professional support services to organisations across the enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed their public and private sectors.
The Groups 9 chosen markets are: in the public duty under Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the sector central government, local government, education, health and success of the Company.
The information that fulls the requirements transport, and in the private sector life and pensions, insurance, financial of the Business Review can be found in pages 1 to 60. services and other corporates.
Events after the Balance Sheet date On behalf of its clients, the Group aims to improve service quality, reduce costs of service delivery and enables clients to transform the way that On 10 January 2011 the Company announced the appointments to the they deliver services to their customers.
The services that the Group Group Board of Vic Gysin and Andy Parker as Joint Chief Operating provides are essential to the smooth running and success of its clients` Ofcers and the stepping down from the Board of Simon Pilling.
The Group designs, successfully implements and manages Appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors tailored service solutions, ranging across administration, information technology, financial, human resources, property and customer service Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the functions.
The Group maintains leading positions in the majority of its Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of the markets due to its scale and ability to draw on this wide base of Companies Act 2006. professional services, detailed market knowledge and extensive business All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting process transformation and change management skills.
after their appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than During the period under review, the Group's principal activities were 3 years in accordance with the combined code and the Companys Articles managed through 5 operating divisions comprising: Insurance & Investor of Association.
Services: ICT, Health & Business Services: Life & Pensions Services: No person, other than a Director retiring at the meeting, shall be Professional Services and Integrated Services.
Group support services appointed or re-appointed a Director of the Company at any General report direct to Group Executive Directors.
Meeting unless he she is recommended by the Directors.
A review of the development of the Group and its business activities No person, other than a Director retiring at a general meeting as set out during the year is contained in the Business Review on pages 1 to 60. above, shall be appointed or re-appointed unless between 7 and 35 days Our divisional operations and financial performance are detailed on notice, executed by a member qualied to vote on the appointment or pages 54 to 60. re-appointment, has been given to the Company of the intention to propose that person for appointment or re-appointment, together with In January 2011, the Board decided to reorganise the Group's divisions to notice executed by that person of his her willingness to be appointed reect the growth of the Group and provider greater transparency.
January 2011, the Group's principal activities are managed through 9 operating divisions.
Additionally a Divisional Board was created with All Directors will retire and will offer themselves for re-election at the representation for each of the head of Group acquisitions, head of strategic Annual General Meeting in May, in accordance with the UK Corporate sales development and 2 Divisional Finance Directors, shown on page 33.
