Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 96 1 Corporate information All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Notes to the 31 December 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Directors on 23 February 2011.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the consolidated The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review on pages 54 to 60. reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies even if that results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Underlying profit for the year ended 31 December 2010 The Group separately presents amortisation, the movement in the mark to market d Changes in accounting policies valuation of certain financial instruments and specific non-recurring items in the The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year income statement which, in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately except as follows: by virtue of their size and incidence in order for users of the financial statements to The Group has adopted the following new amendments to IFRS and IFRIC obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying interpretations during the year.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share based Payment Arrangements accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at Items Amendment the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the Improvements to IFRSs 2009 reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The principal effects of these changes are as follows: The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next Financial Statements Amended The revised business combinations standard financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement introduces significant changes in the accounting for business combinations.
Changes of defined benefit obligations and provisions see note 25.
The measurement of affect the valuation of non-controlling interests, the accounting for transaction costs, intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of contingent consideration and of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines business combinations achieved in stages.
These changes will impact the amount of whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and thus requires an estimation of the goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs and value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate IAS 27 Amended requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary see note 16.
Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires estimation of future without loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on as owners.
Therefore such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will they assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 32. give rise to a gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by a subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
The a Statement of compliance changes by IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 Amended affect future acquisitions or loss of The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries control of subsidiaries and transactions with non-controlling interests after 1 January the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 2010.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with This change in accounting policy was applied prospectively and had no material the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. impact on earnings per share.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its IFRS 2 Share based Payment Group Cash-settled Share based Payment Transactions individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 134 to 143.
The standard has been amended to clarify the accounting for group cash-settled share b Basis of preparation based payment transactions.
This amendment also supersedes IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain The adoption of this amendment by the Group as of 1 January 2010 did not have any financial instruments and the pension assets have been measured at fair value.
The impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The Amendment This amendment addresses the designation of a one-sided risk in a consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are hedged item and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk in particular situations.
rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
The adoption of this amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
