Business review Governance Accounts Maintaining performance across our divisions The Capita Group Plc 58 3.
Insurance & Investor Services Shareholder services: In 2010 we handled in excess of Insurance Services 2010 performance 2011 priorities 375 corporate actions, with capital raising exercises by Capita Insurance Distribution: In the year we acquired Complete Capita Insurance Distribution's 2010 2009 30 clients accounting for over 5bn, including the Sureterm Direct, allowing us to further align our classic transformation programme m m successful 3.2bn rights issue for 1.1 million car insurance businesses.
We were awarded contracts shareholders of National Grid.
Continue to deliver robust compliance and risk Turnover 184.9 246.8 with Virgin Money, to deliver the administration of all mitigation to respond to FSA regulations We secured 15 new contracts from other suppliers Virgin Moneys home and motor insurance policies, Underlying operating profit 23.3 28.4 Continue to identify suitable bolt-on acquisitions to and our registrars business won over 50% of UK IPO and with AXA Sainsburys Pet Insurance to provide enhance our position in the insurance outsourcing otations including being appointed registrar to the Underlying operating margin 12.6% 11.5% sales and customer service.
We also maintained our market Ocado Group Plc.
5th place ranking in the Insurance Age 2010 poll of Capex 1.7 2.4 Identify cross-selling opportunities across the Group Top 50 Brokers ranked by brokerage income.
Capita Financial Group: The business now has assets such as those arising across our health operations under management of 34.8bn and has grown its Marsh: During the second half of the year, Capita Investor Services business in its core locations in the UK and Ireland.
Refocus business development opportunities in Capita expanded its operational support to the leading It has also substantially completed the process of Financial Group to secure profitable business where 2010 2009 insurance broker and risk adviser.
In a supplementary migrating its funds under administration and m m the risk reward balance is appropriate agreement Marsh transferred to Capita the back ofce management to its market leading Fund Accounting operations of their recent acquisition of the former Mitigate effect of declining shareholder numbers Turnover 181.2 174.5 platform.
We signed a number of new or renewed HSBC insurance Brokers Ltd. We created a further through product diversication and global fee contracts including with Royal London, JM Finn and Underlying operating profit 42.2 35.1 90 jobs in our Norwich operations and successfully structures.
An update regarding the Arch cru funds completed the integration by December 2010.
Underlying operating margin 23.3% 20.1% can be found on page 117.
National Dental Plan: Our acquisition of NDP, one of Trust Services: We have continued to acquire niche Capex 10.2 12.8 the largest providers of corporate dental plans in the businesses that increase our existing nearshore UK, extends our range of tailored insurance services to capabilities and expertise.
Capita's asset services both public and private sectors and is already delivering Comprised our businesses delivering financial business is the highest rated service provider per Fitch Sainsburys Pet Insurance moved to to plan.
services propositions to the corporate and and Standard and Poors ratings, and Europe's largest Capita in March sales and August consumer markets.
Key services are share independent third party commercial mortgage servicer.
We commenced our contract as master server to the service & claims and since then registration, fund administration and insurance 80bn Irish Government's National Asset Management policy and claims administration, financial both sales and customer service Agency real estate portfolio and have successfully advisory and treasury services, insurance performance have exceeded loaded 73bn of assets to our loan portal.
services for motor standard and niche, expectations.
Sector Treasury Services: An independent provider household and pet insurance products, as well of capital nancing, treasury and strategic advisory Not only has the pet product been as trust administration and duciary services services to the public sector.
In October 2010 we took across a range of tax jurisdictions.
ying off the shelves in terms of sales, over the treasury consultancy business from ICAP creating an enhanced resource to continue to provide the quality of service has been excellent.
The majority of these businesses continued to market-leading services to the combined client base.
Since launch, both areas have perform strongly.
In our insurance business we consistently delivered against the consolidated some of our operations to share Sainsburys standards, consistently expertise and infrastructure.
exceeding the Sainsburys quality and brand standards for telephone calls and written correspondence.
Liz Aziz Service Manager, Insurances, Sainsburys Bank
