Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 79 Chair's report years, the 2011 targets will be based on profits Before Tax, and bonuses Remuneration report will vest on a sliding scale between a minimum acceptable level of performance and a stretching target.
It is my pleasure to report on the activities of the Remuneration Increase the maximum match for future awards under the Deferred Committee for the period to 31 December 2010.
Annual Bonus Plan from 1.5 x to 2 x matching shares for each deferred This report sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration details of share subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 AGM.
The matching the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The report shares will be subject to EPS growth targets of between RPI 4% per has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large and annum and RPI 12% per annum over a 3 year performance period.
The Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations new targets are considered stretching given the squeeze on public sector 2008 and also meets the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK nances, prevailing economic conditions, and growth is being measured Listing Authority.
The long term strategy of Capita is to attract and retain the best staff to The same EPS growth targets that are used for the DAB will be also be full the overall business plan of the Group and ensuring that this aligns used for the 2011 awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
In with our shareholders, external stakeholders, and our risk policies and addition, there is also a secondary measure, whereby awards will only systems.
Our remuneration strategy and policy for Executive Directors is vest if Capitas share price has also increased over the performance to set base salary at lower quartile level and reward upper quartile period.
The Remuneration Committee did consider the use of additional performance with upper quartile rewards.
or alternative performance measures to EPS.
However, the Committee Given our responsibility to consider the employees when setting out concluded that this would only add complexity to the current package, Executive Directors' salaries and that our strategy is to pay lower quartile and that other objectives would form part of the annual review of the salary with upper quartile performance related plans, during the year a Director.
EPS is also widely understood within the organisation, is within benchmarking exercise was undertaken to review this position.
While our managements control, and has been used effectively in long term remuneration policy has served the Company well to date, the incentives at Capita for a number of years.
Remuneration Committee cannot ignore the advances in FTSE executive The Remuneration Committee believes these changes will help bridge the pay practices especially when Capita has delivered some of the best competitive pay gap and retain Executives in a way that is aligned with shareholder returns of any FTSE 100 company over the last 10 years.
shareholders interests while being sensitive to the current economic Therefore, during the year, the Remuneration Committee conducted a environment.
benchmarking review of Executive total remuneration.
The review concluded that the remuneration of Capita Executives has fallen below the Members of the Committee lower quartile compared to FTSE 31-100 companies.
Therefore, having The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee consulted in advance with a number of our large shareholders, the during 2010: Remuneration Committee is intending to make the following changes to January May 2010 June July 2010 July December 2010 the remuneration package for 2011: Martina King C Martina King C Martina King C Increase the salaries for the CEO, Group Finance Director, and Business Martin Bolland Nigel Wilson Nigel Wilson Development Director by 5,000 each for 2011, which is an increase of Bill Grimsey Bill Grimsey Paul Bowtell 1.3% to 2.2%.
The Remuneration Committee considered higher salary increases over time.
However, the management team is keen to lead by C Chair example and demonstrate salary restraint throughout the organisation.
The Committee met 3 times during 2010 and the attendance of the In any event, it would require salary increases of c. 10% to 20% per Committee is shown in the attendance table on page 71. annum for the next 3 years to reach a lower quartile salary position, which the Committee considers inappropriate in the current economic environment Increase the maximum bonus opportunity from 140% of salary to 170% of salary for the financial year ending December 2011 and then to 200% of salary for the financial year ending December 2012.
