Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 135 1 Accounting policies e Leasing commitments a Basis of preparation Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and Notes to the The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
The accounts comply with the following new Financial The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated Reporting Standards issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board ASB.
accounts to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases Amendments to FRS 20: Share based payment: Group Cash-settled Share based for the year ended 31 December 2010 are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Payment Transactions The amendments expand the definition of a share based payment and are effective for f Deferred taxation annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
FRS 20 IFRS 2 has been amended Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated to clarify the accounting for group cash-settled share based payment transactions but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred where a subsidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but the at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to parent or another entity in the group pays for those goods or services.
The receive more, taxation, with the following exceptions: amendments clarify that the scope of FRS 20 includes such transactions.
The adoption provision is made for taxation on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair of this amendment has had no impact on the financial statements of the Company.
value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards 2009 been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance In April 2009 the International Accounting Standards Board issued its second omnibus sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the clarifying wording.
These amendments were adopted by the ASB and issued in balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over December 2009.
The adoption of these amendments, which are effective from 1 into replacement assets and charged to taxation only where the replacement assets January 2010, did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the are sold Company.
provision is made for deferred taxation that would arise on remittance of the A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance undertaking only has not been presented as provided by Section 408 of the Companies sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable Act 2006. deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider b Tangible fixed assets that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Deferred taxation is measured on an undiscounted basis at the taxation rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on taxation Computer equipment 3 to 10 years rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Furniture, fixtures and equipment 4 to 5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease g Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the c Investments transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or if appropriate realisable value.
at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account The carrying values of fixed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values may not be recoverable.
they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying d Pension schemes amount of the related investments.
The Company maintains a number of contracted-out defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they h National Insurance on share option gains are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to National Insurance on outstanding share options at the year end has been grossed up separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately and shown as a provision and a receivable on the balance sheet.
The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of the Company, which pays the i Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year end have been accrued in A separate note dealing with the disclosures of FRS 29 has not been presented as the accounts of that company.
provided by paragraph 2D b of FRS 29.
The consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures of IFRS 7 for the Group.
