RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 EXPLANATORY NOTES 100 RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the accounts, the Directors report and the auditors report on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require that the Directors Remuneration Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 38 to 44 of the Annual Report and p Accounts.
RESOLUTIONS 3 TO 6 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Lord Douro is standing for election as a non-executive Director in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
All Directors have to stand for re-election at least once every 3 years, but are eligible for re-election.
The Board has a policy that any non-executive Director who has served as such for nine or more years and who is not retiring by rotation, shall nonetheless stand for re-election at each annual general meeting.
Charles Bailey has served as a non-executive Director for more than nine years, but has indicated that he will not stand for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
Biographical information on all the directors, including those standing for election or re-election, is shown on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 7 REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS Company law requires all companies, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the Audit Committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 8 REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS This resolution authorises the Directors to fix the remuneration of  LLP as the Companys auditors and has been split from the resolution for the reappointment of auditors in accordance with best practice guidelines.
RESOLUTION 9 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc.
The authority in paragraph i of Resolution 9 will allow the directors to allot new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up to a nominal value of 51,288,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 June 2010.
The authority in paragraph ii in Resolution 9 will allow the directors to allot new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares only in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of 51,288,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, as at 7 June 2010.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares.
The directors consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2011 or on 30 September 2011.
101 RESOLUTION 10 REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Resolution 10 will increase the annual limit for aggregate fees payable to the Companys non-executive directors from 300,000 to 400,000.
This limit was last reviewed in 2005 when it was raised from 200,000 to 300,000.
Although current fee levels fall within the existing limit, the Company is proposing to increase the aggregate limit to 400,000 per annum.
The total directors fees payable vary with the number of non-executive directors and the amount of the directors fees.
The Company wishes to take this opportunity to create additional flexibility in respect of payment of non-executive directors fees and is therefore seeking the higher limit, taking into account comparable fees at other UK public listed companies.
RESOLUTION 11 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the pre-emption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Paragraph a of Resolution 11 is to authorise the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph i of Resolution 9, or sell treasury shares, for cash I in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or II otherwise up to a nominal value of 7,693,303, equivalent to five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 June 2010, in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Paragraph b of Resolution 11 authorises the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given in Resolution 9, or sell treasury shares, for cash only in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holding.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2011, or on 30 September 2011 if earlier.
The Directors consider the authority in Resolution 11 to be appropriate in order to allow the company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the strict requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
This new power remains in line with the guidelines of the Pre-emption Group, which is supported by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines in respect of allotment of shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling 3-year period.
RESOLUTION 12 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,064,523 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than a 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase, or b the highest current bid for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of the purchase and c the price of the last independent trade in the ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of purchase.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Company can hold the shares which have been repurchased itself as Treasury Shares and either resell them for cash or cancel them, either immediately, or at a point in the future.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors currently have no intention of exercising the authority conferred in this resolution and will only purchase shares after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and whether the effect will be to increase net asset value per share, and if it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 EXPLANATORY NOTES 102 RESOLUTION 13 ADOPTION OF NEW ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is proposed in this resolution to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or, the Shareholders Rights Regulations, or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies set out in The Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 have not been noted below.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted on page 98 of this document.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
It is proposed that the Current Articles be amended to reflect these changes.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
It is proposed that the Current Articles be changed to reflect this requirement.
Voting record date Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations the Company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are not working days.
It is proposed that the Current Articles be amended to reflect this requirement.
Adjournment This proposed change will update the chairmans power to adjourn general meetings to bring the New Articles in line with common law, market practice and the Model Articles.
This proposed change will in particular confirm the power of the chairman to adjourn the meeting in order to restore order or protect the safety of the attendees.
Satellite Meetings Amendments made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
This proposed amendment will enable the Company to make arrangements that will be more convenient to shareholders and will bring the New Articles in line with market practice.
Security and orderly conduct This proposed change will confirm that the Directors may put in place security procedures at general meetings, including requiring members to submit to bag searches.
This will bring the New Articles in line with market practice.
Remuneration for non-executive directors ABI guidelines stipulate that a companys articles of association must provide for an annual cap on aggregate fees payable to the companys non-executive directors.
The New Articles provide for a cap of 400,000.
This cap will have been increased from 300,000 to 400,000.
The total directors fees payable vary with the number of non-executive directors and the amount of the directors base fee.
RESOLUTION 14: NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 14 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
