Additional information continued Regulatory developments and reviews UK regulated firms within the Group are members of the Financial The Group works with domestic and international trade associations and Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, which provides compensation proactively engages with regulators and other authorities such as the to eligible customers of authorised financial services firms that are unable Basel Committee, the EU Commission, Governments and regulators, in to meet their obligations.
The FSCS is a contributor to depositor order to understand the implications of proposed regulatory change and confidence and financial stability and the Group is supporting the FSCS to contribute to the development of regulatory policy.
in increasing awareness amongst UK consumers.
In addition, during 2010 RBS developed and implemented a new single customer view The Group and its subsidiaries have co-operated fully with various systems capability, which provides tailored information to the FSCS in regulatory reviews and developments in the UK and internationally, order to facilitate fast payment of compensation to depositors within including enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible breaches of seven days.
The FSA, in their 2010 11 Business Plan, emphasised that they would be United Kingdom implementing a new intensive supervision strategy in relation to 'Treating In the UK, the Group has actively engaged with a large number of Customers Fairly' TCF.
The Group has implemented TCF governance legislative and regulatory consultations.
Reflecting global developments, arrangements for all relevant businesses, and continues to undertake a financial stability - notably bank prudential requirements and the new process of continuous improvement of management information to regulatory framework - remains a key focus for the UK regulatory demonstrate its continued commitment to treating customers fairly authorities.
The Group has continued to participate fully in the analysis of the cause The Group also continues to co-operate with the Information of the financial crisis and the development of potential policy and reform.
Commissioners Office, the UKs independent public body set up to A wide range of ideas and proposals, aimed at strengthening the uphold information rights in the public interest, promoting openness by resilience of the banking system and addressing perceived shortcomings public bodies and data privacy for individuals.
The Group continues to in existing regulation, have been advanced and continue to be developed.
improve its processes in line with changing guidelines in order to meet With respect to prudential requirements, the Group provided detailed information security requirements.
feedback on the FSA's consultations on Strengthening Capital Standards and its Discussion Paper on reviewing trading activities, to name but two.
European Union global developments Other consultations included HM Treasurys consultations on the The Group follows closely the work and recommendations of the G20, structure of financial regulation and on the new bank levies.
as well as international standard setters such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
Of particular note were the discussions that took The Group has actively engaged with, and contributed to, a number of place throughout 2010 regarding proposals from the Basel Committee on inquiries regarding the future of banking.
These included the Independent Banking Supervision for an enhanced capital and liquidity framework.
The Banking Commission, the OFTs retail banking review and various Group was closely involved in all aspects of the proposals on capital and Treasury Select Committee inquiries.
It has contributed to debates on liquidity, as well as on other related policy areas, such as countercyclical resolution frameworks, including possible mechanisms such as capital buffers and contingent capital, being developed separately.
"contingent capital and bail-in arrangements, and is participating in the FSA's pilot for the development of Recovery and Resolution Plans Also notable in 2010 was significant work by the European Commission ""Living Wills""."
It will be developing suitable Living Wills in line with and the Committee of European Securities Regulators to review the forthcoming regulatory requirements.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive in areas such as transparency, investor protection and a widening of the scope of the Directive.
The Group has continued to play an active role in the development of Additionally, proposals to revise legislation on market infrastructure, to requirements impacting products and processes.
Examples include the encourage central clearing of derivative instruments, were put forward by FSAs review of mortgages Mortgage Market Review and of investment the Commission.
The Group provided input in all these areas.
With regard to payment cards, the Group worked closely with the Government the Department of Business Lastly, the EU has also overhauled its supervisory framework, creating a Innovation and Skills and the industry to develop and implement system of EU Supervisory Authorities and the European Systemic Risk appropriate measures to improve product features and transparency.
Powers of the authorities will include the supervision of national With regard to the OFTs review of Cash ISAs, the Group worked closely regulators, but also potentially direct supervision of selected financial with the industry to agree a series of voluntary improvements to the institutions should it be required in specific circumstances.
In 2010, the Consumer Credit Directive was transposed into national law and introduced standardised disclosure requirements for all lenders of unsecured consumer credit.
It is aimed at improving cross border lending and promoting responsible lending and borrowing.
