Foreign currencies protection is provided on an even basis throughout the term of the policy.
The Group's consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling Consequently, written premiums are recognised on a straight-line basis which is the functional currency of the company.
over the period of the policy.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium tax.
Unearned premiums represent the proportion of the net Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the premiums that relate to periods of insurance after the balance sheet date foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary and are calculated over the period of exposure under the policy, on a assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into daily basis, 24th's basis or allowing for the estimated incidence of sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
exposure under policies which are longer than twelve months.
Provision is made where necessary for the estimated amount of claims over and Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are reported in above unearned premiums including that in respect of future written income from trading activities except for differences arising on cash flow business on discontinued lines under the run-off of delegated hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The provision is designed to meet monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair future claims and related expenses and is calculated across related value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the classes of business on the basis of a separate carry forward of deferred dates the values were determined.
Translation differences arising on nonacquisition expenses after making allowance for investment income.
monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in profit or loss except for differences arising on available-for-sale non-monetary financial Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business for all assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the available-forclasses are expensed over the period during which the premiums are sale reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item in a fair value earned.
The principal acquisition costs so deferred are commissions hedge.
payable, and costs associated with the telesales and underwriting staff.
Claims and the related reinsurance are recognised in the accounting The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the cost of settling value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling at outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date, and claims and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average handling expenses.
Provisions are only discounted where claims, exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange principally motor, either have been or are expected to be settled by rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Related reinsurance receivables are recognised on differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are the same basis and at the same time.
recognised directly in equity and included in profit or loss on its disposal.
Leases The Group's long-term assurance contracts include whole-life term Contracts to lease assets are classified as finance leases if they transfer assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole-life, pension and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the annuity contracts that are expected to remain in force for an extended customer.
Other contracts to lease assets are classified as operating period of time.
Long-term assurance contracts under which the Group leases.
does not accept significant insurance risk are classified as financial instruments.
Finance lease receivables are stated in the balance sheet at the amount of the net investment in the lease being the minimum lease payments The Group recognises the value of in-force long-term assurance and any unguaranteed residual value discounted at the interest rate contracts as an asset.
Cash flows associated with in-force contracts and implicit in the lease.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting related assets, including reinsurance cash flows, are projected, using periods so as to give a constant periodic rate of return before tax on the appropriate assumptions as to future mortality, persistency and levels of net investment.
Unguaranteed residual values are subject to regular expenses and excluding the value of future investment margins, to review to identify potential impairment.
If there has been a reduction in estimate future surpluses attributable to the Group.
These surpluses, the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the income allocation is discounted at a risk-adjusted rate, are recognised as a separate asset.
revised and any reduction in respect of amounts accrued is recognised Changes in the value of this asset are included in profit or loss.
Premiums on long-term insurance contracts are recognised as income Rental income from operating leases is credited to the income statement when receivable.
Claims on long-term insurance contracts reflect the cost on a receivable basis over the term of the lease.
Operating lease assets of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling costs.
are included within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over Claims are recognised when the Group becomes aware of the claim.
their useful lives see Accounting policy 7.
Insurance The Group has reinsurance treaties that transfer significant insurance risk.
General insurance Liabilities for reinsured contracts are calculated gross of reinsurance and General insurance comprises short-duration contracts.
Due to the nature a separate reinsurance asset recorded.
of the products sold - predominantly property, and motor - the insurance 278 RBS Group 2010
