Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Payment services - this comprises income received for payment services A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale if the including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing House Automated Group will recover the carrying amount principally through a sale Payments the UK electronic settlement system and BACS payments transaction rather than through continuing use.
A non-current asset or the automated clearing house that processes direct debits and direct disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its credits.
These are generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
If the asset or disposal income is earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Charges for group is acquired as part of a business combination it is initially payment services are usually debited to the customer's account monthly measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities of disposal or quarterly in arrears.
Income is accrued at period end for services groups classified as held for sale and non-current assets classified as provided but not yet charged.
held for sale are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Card related services - fees from credit card business include: The results of discontinued operations are shown as a single amount on x Commission received from retailers for processing credit and debit the face of the income statement comprising the post-tax profit or loss of card transactions: income is accrued to the income statement as the discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised either service is performed: on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the discontinued operation.
A discontinued operation is a cash-generating x Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee unit or a group of cash-generating units that either has been disposed of, interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and services.
or is classified as held for sale, and a represents a separate major line The Group also receives interchange fees from other card issuers of business or geographical area of operations, b is part of a single cofor providing cash advances through its branch and automated teller ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or machine networks.
These fees are accrued once the transaction has geographical area of operations or c is a subsidiary acquired exclusively taken place: and with a view to resale.
x An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred and taken 5.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of pensions and to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. 12 months.
healthcare plans to eligible employees.
Insurance brokerage - this is made up of fees and commissions received For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on an from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on the sale of an insurance contract is earned at the inception of the policy, as the actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return on a high quality corporate insurance has been arranged and placed.
However, provision is made bond of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
Scheme where commission is refundable in the event of policy cancellation in line assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme with estimated cancellations.
assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
The current service cost, curtailments and Investment management fees - fees charged for managing investments any past service costs together with the expected return on scheme are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Incremental assets less the unwinding of the discount on the scheme liabilities is costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management contract are deferred and charged as expense as the related revenue is charged to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised.
recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside profit or loss and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised in Insurance premiums - see Accounting policy 12. the income statement when payable.
