Business review  All the disclosures in this section pages 199 to 203 are unaudited and Most general insurance contracts are written on an annual basis, which are marked with an asterisk.
means that the Group's liability extends for a twelve month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew the policy or can impose Insurance risk renewal terms by amending the premium, terms and conditions.
An analysis of gross and net insurance claims can be found in the notes Insurance risk arises through fluctuations in the timing, frequency and or on the financial statements see page 347. severity of insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
Insurance risk is managed in four distinct ways: Operational risk x underwriting and pricing risk management is managed through the Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed use of underwriting guidelines which detail the class, nature and internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
type of business that may be accepted, pricing policies by product Operational risk is an integral and unavoidable part of the Groups line and brand, and centralised control of wordings and any business as it is inherent in the processes it operates in to provide subsequent changes: services to customers and generate profit for shareholders.
An objective of operational risk management is not to remove operational risk x claims risk management is handled using a range of automated altogether, but to manage the risk to an acceptable level, taking into controls and manual processes: account the cost of minimising the risk as against the resultant reduction in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk include avoidance, x reserving risk management is applied to ensure that sufficient funds transfer, acceptance and mitigation by controls.
have been retained to handle and pay claims as the amounts fall Group Policy Framework GPF due, both in relation to those claims which have already occurred or The GPF supports a consistent approach to how we do business and will occur in future periods of insurance.
Reserving risk is managed helps everyone understand their individual and collective responsibilities.
through the detailed analysis of historical and industry claims data It is a core component of the Groups Risk Appetite Framework: it and robust control procedures around reserving models: and supports the risk appetite setting process, and also underpins the control environment.
x reinsurance risk management is used to protect against adverse claims experience on business which exceeds internal risk appetite.
Work to design, implement and embed an enhanced GPF has continued The Group uses various types of reinsurance to transfer risk that is throughout 2010 and will extend into 2011.
The Groups plans for ongoing outside the Group's risk appetite, including individual risk excess of development of GPF will support increased consistency in risk appetite loss reinsurance, catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance and quota setting across all risk types faced by the Group, including alignment to share reinsurance.
the Groups strategic business and risk objectives.
The Group will use relevant external reference points such as peers and rating agencies to Overall, insurance risk is predictable over time, given the large volumes challenge and verify the content of the Policy Standards making up GPF.
However, uncertainty does exist, especially around predictions such as the variations in weather for example.
Risk is minimised through Appropriate and effectively implemented Policy Standards are a the application of documented insurance risk policies, coupled with risk fundamental component of GPF and support attainment and governance frameworks and the purchase of reinsurance.
maintenance of an upper quartile control framework as compared The Group underwrites retail and SME insurance with a focus on high against the Groups relevant peer set.
The key insurance risks are as follows: The GPF requires consideration and agreement through Group governance of the level of risk appetite we have and how this is justifiable x motor insurance contracts private and commercial : claims in the context of our strategic objectives.
experience varies due to a range of factors, including age, gender and driving experience together with the type of vehicle and location: There will be ongoing reassessment of risks, risk appetite and controls within the GPF and where appropriate, potential issues will be identified x property insurance contracts residential and commercial : the major and addressed to ensure the Group moves in line with the set objectives causes of claims for property insurance are weather flood, storm, and remains constantly aligned with the upper quartile objective and theft, fire, subsidence and various types of accidental damage: and market practice at all times.
x other commercial insurance contracts: risk arises from business interruption and loss arising from the negligence of the insured liability insurance.
unaudited RBS Group 2010 199 Business review continued Risk management: Operational risk continued GPF is owned and managed by the Groups operational risk function and Through the three lines of defence model the Group obtains assurance relies upon the operational risk framework for effective implementation that the standards in the GPF are being adhered to.
GPF defines and ongoing maintenance.
requirements for testing and gathering evidence which demonstrates that each division and function is appropriately controlled.
Three lines of defence model To ensure appropriate responsibility is allocated for the management, reporting and escalation of operational risk, the Group operates a three lines of defence model which outlines principles for the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for operational risk management.
1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence The business Operational risk Group Internal Audit Accountable for the ownership and day-to-day Responsible for the implementation and Responsible for providing independent management and control of operational risk.
maintenance of the operational risk framework, assurance on the design, adequacy and tools and methodologies.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Responsible for implementing processes in controls.
Responsible for oversight and challenge on the adequacy of the risk and control processes Responsible for testing key controls and operating in the business.
monitoring compliance with Group policies.
The Groups Operational Risk Policy Standards ORPS are incorporated - clients, products and business practices: in the GPF.
They provide the direction for delivering effective operational - technology and infrastructure failures: risk management and are designed to enable the consistent identification, - employment practices and workplace safety: assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of operational riskinternal fraud: across the Group.
-external fraud: - execution, delivery and process management: The three lines of defence model and the ORPS apply throughout the - malicious damage: and Group and are implemented taking into account the nature and scale of - disaster and public safety.
The following key operational risk management techniques are included in the ORPS: x New product approval process: this process ensures that all new products or significant variations to existing products are subject to a x Risk and control assessments: business units identify and assess comprehensive risk assessment.
Products are evaluated and operational risks to ensure that they are effectively managed, approved by specialist areas and are subject to executive approval prioritised, documented and aligned to risk appetite: prior to launch: and x Scenario analysis: scenarios for operational risk are used to assess x Self certification process: this requires management to monitor and the possible impact of extreme but plausible operational risk loss report regularly on the internal control framework for which they are events.
Scenario assessments provide a forward looking basis for responsible, confirming its adequacy and effectiveness.
This managing exposures that are beyond the Groups risk appetite: includes certifying compliance with the requirements of Group policies.
x Loss data management: each business units internal loss data management process captures all operational risk loss events above Each business unit must manage its operational risk exposure within an certain minimum thresholds.
The data is used to enhance the acceptable level, testing the adequacy and effectiveness of controls and adequacy and effectiveness of controls, identify opportunities to other risk mitigants for example, insurance regularly and documenting prevent or reduce the impact of recurrence, identify emerging the results.
Where unacceptable control weaknesses are identified, themes, enable formal loss event reporting and inform risk and action plans must be produced and tracked to completion.
The Group control assessments and scenario analysis.
Escalation of individual purchases insurance to provide the business with financial protection events to senior management is determined by the seriousness of against specific losses and to comply with statutory or contractual the event.
Operational loss events are categorised under the requirements.
Insurance is used as a risk mitigation tool in controlling the following headings: Groups exposures providing protection against financial loss once a risk has crystallised.
unaudited 200 RBS Group 2010 Business review  Operational risk metrics Operational risk events greater than 10,000 by event category - % of total events by count.
Reporting forms an integral part of operational risk management.
The The chart below shows as at 31 December 2010, execution, delivery and Groups risk management processes are designed to ensure that issues process management, together with external fraud, continued to account are identified, escalated and managed on a timely basis.
Exposures for for circa 90% of losses by count during 2010. each division are reported through monthly risk and control reports, which provide details on the risk exposures and action plans.
Events that have a material, actual or potential impact on the Groups finances, reputation or customers, are escalated and reported to divisional and Group executives.
50% 40% 30% %of2009loss events counts %of2010loss 20% events counts 10% Clients, Disasters Employment Execution, External Internal Malicious Technology productand and practicesand deliveryand fraud fraud damage and business public workplace process infrastructure practices safety safety management failures The charts below show a similar distribution of losses by value across the risk categories, captured at the date the event occurred and updated as losses crystallise.
2010 2009 Clients,  Execution, delivery, andprocessmanagement Externalfraud Other Note: 1 Work continued throughout 2010 to ensure the treatment, capture and recording of losses in RBS N. V. mirrored the RBS group approach.
This has resulted in a small movement in the 2009 metrics recorded in this report compared to those recorded last year.
Fraud prevention A high proportion of the Groups operational risk events have a low Fraud remains a big challenge to the Group, and the rest of the financial financial cost associated with them and a very small proportion of services industry.
The Group continues to respond to this threat, operational risk events have a material impact.
In 2010, 96% of reported continually investing in people and processes for both detective and operational losses had a value of 100,000 or less 2009 - 95%, but preventative measures, especially in relation to the impact of organised accounted for 33% of the overall impact 2009 - 18%.
In contrast, 0.3% crime against the Group.
The Group's key strategic programmes continue of the operational risk events had a value of 1 million or greater 2009 - to focus on solutions for payment fraud, ATM security, identification of 1%, but accounted for 35% of the overall impact 2009 - 61%.
counterfeit documentation and online banking protection for the Groups customers.
The Groups investments have resulted in multi-million pound savings and, through close working ties with law enforcement agencies, handing down of significant custodial sentences.
