Financial guarantee contracts Financial assets carried at fair value - when a decline in the fair value of a Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a fee, financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been recognised undertakes to meet a customers obligations under the terms of a debt directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, instrument if the customer fails to do so.
A financial guarantee is the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or recognised as a liability: initially at fair value and, if not designated as at loss.
The loss is measured as the difference between the amortised cost fair value through profit or loss, subsequently at the higher of its initial of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses on value less cumulative amortisation and any provision under the contract available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed through profit or measured in accordance with Accounting policy 13.
Amortisation is loss, but those on available-for-sale debt instruments are reversed, if calculated so as to recognise fees receivable in profit or loss over the there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a period of the guarantee.
Financial liabilities Provision is made for loan commitments, other than those classified as On initial recognition financial liabilities are classified into held-for-trading: held-for-trading, if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and the designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or amortised cost.
resulting loan will be recognised at a value less than the cash advanced.
Syndicated loan commitments in excess of the level of lending under the Held-for-trading - a financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is commitment approved for retention by the Group are classified as heldincurred principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a for-trading and measured at fair value.
portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a 20.
Held-for-trading financial liabilities are A financial asset is derecognised when it has been transferred and the recognised at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A transfer requires that the Group or loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses either a transfers the contractual rights to receive the asset's cash flows: are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
or b retains the right to the asset's cash flows but assumes a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to a third party.
After a transfer, the Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial liabilities may Group assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks and rewards be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such of ownership of the transferred asset.
If substantially all the risks and designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or rewards have been retained, the asset remains on the balance sheet.
If recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, substantially all the risks and rewards have been transferred, the asset is financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and evaluates on a fair derecognised.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither value basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an embedded retained nor transferred, the Group assesses whether or not it has derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host contract.
retained control of the asset.
If it has not retained control, the asset is derecognised.
Where the Group has retained control of the asset, it Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as continues to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with involvement.
transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the obligation designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
On the redemption or settlement or loss as they arise.
of debt securities including subordinated liabilities issued by the Group, the Group derecognises the debt instrument and records a gain or loss Financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss being the difference between the debt's carrying amount and the cost of include structured liabilities issued by the Group: designation significantly redemption or settlement.
The same treatment applies where the debt is reduces the measurement inconsistency between these liabilities and the exchanged for a new debt issue that has terms substantially different related derivatives carried at fair value: and in 2009 and 2008 investment from those of the existing debt.
The assessment of whether the terms of contracts issued by the Group's life assurance businesses: fair value the new debt instrument are substantially different takes into account designation significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency that qualitative and quantitative characteristics including a comparison of the would arise if these liabilities were measured at amortised cost.
discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms with the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original debt Amortised cost - all other financial liabilities are measured at amortised issue.
cost using the effective interest method see Accounting policy 3.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is quoted in an active market is the current offer price times the number of units of the instrument held or issued.
Fair values for financial liabilities not quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques including discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial liabilities.
