Sale and repurchase transactions Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a derivative are Securities subject to a sale and repurchase agreement under which recognised as they arise in profit or loss unless the derivative is the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge.
The Group enters into three Group continue to be shown on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds types of hedge relationship: hedges of changes in the fair value of a recorded as a financial liability.
Securities acquired in a reverse sale and recognised asset or liability or firm commitment fair value hedges : repurchase transaction under which the Group is not exposed to hedges of the variability in cash flows from a recognised asset or liability substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are not recognised on or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded as a financial of the net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
The Securities borrowing and lending transactions are usually secured by documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging instrument and cash or securities advanced by the borrower.
Borrowed securities are not details the risk that is being hedged and the way in which effectiveness recognised on the balance sheet or lent securities derecognised.
Cash will be assessed at inception and during the period of the hedge.
If the collateral given or received is treated as a loan or deposit: collateral in the hedge is not highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash form of securities is not recognised.
However, where securities borrowed flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk are transferred to third parties, a liability for the obligation to return the management strategy, hedge accounting is discontinued.
securities to the stock lending counterparty is recorded.
Fair value hedge - in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging 22.
Netting instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on the hedged Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount item attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in profit or loss and presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group currently adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts: and it discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle accounting: or if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or the liability simultaneously.
The Group is party to a number of exercised: or if hedge designation is revoked.
If the hedged item is one arrangements, including master netting agreements, that give it the right for which the effective interest rate method is used, any cumulative to offset financial assets and financial liabilities but where it does not adjustment is amortised to profit or loss over the life of the hedged item intend to settle the amounts net or simultaneously and therefore the using a recalculated effective interest rate.
assets and liabilities concerned are presented gross.
Cash flow hedge - in a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain 23.
Capital instruments or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity and the The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial ineffective portion in profit or loss.
When the forecast transaction results asset, financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with the in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, the cumulative substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is classified as gain or loss is reclassified from equity in the same periods in which the a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on potentially loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss at the same unfavourable terms.
An instrument is classified as equity if it evidences a time as the hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the residual interest in the assets of the Group after the deduction of liabilities.
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting: if the hedging The components of a compound financial instrument issued by the Group instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised: if the forecast are classified and accounted for separately as financial assets, financial transaction is no longer expected to occur: or if hedge designation is liabilities or equity as appropriate.
On the discontinuance of hedge accounting except where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 24.
Derivatives and hedging unrealised gain or loss in equity is recognised in profit or loss when the Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and subsequently hedged cash flow occurs or, if the forecast transaction results in the measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are determined from recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, in the same periods quoted prices in active markets where available.
Where there is no active during which the asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Where a forecast market for an instrument, fair value is derived from prices for the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain derivative's components using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
or loss in equity is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation - in the hedge of a net derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign exchange economic characteristics of the host contract: unless the entire contract is differences arising on the hedging instrument determined to be an measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is loss.
recognised in profit or loss.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
