Financial statements 40 Segmental analysis US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through the a Divisions Citizens and Charter One brands.
US Retail & Commercial is engaged in The directors manage the Group primarily by class of business and retail and corporate banking activities through its branch network in 12 present the segmental analysis on that basis.
This includes the review of states in the United States and through non-branch offices in other states.
net interest income for each class of business - interest receivable and payable for all reportable segments is therefore presented net.
Segments Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to major charge market prices for services rendered to other parts of the Group: corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an funding charges between segments are determined by Group Treasury, extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and having regard to commercial demands.
The segment measure is investment services to its customers.
The division is organised along six operating profit loss before tax, which differs from that reported principal business lines: money markets: rates flow trading: currencies previously in that it excludes fair value of own debt.
Comparative data and commodities: equities: credit and mortgage markets and portfolio have been restated accordingly.
The Group's reportable segments are on a divisional basis as follows: RBS Insurance provides a wide range of general insurance products to consumers through a number of well known brands including: Direct Line, UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and related Churchill and Privilege.
It also provides insurance services for third party financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers through the brands through its UKI Partnerships division.
In the commercial sector, its RBS and NatWest networks of branches and ATMs in the United NIG and Direct Line for Business operations provide insurance products Kingdom, and also through telephone and internet channels.
for businesses via brokers or direct respectively.
Through its international division, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, mainly motor, in UK Corporate is a leading provider of banking, finance, and risk Germany and Italy.
In addition to insurance services, RBS Insurance management services to the corporate and SME sector in the United continues to provide support and reassurance to millions of UK motorists Kingdom.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial through its Green Flag breakdown recovery service and Tracker stolen services through a nationwide network of relationship managers, and also vehicle recovery and telematics business.
through telephone and internet channels.
The product range includes asset finance through the Lombard brand.
Central items comprises Group and corporate functions, such as treasury, funding and finance, risk management, legal, communications and Wealth provides private banking and investment services in the UK human resources.
The Centre manages the Group's capital resources through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company: offshore banking through and Group-wide regulatory projects and provides services to the RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank: and operating divisions.
international private banking through RBS Coutts.
Non-Core Division manages separately assets that the Group intends to Global Transaction Services GTS ranks among the top five global run off or dispose of.
The division contains a range of businesses and transaction services providers, offering global payments, cash and asset portfolios primarily from the GBM division, linked to proprietary liquidity management, and trade finance and commercial card products trading, higher risk profile asset portfolios including excess risk and services.
It includes the Group's corporate money transmission concentrations, and other illiquid portfolios.
It also includes a number of activities in the United Kingdom and the United States.
other portfolios and businesses, including regional markets businesses, that the Group has concluded are no longer strategic.
Ulster Bank is the leading retail and business bank in Northern Ireland and the third largest banking group on the island of Ireland.
It provides a comprehensive range of financial services.
The Retail Markets division which has a network of 236 branches, operates in the personal and financial planning sectors.
The Corporate Markets division provides services to SME business customers, corporates and institutional markets.
