Shareholder information Disposal including redemption Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC considerations A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate US Holder A foreign corporation will be a PFIC in any taxable year in which, after will not give rise to any liability to UK tax on capital gains unless the US taking into account the income and assets of the corporation and certain Holder carries on a trade which for this purpose includes a profession or subsidiaries pursuant to applicable 'look-through rules', either i at least a vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and the PROs are, or 75% of its gross income is 'passive income' or ii at least 50% of the have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, carried on average value of its assets is attributable to assets which produce through such branch or agency.
passive income or are held for the production of passive income.
The company does not believe that it was a PFIC for its 2010 taxable year.
A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK tax Although interest income is generally passive income, a special rule on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is an allows banks to treat their banking business income as non-passive.
individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the relevant To qualify for this rule, a bank must satisfy certain requirements regarding year of assessment or accounting period carries on a trade, profession or its licensing and activities.
The company believes that it currently meets vocation in the UK through a branch or agency to which the PROs are these requirements.
The company's possible status as a PFIC must be attributable.
determined annually, however, and may be subject to change if the company fails to qualify under this special rule for any year in which a US Annual tax charges Holder holds ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK tax charges ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
If the company were to be or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange rates and in respect of treated as a PFIC in any year during which a US Holder holds ordinary profits, gains and losses arising from the PROs, but only if such corporate shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, US Holders carry on a trade in the UK through a UK permanent preference ADSs or PROs, US Holders would generally be subject to establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
adverse US federal income tax consequences.
Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the potential application of the PFIC rules to Inheritance tax the ownership and disposition of the company's ordinary shares, In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing system, the non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt in respect of a lifetime ADSs or PROs.
transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is not domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax purposes: HM Revenue & Exchange controls Customs is known to consider that the situs of securities held in this The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, manner is not necessarily determined by the place where the securities decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of capital, are registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a charge to including the availability of cash or cash equivalents for use by the Group, UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at less than market or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
Inheritance tax is not resident holders of the company's securities.
generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made more than seven years before the death of the donor.
However, exemption from, or a reduction There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the company of, any such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax Treaty or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of non-UK see below.
US Holders should consult their professional advisers in resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote the relation to such potential liability.
PROs beneficially owned by an company's securities.
individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of the UK, Memorandum and Articles of Association will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual's death or on a The company's Memorandum and Articles of Association as in effect at lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in certain cases where the PRO i is the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the Companies of Scotland.
The Articles of Association were last amended settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a national of the on 28 April 2010.
UK : ii is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used Incorporation and registration for the performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland under the Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or gift tax Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 March 1968 under the liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the PRO name National and Commercial Banking Group Limited, and changed its is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or gift tax.
name to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Limited on 3 September 1979.
On 10 March 1982 it was re-registered under the Companies Acts Stamp duty and SDRT 1948 to 1980 as a public company with limited liability.
The company is No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, registered under Company No.
transfer or redemption of the PROs.
Code of conduct As discussed on page 231, the Group has adopted a code of conduct applicable to all Group employees, which will be provided to any person without charge, upon request, by contacting Group Secretariat at the telephone number listed on page 443.
