Additional information United States In 2010, the company converted certain non-cumulative convertible In the US the Group continues to engage constructively with regulators preference shares into ordinary shares in the company.
As a result, HM and other bodies on regulatory and legislative change and seeks to Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares reduced to 67.8%.
ensure proper implementation and compliance.
Current issues include regulatory implementation of recently enacted US financial regulatory Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in the reform legislation, mortgage and credit card lending and consumer percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's ordinary, disclosures, debit and credit card interchange fees, and account overdraft B and preference shares during the three years ended 23 February 2011. protection.
All shareholders within a class of the company's shares have the same voting rights.
Other jurisdictions The Group is active in monitoring regulatory developments in each At 23 February 2011, the directors of the company had options to country in which it operates so that internal policies are sufficient to purchase a total of 10,455,306 ordinary shares of the company.
ensure the effective management of regulatory risk.
As at 31 December 2010, almost all of the company's US$ denominated Description of property and equipment preference shares and American Depository Shares representing The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
At 31 December 2010, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 647 and shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the 1,549 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a foot print US.
of 236 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
US Retail & Material contracts Commercial had 1,525 retail banking offices including in-store branches The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Group's principal properties RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, Santander computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2010 and the Dutch State.
On 1 April 2010 the CSA was restated.
governs the relationships amongst the parties thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO now RBS Holdings N. V.. Major shareholders The CSA as restated details, inter alia, the equity interests in RFS Details of major shareholders of the companys ordinary and B shares Holdings, the governance of RFS Holdings, the arrangements for the are given on page 233. transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets and liabilities to the Dutch State previously Fortis Bank Nederland, the company and In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury Santander, further funding obligations of the Dutch State, the company HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing and Santander where funding is required by regulatory authorities in 57.92% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
During 2009, HM connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation of Core Tier 1 Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising their capital, the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs and the steps holding to 70.3% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
that the Dutch State, the company and Santander expect to take to enable the company to become the sole shareholder of RFS Holdings.
In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the company representing the entire issued B share capital.
