Shareholder information continued Glossary of terms Collateralised loan obligations CLOs are asset-backed securities for Adjustable rate mortgage ARM - in the US a variable-rate mortgage.
which the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often leveraged loans.
ARMs include: hybrid ARMs which typically have a fixed-rate period followed by an adjustable-rate period: interest-only ARMs where interest Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss only is payable for a specified number of years, typically for three to ten provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards or personal years: and payment-option ARMs that allow the borrower to choose loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such provisions periodically between various payment options.
are established on a portfolio basis, taking account of the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on Alt-A Alternative A-paper are mortgage loans with a higher credit quality portfolio trends.
than sub-prime loans but with features that disqualify the borrower from a traditional prime loan.
Alt-A lending characteristics include limited Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS are asset-backed documentation: high loan-to-value ratio: secured on non-owner occupied securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on properties: and debt-to-income ratio above normal limits.
Arrears are the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt that Commercial paper CP comprises unsecured obligations issued by a have not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial asset is said corporate or a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed CP, to be 'in arrears' when payments have not been made.
often issued through a commercial paper conduit, to fund working capital.
Maturities typically range from 2 to 270 days.
However, the depth and Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP - a form of asset-backed reliability of some CP markets means that issuers can repeatedly roll over security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
CP issuance and effectively achieve longer term funding.
Commercial paper is issued in a wide range of denominations and can be either Asset-backed securities ABS are securities that represent interests in discounted or interest-bearing.
They are issued by a special purpose entity following a securitisation.
The underlying portfolios commonly comprise Commercial paper conduit is a special purpose entity that issues residential or commercial mortgages but can include any class of asset commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of that yields predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the underlying pool either by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or and other rights designed to assure timely payment, such as guarantees liquidity drawings.
Collateralised bond obligations, Commercial real estate - freehold and leasehold properties used for collateralised debt obligations, collateralised loan obligations, commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities business activities.
Commercial real estate includes office buildings, are all types of ABS.
industrial property, medical centres, hotels, retail stores, shopping centres, agricultural land and buildings, warehouses, garages etc.
Assets under management are assets managed by the Group on behalf of clients.
Constant proportion portfolio insurance notes CPPI notes - CPPI is the name given to a trading strategy that is designed to ensure that a fixed Collateralised bond obligations CBOs are asset-backed securities for minimum return is achieved either at all times or more typically, at a set which the underlying asset portfolios are bonds, some of which may be date in the future.
Essentially the strategy involves continuously resub-investment grade.
balancing the portfolio of investments during the term of the product between performance assets and safe assets using a pre-set formula.
Collateralised debt obligations CDOs are asset-backed securities for CPPI notes provide investors with a return linked to a CPPI portfolio.
which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: either bonds collateralised bond obligations or loans collateralised loan obligations Contractual maturity is the date in the terms of a financial instrument on or both.
The credit exposure underlying synthetic CDOs derives from which the last payment or receipt under the contract is due for settlement.
The CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are usually divided in different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, Core Tier 1 capital - called-up share capital and eligible reserves plus mezzanine tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
Losses equity non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and other are borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, and regulatory deductions.
finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher coupons interest payments to compensate for their increased risk.
Core Tier 1 capital ratio - core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskweighted assets.
Collateralised debt obligation squared CDO-squared is a type of collateralised debt obligation where the underlying asset portfolio Cost:income ratio - operating expenses as a percentage of total income.
includes tranches of other CDOs.
434 RBS Group 2010 Shareholder information Covered mortgage bonds are debt securities backed by a portfolio of demand, savings and time deposits: securities sold under repurchase mortgages that is segregated from the issuer's other assets solely for the agreements: and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from banks benefit of the holders of the covered bonds are classified as deposits by banks.
Credit default swap CDS is a contract where the protection seller Debt restructuring - see Renegotiated loans.
receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event in Debt securities are transferable instruments creating or acknowledging relation to a reference financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
They include debentures, bonds, certificates of deposit, Credit events usually include bankruptcy, payment default and rating notes and commercial paper.
The holder of a debt security is typically downgrades.
entitled to the payment of principal and interest, together with other contractual rights under the terms of the issue, such as the right to Credit derivative product company CDPC is a special purpose entity receive certain information.
Debt securities are generally issued for a that sells credit protection under credit default swaps or certain approved fixed term and redeemable by the issuer at the end of that term.
Debt forms of insurance policies.
Sometimes they can also buy credit securities can be secured or unsecured.
CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
However, unlike monoline insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
Debt securities in issue comprise unsubordinated debt securities issued by the Group.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, Credit derivatives are contractual agreements that provide protection bonds and medium-term notes.
against a credit event on one or more reference entities or financial assets.
The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer Deferred tax asset - income taxes recoverable in future periods as a result of deductible temporary differences - temporary differences and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return in tax deductible amounts in future periods - and the carry-forward of tax for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a losses and unused tax credits.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, total return swaps and credit swap options.
Deferred tax liability - income taxes payable in future periods as a result of taxable temporary differences temporary differences between the Credit enhancements - are techniques that improve the credit standing of accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in taxable financial obligations: generally those issued by an SPE in a securitisation.
External credit enhancements include financial guarantees and letters of credit from third-party providers.
Internal enhancements include excess Defined benefit obligation - the present value of expected future spread - the difference between the interest rate received on the payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan underlying portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and overresulting from employee service.
collateralisation - on securitisation, the value of the underlying portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
Defined benefit plan - pension or other post-retirement benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
Credit risk assets - loans and advances including overdraft facilities, instalment credit, finance lease receivables and other traded instruments Defined contribution plan - pension or other post-retirement benefit plan across all customer types.
where the employer's obligation is limited to its contributions to the fund.
Credit risk spread - is the difference between the coupon on a debt Delinquency - a debt or other financial obligation is considered delinquent instrument and the benchmark or the risk-free interest rate for the when one or more contractual payments are overdue.
Delinquency is instrument's maturity structure.
It is the premium over the risk-free rate usually defined in terms of days past due.
Delinquent and in arrears are required by the market for the credit quality of an individual debt synonymous.
Deposits by banks - comprise money deposited with the Group by banks Credit valuation adjustments - are adjustments to the fair values of and recorded as liabilities.
They include money-market deposits, derivative assets to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from customers are Currency swap - an arrangement in which two parties exchange specific recorded as customer accounts.
principal amounts of different currencies at inception and subsequently interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, one party will pay a Derivative - a contract or agreement whose value changes with changes fixed interest rate, while the other will pay a floating exchange rate in an underlying index such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, though there are also fixed-fixed and floating-floating arrangements.
At share prices or indices and which requires no initial investment or an the maturity of the swap, the principal amounts are usually re-exchanged.
initial investment that is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts with a similar response to market factors.
The principal types of Customer accounts - comprise money deposited with the Group by derivatives are: swaps, forwards, futures and options.
counterparties other than banks and classified as liabilities.
They include RBS Group 2010 435 Shareholder information continued Glossary of terms continued contracts in that they are traded on recognised exchanges and rarely Discontinued operation - is a component of the Group that either has result in actual delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to maturity by been disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued acquisition of an offsetting position.
operation is either: a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or a Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States that have agreed to participate in the IMF's General Arrangements to Borrow.
Exposure at default EAD - an estimate of the expected level of utilisation of a credit facility at the time of a borrower's default.
The EAD Ginnie Mae Government National Mortgage Association - is a US may be higher than the current utilisation e. g. in the case where further Government Agency that guarantees investors the timely payment of drawings may be made under a revolving credit facility prior to default principal and interest on mortgage-backed securities for which the but will not typically exceed the total facility limit.
underlying asset portfolios comprise federally insured or guaranteed loans - mainly loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration or Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association - is a US guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Ginnie Mae Government Sponsored Enterprise.
It buys mortgages, principally issued obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of by banks, on the secondary market, pools them, and sells them as principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the US Government.
residential mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open market.
Its obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs - are a group of financial the US Government.
services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function is to improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome statutory and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation - see Freddie Mac.
other market imperfections which otherwise prevent funds from moving easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high loan demand.
They include Federal National Mortgage Association - see Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
FICO score - a FICO score is calculated using proprietary software Gross yield - is the interest rate earned on average interest-earning developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a consumer's assets i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning assets.
The scores range between 300 and 850 and are used in credit decisions made by banks and other providers of credit.
Guaranteed mortgages - are mortgages that are guaranteed by a government or government agency.
In the US, government loan First second lien - a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by one guarantee programmes are offered by the Federal Housing party, over property owned by a second party, as security for payment of Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second party.
The holder of a Agriculture's Rural Housing Service.
In the Netherlands, the first lien takes precedence over all other encumbrances on that property Gemeentegarantie programme is run partly by the central government i. e. second and subsequent liens.
and partly by the municipalities.
Forbearance - is the term generally applied to an agreement, principally Home equity loan - is a type of loan in which the borrower uses the equity in relation to secured loans with retail customers experiencing temporary in their home as collateral.
A home equity loan creates a charge against financial difficulty, to a payment moratorium, to reduced repayments or to the borrower's house.
Forbearance loans are a subset of Renegotiated loans.
Impaired loans - comprise all loans for which an impairment provision has Forward contract - a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an agreed future provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is date.
Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation - is a US Impairment allowance - see Loan impairment provisions.
It buys mortgages, principally issued by thrifts, on the secondary market, pools them, and sells them as Impairment losses - for impaired financial assets measured at amortised residential mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open market.
cost, impairment losses - the difference between carrying value and the Its obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset's the US Government.
original effective interest rate - are recognised in profit or loss and the carrying amount of the financial asset reduced by establishing a provision Futures contract - is a contract which provides for the future delivery or allowance.
For impaired available-for-sale financial assets, the acceptance of delivery of some type of financial instrument or commodity cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is removed under terms established at the outset.
Futures differ from forward from equity and recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss.
436 RBS Group 2010 Shareholder information Individually assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss Loan-to-value ratio - the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the provisions for individually significant impaired loans assessed on a caseappraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of a by-case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the mortgage loan as a percentage of the property's value.
counterparty and any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral held.
Loss given default LGD - the economic loss that may occur in the event of default i. e. the actual loss - that part of the exposure that is not International Accounting Standards Board IASB - is the independent expected to be recovered - plus any costs of recovery.
standard-setting body of the IASC Foundation.
Its members are responsible for the development and publication of International Financial Master netting agreement - is an agreement between two counterparties Reporting Standards IFRS and for approving Interpretations of IFRS as that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for developed by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single Committee IFRIC.
currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Interest rate swap - a contract under which two counterparties agree to Medium term notes MTNs - are debt securities usually with a maturity of exchange periodic interest payments on a predetermined monetary five to ten years, but the term may be less than one year or as long as 50 principal, the notional amount.
They can be issued on a fixed or floating coupon basis or with an exotic coupon: with a fixed maturity date non-callable or with embedded Interest spread - is the difference between the gross yield and the interest call or put options or early repayment triggers.
MTNs are most generally rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
issued as senior, unsecured debt.
Monoline insurers Investment grade - generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of - are entities that specialise in providing credit BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
protection against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default.
This protection is typically in Latent loss provisions - loan impairment provisions held against the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps.
impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date but which have Mortgage-backed securities - are asset-backed securities for which the not been identified as impaired at the balance sheet date.
The Group has underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
See developed methodologies to estimate latent loss provisions that reflect Residential mortgage backed securities and Commercial mortgage historical loss experience adjusted for current economic and credit backed securities.
conditions and the period between an impairment occurring and a loan being identified and reported as impaired.
Mortgage servicing rights - are the rights of a mortgage servicer to collect mortgage payments and forward them, after deducting a fee, to the Leveraged loans - funding leveraged finance provided to a business mortgage lender.
resulting in an overall level of debt that exceeds that which would be considered usual for the business or for the industry in which it operates.
Mortgage vintage - the year in which a mortgage loan was made to the Leveraged finance is commonly employed to achieve a specific, often customer.
temporary, objective: to make an acquisition, to effect a buy-out or to repurchase shares.
Negative equity mortgages - mortgages where the value of the property mortgaged is less than the outstanding balance on the loan.
Liquidity enhancements - make funds available to ensure that the issuer of securities, usually a commercial paper conduit, can redeem the Net interest income - is the difference between interest receivable on securities at maturity.
They typically take the form of a committed facility financial assets classified as loans and receivables or available-for-sale from a third-party bank.
and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Loan impairment provisions - are established to recognise incurred Net interest margin - is net interest income as a percentage of average impairment losses on a portfolio of loans classified as loans and interest-earning assets.
receivables and carried at amortised cost.
It has three components: individually assessed loan impairment provisions, collectively assessed Net principal exposure - is the carrying value of a financial asset after loan impairment provisions and latent loss provisions.
taking account of credit protection purchased but excluding the effect of any counterparty credit valuation adjustment to that protection.
RBS Group 2010 437 Shareholder information continued Glossary of terms continued Renegotiated loans - loans are generally renegotiated either as part of Non-conforming mortgages - mortgage loans that do not meet the the ongoing banking relationship with a creditworthy customer or in requirements for sale to US Government agencies or US Government response to a borrower's financial difficulties.
In the latter case, sponsored enterprises.
These requirements include limits on loan-torenegotiation encompasses not only revisions to the terms of a loan such value ratios, loan terms, loan amounts, borrower creditworthiness and as a maturity extension, a payment moratorium, a concessionary rate of other requirements.
interest but also the restructuring of all or part of the exposure including debt forgiveness or a debt for equity swap.
Loans renegotiated as part of Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but not the the ongoing banking relationship with a creditworthy customer, are obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of the underlying physical or treated as new loans.
financial commodity, at a specific price, at an agreed date or over an agreed period.
Options can be exchange-traded or traded over-theRepurchase agreement Repo - see Sale and repurchase agreements.
Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS - are asset-backed Past due - a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Potential problem loans - are loans other than impaired loans, accruing Restructured loans - see Renegotiated loans.
loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest and troubled debt restructurings where known information about Retail loans - are loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
The possible credit problems of the borrower causes management to have loans may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical care, home repair, holidays and other consumer uses.
serious doubts about the borrower's ability to meet the loan's repayment terms.
Reverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo - see Sale and Prime - prime mortgage loans generally have low default risk and are repurchase agreements.
made to borrowers with good credit records and a monthly income that is at least three to four times greater than their monthly housing expense Risk asset ratio RAR - total regulatory capital as a percentage of riskmortgage payments plus taxes and other debt payments.
borrowers provide full documentation and generally have reliable payment histories.
Risk elements in lending REIL - comprise impaired loans, accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or Private equity investments - are equity investments in operating interest and troubled debt restructurings.
companies not quoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity investment is raised from retail or institutional investors and used to fund Risk-weighted assets - assets adjusted for their associated risks using investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth weightings established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord as capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Certain assets are not weighted but deducted from capital.
Pro forma cost:income ratio - operating expenses excluding purchased intangibles amortisation, write-down of goodwill and other intangible Sale and repurchase agreements - in a sale and repurchase agreement assets, integration and restructuring costs and share of shared assets one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at expressed as a percentage of total income excluding credit market writethe same time the seller agrees to reacquire, and the buyer to resell, the downs and one-off items.
From the seller's perspective such agreements are repurchase agreements repos and from the buyer's reverse repurchase Probability of default PD - the likelihood that a customer will fail to make agreements reverse repos.
full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one year time horizon.
Securitisation - is a process by which assets or cash flows are transformed into transferable securities.
The underlying assets or cash Regular way purchase or sale - is a purchase or sale of a financial asset flows are transferred by the originator or an intermediary, typically an under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time investment bank, to a special purpose entity which issues securities to frame established generally by regulation or convention in the investors.
Asset securitisations involve issuing debt securities assetmarketplace concerned.
backed securities that are backed by the cash flows of incomegenerating assets ranging from credit card receivables to residential mortgage loans.
Liability securitisations typically involve issuing bonds that assume the risk of a potential insurance liability ranging from a catastrophic natural event to an unexpected claims level on a certain product type.
438 RBS Group 2010 Shareholder information Special purpose entity SPE - is an entity created by a sponsor, typically Tier 1 capital ratio - Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
a major bank, finance company, investment bank or insurance company.
An SPE can take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership, corporation Tier 2 capital - qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in or a limited liability company.
Its operations are typically limited for issue, eligible collective impairment allowances, unrealised available-forexample in a securitisation to the acquisition and financing of specific sale equity gains and revaluation reserves less certain regulatory assets or liabilities.
Structured Investment Vehicle SIV - is a limited-purpose operating US Government National Mortgage Association - see Ginnie Mae.
company that undertakes arbitrage activities by purchasing highly rated medium and long-term, fixed-income assets and funding itself with shortUnaudited - unaudited financial information is information that has not term, highly rated commercial paper and medium-term notes.
been subjected to the audit procedures undertaken by the Group's auditors to enable them to express an opinion on the Group's financial Structured notes - are securities that pay a return linked to the value or statements.
level of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
VaR - is a technique that produces estimates of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio over a specified time horizon at given Student loan related assets - are assets that are referenced to underlying confidence levels.
Wrapped security - a wrapped security is a debt security where the holder Subordinated liabilities - are liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or benefits from credit protection provided by a third party, typically a liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and financial guarantor or monoline insurer.
other creditors of the issuer.
Write down - a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to record a Sub-prime - sub-prime mortgage loans are designed for customers with decline in its fair value or value in use.
one or more high risk characteristics, such as: unreliable or poor payment histories: loan-to-value ratio of greater than 80%: high debt-to-income ratio: the loan is not secured on the borrower's primary residence: or a history of delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
Super senior CDO - is the most senior class of instrument issued by a CDO vehicle.
They benefit from the subordination of all other instruments, including AAA rated securities, issued by the CDO vehicle.
Tier 1 capital - core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, less material holdings in financial companies.
