Share-based payments The impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the The Group awards shares and options over shares in The Royal Bank of loan and the present value of estimated future cash flows at the loan's Scotland Group plc to its employees.
The expense for these transactions original effective interest rate.
is measured based on the fair value on the date the awards are granted.
The fair value of an option is estimated using valuation techniques which At 31 December 2010, gross loans and advances to customers totalled take into account its exercise price, its term, the risk-free interest rate and 573,315 million 2009 - 745,519 million: 2008 - 885,611 million and the expected volatility of the market price of The Royal Bank of Scotland customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 18,055 million 2009 - Group plc's shares.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when 17,126 million: 2008 - 10,889 million.
measuring fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the proportion of awards that actually vest.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line There are two components to the Group's loan impairment provisions: basis over the vesting period.
Following an amendment to IFRS 2 for individual and collective.
accounting periods starting after 1 January 2009, the cancellation of an award with non-vesting conditions triggers immediate recognition of an Individual component - all impaired loans that exceed specific thresholds expense in respect of any unrecognised element of the fair value of the are individually assessed for impairment.
principally comprise the Group's portfolio of commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment losses are recognised as the 26.
Cash and cash equivalents difference between the carrying value of the loan and the discounted Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand deposits with value of management's best estimate of future cash repayments and banks together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into account the convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of customer's debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and quality of change in value.
its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the realisable value of any security held.
Shares in Group entities Estimating the quantum and timing of future recoveries involves The company's investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost less any significant judgement.
The size of receipts will depend on the future impairment.
performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of which will be affected by future economic conditions: additionally, collateral may not Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty be readily marketable.
The actual amount of future cash flows and the The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, date they are received may differ from these estimates and consequently assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in preparing statements.
the Group's financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are Collective component - this is made up of two elements: loan impairment reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or provisions for impaired loans that are below individual assessment interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting thresholds collectively assessed provisions and for loan losses that Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and apply an have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the sheet date latent loss provisions.
Collectively assessed provisions are light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and established on a portfolio basis using a present value methodology taking related issues and the IASB's Framework for the Preparation and into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant involved in the Group's accounting policies that are considered by the factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition the related average life.
These portfolios include credit card receivables are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that and other personal advances including mortgages.
The future credit differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment Loan impairment provisions provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, The Group's loan impairment provisions are established to recognise notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Latent receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when there loss provisions are held against estimated impairment losses in the is objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have performing portfolio that have yet to be identified as at the balance sheet affected expected cash flows from the loan.
To assess the latent loss within its portfolios, the Group has indicative that a borrowers financial condition has deteriorated, can developed methodologies to estimate the time that an asset can remain include for loans that are individually assessed: the non-payment of impaired within a performing portfolio before it is identified and reported interest or principal: debt restructuring: probable bankruptcy or liquidation: as such.
significant reduction in the value of any security: breach of limits or covenants: and deteriorating trading performance and, for collectively assessed portfolios: the borrowers payment status and observable data about relevant macroeconomic measures.
