Notes on the accounts continued 12 Financial instruments - valuation Senior management valuation control committees meet formally on a Valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value monthly basis to discuss independent pricing, reserving and valuation Control environment issues relating to both GBM and Non-Core exposures.
All material The Group's control environment for the determination of the fair value of methodology changes require review and ratification by these committees.
financial instruments includes formalised protocols for the review and The committees include valuation specialists representing several validation of fair values independent of the businesses entering into the independent review functions which comprise market risk, QuaRC and transactions.
There are specific controls to ensure consistent pricing finance.
policies and procedures, incorporating disciplined price verification.
The Group ensures that appropriate attention is given to bespoke transactions, The Group Executive Valuation Committee discusses the issues structured products, illiquid products and other instruments which are escalated by the Modelled Product Review Committee, GBM and Nondifficult to price.
Core senior management Valuations Control Committee and other relevant issues, including the APS credit derivative valuation.
The A key element of the control environment is the independent price committee covers key material and subjective valuation issues within the verification IPV process.
Valuations are first performed by the business trading business.
The committee will provide ratification to the which entered into the transaction.
Such valuations may be directly from appropriateness of areas with high levels of residual valuation uncertainty.
available prices, or may be derived using a model and variable model Committee membership includes the Group Finance Director, the Group inputs.
These valuations are reviewed, and if necessary amended, by a Chief Accountant, Global Head of Market and Insurance Risk, GBM Chief team independent of those trading the financial instruments, in the light of Financial Officer and Non-Core Chief Financial Officer, and available pricing evidence.
representation from front office trading and finance.
All IPV variances are classified as either hard or soft.
A variance is hard Valuation issues, adjustments and reserves are reported to the GBM, where the independent information represents tradable or liquid prices, Non-Core and Group Audit Committees.
Key judgmental issues are and soft where it does not.
Adjustments are required for all hard described in reports submitted to these Audit Committees.
variances and for aggressive soft variances, but with conservative variances not requiring adjustment.
New products The Group has formal review procedures to ensure that new products, Monthly meetings are held between the business and the support asset classes and risk types are appropriately reviewed to ensure, functions to discuss the results of the IPV and reserves process in detail.
amongst other things, that valuation is appropriate.
Group Operational Risk owns the Group New Product Approval Process, the scope of which IPV is performed at a frequency to match the availability of independent includes new business, markets, models, risks and structures.
For liquid instruments IPV is performed daily.
The minimum frequency of review in the Group is monthly for exposures in the During 2010, the Group made a significant and ongoing investment into regulatory trading book, and six monthly for exposures in the regulatory enhancing its already robust control environment.
This included a new banking book.
The IPV control includes formalised reporting and global IPV and reserving tool, which partly automates the process of escalation of any valuation differences in breach of established carrying out IPV and consolidation of reserves into a single central portal.
The Global Pricing Unit GPU determines IPV policy, Valuation hierarchy monitors adherence to that policy, and performs additional independent There is a process to review and control the classification of financial reviews on highly subjective valuation issues for GBM and Non-Core.
instruments into the three level hierarchy established by IFRS 7.
Some instruments may not easily fall into a level of the fair value hierarchy per Valuation models are subject to a review process which requires different IFRS 7 see pages 314 to 315 and judgment may be required as to levels of model documentation, testing and review, depending on the which level the instrument is classified.
complexity of the model and the size of the Group's exposure.
A key element of the control environment over model use is a modelled product Initial classification of a financial instrument is carried out by the Business review committee, made up of valuations experts from several functions Unit Control BUC team following the principles in IFRS.
BUC base their within the Group.
This committee sets the policy for model documentation, judgment on information gathered during the IPV process for instruments testing and review, and prioritises models with significant exposure for which include the sourcing of independent prices and model inputs.
The review by the Group's Quantitative Research Centre QuaRC.
Potential quality and completeness of the information gathered in the IPV process valuation uncertainty is a key input in determining model review priorities gives an indication as to the liquidity and valuation uncertainty of an at these meetings.
The QuaRC team within Group Risk, which is instrument.
independent of the trading businesses, assesses the appropriateness of the application of the model to the product, the mathematical robustness These initial classifications are challenged by GPU and are subject to of the model, and where appropriate, considers alternative modelling further review by local CFO, divisional CFO and the Group Chief approaches.
Particular attention is paid during the review processes upon instruments crossing from one level to another, new instrument classes or products, instruments that are generating significant profit and loss and instruments where valuation uncertainty is high.
310 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements Valuation techniques correlation.
Volatility is a key input in valuing options and the The Group derives fair value of its instruments differently depending on valuation of certain products such as derivatives with more than one whether the instrument is a non-modelled or modelled product.
Volatility and correlation values are obtained from broker quotations, pricing Non-modelled products services or derived from option prices.
Non-modelled products are valued directly from a price input and are typically valued on a position by position basis and include cash, equities x Prepayment rates - the fair value of a financial instrument that can and most debt securities.
be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from that of an instrument that cannot be prepaid.
In valuing prepayable Modelled products instruments that are not quoted in active markets, the Group Modelled products are those that are valued using a pricing model, considers the value of the prepayment option.
ranging in complexity from comparatively vanilla products such as x Counterparty credit spreads - adjustments are made to market interest rate swaps and options e. g. interest rate caps and floors prices or parameters when the creditworthiness of the counterparty through to more complex derivatives.
The valuation of modelled products differs from that of the assumed counterparty in the market price or requires an appropriate model and inputs into this model.
models are also used to derive inputs e. g. to construct volatility surfaces.
The Group uses a number of modelling methodologies.
x Recovery rates loss given default - these are used as an input to valuation models and reserves for  and other Inputs to valuation models credit products as an indicator of severity of losses on default.
Values between and beyond available data points are obtained by Recovery rates are primarily sourced from market data providers or interpolation and extrapolation.
When utilising valuation techniques, the inferred from observable credit spreads.
fair value can be significantly affected by the choice of valuation model and by underlying assumptions concerning factors such as the amounts The Group may use consensus prices for the source of independent and timing of cash flows, discount rates and credit risk.
The principal pricing for some assets.
The consensus service encompasses the equity, inputs to these valuation techniques are as follows: interest rate, currency, commodity, credit, property, fund and bond x Bond prices - quoted prices are generally available for government markets, providing comprehensive matrices of vanilla prices and a wide bonds, certain corporate securities and some mortgage-related selection of exotic products.
GBM and Non-Core contribute to consensus products.
pricing services where there is a significant interest either from a positional point of view or to test models for future business use.
Data x Credit spreads - where available, these are derived from prices of sourced from consensus pricing services is used for a combination of credit default swaps or other credit based instruments, such as debt control processes including direct price testing, evidence of observability securities.
For others, credit spreads are obtained from pricing and model testing.
In practice this means that the Group submits prices services.
for all material positions for which a service is available.
x Interest rates - these are principally benchmark interest rates such In order to determine a reliable fair value, where appropriate, as the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and quoted interest management applies valuation adjustments to the pricing information rates in the swap, bond and futures markets.
gathered from the above sources.
These adjustments reflect the Group's x Foreign currency exchange rates - there are observable markets assessment of factors that market participants would consider in setting a both for spot and forward contracts and futures in the world's major price.
Furthermore, on an ongoing basis, the Group assesses the currencies.
appropriateness of any model used.
To the extent that the price provided by internal models does not represent the fair value of the instrument, for x Equity and equity index prices - quoted prices are generally readily instance in highly stressed market conditions, the Group makes available for equity shares listed on the world's major stock adjustments to the model valuation to calibrate to other available pricing exchanges and for major indices on such shares.
Where unobservable inputs are used, the Group may determine a range of possible valuations derived from differing stress scenarios to x Commodity prices - many commodities are actively traded in spot and forward contracts and futures on exchanges in London, New determine the sensitivity associated with the valuation.
When establishing York and other commercial centres.
the fair value of a financial instrument using a valuation technique, the Group considers certain adjustments to the modelled price which market x Price volatilities and correlations - volatility is a measure of the participants would make when pricing that instrument.
Such adjustments tendency of a price to change with time.
Correlation measures the include the credit quality of the counterparty and adjustments to degree to which two or more prices or other variables are observed compensate for any known model limitations.
If they move in the same direction there is positive correlation: if they move in opposite directions there is negative RBS Group 2010 311 Notes on the accounts continued 12 Financial instruments - valuation continued Valuation reserves When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, adjustments are made to mid-market valuations to cover bid-offer spread, liquidity and credit risk.
The table below shows the valuation reserves and adjustments.
2010 2009 2008 m m m Credit valuation adjustments Monoline insurers 2,443 3,796 5,988 Credit derivative product companies 490 499 1,311 Other counterparties 1,714 1,588 1,738 4,647 5,883 9,037 Bid-offer and liquidity reserves 2,797 2,814 3,260 7,444 8,697 12,297 Credit valuation adjustments CVA Vanilla risk on exotic products is typically reserved as part of the overall Credit valuation adjustments represent an estimate of the adjustment to portfolio based calculation e. g. delta and vega risk is included within the fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate the credit delta and vega bid-offer calculations.
Aggregation of risk arising from risk inherent in counterparty derivative exposures.
The Group makes different models is in line with the Group's risk management practices: such credit adjustments to derivative exposures it has to counterparties, the model review control process considers the appropriateness of model as well as debit valuation adjustments to liabilities issued by the Group.
CVA is discussed in Risk and balance sheet management - Other risk exposures - Credit valuation adjustments pages 211 to 215.
Product related risks such as correlation risk attract specific bid-offer reserves.
Additional reserves are provided for exotic products to ensure Bid-offer and liquidity reserves overall reserves match market close-out costs.
These market close-out Fair value positions are adjusted to bid for assets or offer for liabilities costs inherently incorporate risk decay and cross-effects which are levels, by marking individual cash based positions directly to bid or offer unlikely to be adequately reflected in static hedges based on vanilla or by taking bid-offer reserves calculated on a portfolio basis for instruments.
Where there is limited bid-offer information for a product, a conservative The bid-offer approach is based on current market spreads and standard approach is adopted, taking into account pricing approach and risk market bucketing of risk.
Risk data is used as the primary source of management strategy.
information within bid-offer calculations and is aggregated when it is more granular than market standard buckets.
Derivative discounting The market convention for some derivative products has moved to pricing Bid-offer adjustments for each risk factor are determined by aggregating collateralised derivatives using the overnight indexed swap OIS curve, similar risk exposures arising on different products.
Additional basis which reflects the interest rate typically paid on cash collateral.
In order to bid offer reserves are taken where these are charged in the market.
Risk reflect observed market practice the Groups valuation approach for the associated with non identical underlying exposures is not netted down substantial portion of its collateralised derivatives was amended to use unless there is evidence that the cost of closing the combined risk OIS.
Previously the Group had discounted these collateralised derivatives exposure is less than the cost of closing on an individual basis.
The rate for discounting uncollateralised derivatives example: interest rate delta bid-offer methodology when viewed in was also changed in line with observable market pricing.
This change isolation allows aggregation of risk across different tenor bases.
Tenor resulted in a net increase in income from trading activities of 127 million basis bid-offer reserves are then applied to compensate for the netting for 2010. within the original delta bid-offer calculation.
Amounts deferred on initial recognition Bid-offer spreads vary by maturity and risk type to reflect different On initial recognition of financial assets and liabilities valued using spreads in the market.
For positions where there is no observable quote, valuation techniques incorporating information other than observable the bid-offer spreads are widened in comparison to proxies to reflect market data, any difference between the transaction price and that reduced liquidity or observability.
Bid-offer methodologies also derived from the valuation technique is deferred.
Such amounts are incorporate liquidity triggers whereby wider spreads are applied to risks recognised in profit or loss over the life of the transaction: when market above pre-defined thresholds.
data becomes observable: or when the transaction matures or is closed out as appropriate.
At 31 December 2010, net gains of 167 million 2009 Netting is applied across risk buckets where there is market evidence to - 204 million: 2008 - 102 million were carried forward in the balance support this.
For example, calendar netting and cross strike netting sheet.
During the year net gains of 62 million 2009 - 127 million: 2008 effects are taken into account where such trades occur regularly within - 89 million were deferred and 99 million 2009 - 25 million: 2008 - the market.
Netting will also apply where long and short risk in two 65 million recognised in the income statement.
different risk buckets can be closed out in a single market transaction at less cost than by way of two separate transactions closing out the individual bucketed risk in isolation.
312 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements Own credit The fair value of the Group's derivative financial liabilities has also been The Group takes into account the effect of its own credit standing when adjusted to reflect the Group's own credit risk.
The adjustment takes into valuing financial liabilities recorded at fair value in accordance with IFRS.
account collateral posted by the Group and the effects of master netting The categories of financial liabilities on which own credit spread agreements.
adjustments are made are issued debt held at fair value, including issued structured notes and derivatives.
An own credit adjustment is applied to The own credit adjustment for fair value does not alter cash flows, is not positions where it is believed that counterparties would consider the used for performance management and is disregarded for regulatory Group's creditworthiness when pricing trades.
capital reporting processes and will reverse over time as the liabilities mature.
For issued debt and structured notes, this adjustment is based on independent quotes from market participants for the debt issuance The reserve movement between periods will not equate to the reported spreads above average inter-bank rates, at a range of tenors which the profit or loss for own credit.
The balance sheet reserves are stated by market would demand when purchasing new senior or sub-debt conversion of underlying currency balances at spot rates for each period issuances from the Group.
Where necessary, these quotes are whereas the income statement includes intra-period foreign exchange interpolated using a curve shape derived from credit default swap prices.
The effect of change in credit spreads could be reversed in future periods, provided the liability is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
The table below shows own credit adjustments on own liabilities.
RBS Group 2010 313 Notes on the accounts continued 12 Financial instruments - valuation continued Valuation hierarchy The following tables show financial instruments carried at fair value on the Groups balance sheet by valuation hierarchy - level 1, level 2 and level 3.
RBS Group 2010 315 Notes on the accounts continued 12 Financial instruments - valuation continued The table below analyses level 3 balances and related valuation sensitivities.
2009 2010 Sensitivity 2 Sensitivity 2 Balance Favourable Unfavourable Balance  bn m m bn m m Assumptions Assets Loans and advances Credit spreads, indices 0.8 70 60 1.1 80 40 Debt securities 0.7 120 80 0.6 60 10 MBS Prepayment rates, probability of default, loss severity and yield 2.4 180 20 1.0 130 80 CDOs Implied collateral valuation, default rates, housing prices, correlation CLOs Credit spreads, recovery rates, correlation 2.1 180 50 0.8 80 50 Other ABS Credit spreads 1.4 150 80 0.9 120 40 Corporate 0.9 60 60 0.6 70 20 Credit spreads Bank and building societies 0.7 60 60 0.2 10 30 Credit spreads 8.2 750 350 4.1 470 230 Equity shares 1.0 160 160 1.5 280 220 Fund valuation Derivatives Foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 10 Volatility, correlation Interest rate 1.7 150 140 1.5 80 100 Volatility, correlation 0.6 860 940 1.4 1,370 1,540 Credit - APS Credit spreads, correlation, expected losses, discount rate recoveries, loss credits Credit - other 3.1 320 170 3.0 420 360 Counterparty credit risk, correlation, volatility Equities and commodities 0.2 0.3 20 20 Correlation, dividends 5.7 1,330 1,250 6.4 1,900 2,020 Total assets 15.7 2,310 1,820 13.1 2,730 2,510 Total assets - 2008 21.4 1,880 2,200 Of which AFS debt securities: MBS 0.4 10 0.2 CDOs 1.4 100 10 0.4 40 20 CLOs 1.5 110 10 0.1 10 10 Other ABS 1.1 80 40 0.6 40 20 4.4 300 60 1.3 90 50 Equity shares 0.3 60 60 0.7 100 90 Total AFS assets 4.7 360 120 2.0 190 140 Total AFS assets - 2008 3.3 150 230 For notes relating to this table refer to page 317.
316 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements 2010 2009 Sensitivity 2 Sensitivity 2 Balance Favourable Unfavourable Balance Favourable Unfavourable bn m m bn m m Assumptions Liabilities Customer accounts - other Credit spreads, correlation 0.1 60 60 0.1 10 Debt securities in issue 2.2 90 110 2.3 50 10 Volatility, correlation Short positions 0.8 20 50 0.2 10 20 Credit spreads, correlation Derivatives Foreign exchange 10 Interest rate 1.0 70 90 0.8 40 60 Volatility, correlation Credit - other Counterparty credit risk, correlation, volatility 0.3 40 40 1.0 80 100 Equity and commodities Correlation, dividends 0.4 10 0.2 20 70 1.7 120 140 2.0 140 230 4.8 290 360 4.6 200 270 Total liabilities - 2008 9.0 550 490 Notes: 1 Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets, for identical financial instruments.
Examples include G10 government securities, listed equity shares, certain exchange-traded derivatives and certain US agency securities.
Level 2: valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using: a quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active: or b valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuations are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
The type of instruments that trade in markets that are not considered to be active, but are based on quoted market prices, banker dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency and those instruments valued using techniques include most government agency securities, investment-grade corporate bonds, certain mortgage products, most bank and bridge loans, repos and reverse repos, less liquid listed equities, state and municipal obligations, most physical commodities, investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance 2009 and 2008 and certain money market securities and loan commitments and most OTC derivatives.
Level 3: instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation, is not based on observable market data.
Where inputs can be observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used.
Otherwise, the Group determines a reasonable level for the input.
Financial instruments primarily include cash instruments which trade infrequently, certain syndicated and commercial mortgage loans, unlisted equity shares, certain residual interests in securitisations, super senior tranches of high grade and mezzanine CDOs, other mortgage-based products and less liquid debt securities, certain structured debt securities in issue, and OTC derivatives where valuation depends upon unobservable inputs such as certain credit and exotic derivatives.
No gain or loss is recognised on the initial recognition of a financial instrument valued using a technique incorporating significant unobservable data.
2 Sensitivity represents the favourable and unfavourable effect on the income statement or the statement of comprehensive income due to reasonably possible changes to valuations using reasonably possible alternative inputs to the Group's valuation techniques or models.
Totals for sensitivities are not indicative of the total potential effect on the income statement or the statement of comprehensive income.
The level 3 sensitivities above are calculated at a trade or low level portfolio basis.
They are not calculated on an overall portfolio basis and therefore do not reflect the likely overall potential uncertainty on the whole portfolio.
The figures are aggregated and do not reflect the correlated nature of some of the sensitivities.
In particular, for some of the portfolios the sensitivities may be negatively correlated where a downwards movement in one asset would produce an upwards movement in another, but due to the additive presentation of the above figures this correlation cannot be observed.
For example, with assets in the APS scheme, the downwards sensitivity on the underlying asset would be materially offset by the consequent upward movement of the APS derivative, so whilst the net sensitivity of the two positions may be lower, it would be shown with the gross upside and downside sensitivity of the two assets inflating the overall sensitivity figures in the above table.
The actual potential downside sensitivity of the total portfolio may be less than the non-correlated sum of the additive figures as shown in the above table.
Key points x Level 3 assets of 15.7 billion represented 2.0% 2009 - 13.1 x Level 3 liabilities increased to 4.8 billion, mainly reflecting the billion and 1.6% of total assets carried at fair value, an increase impact of wider credit spreads on short positions.
of 2.6 billion, reflecting the movement of some lower quality AFS CDOs and CLOs in Non-Core in Q1 2010, where price discovery x The favourable and unfavourable effects of reasonably possible indicated uncertainty in observability.
In addition, the use of more alternative assumptions on financial instruments carried at fair conservative internal recovery rates for the calculation of CVA for value were 2,310 million and 1,820 million respectively of certain monolines resulted in these credit derivatives moving to which 860 million and 940 million related to the APS credit level 3.
This was partially offset by disposals in Q3 2010 and derivative.
The reduction in the APS sensitivity corresponds with tighter credit spreads.
The fair value of APS credit derivative a decrease in the overall value of the protection that the scheme decreased from 1,400 million to 550 million primarily due to the provides.
reduction in overall assets covered by the scheme.
RBS Group 2010 317 Notes on the accounts continued Modelled products 12 Financial instruments - valuation continued For modelled products the market convention is to quote these trades Judgmental issues through the model inputs or parameters as opposed to a cash price The diverse range of products traded by the Group results in a wide equivalent.
A mark-to-market is derived from the use of the independent range of instruments that are classified into the three level hierarchy.
market inputs calculated using the Groups model.
Whilst the majority of these instruments naturally fall into a particular level, for some products an element of judgment is required.
The majority of the The decision to classify a modelled asset as level 2 or 3 will be Groups financial instruments carried at fair value are classified as level 2: dependent upon the product model combination, the currency, the inputs are observable either directly i. e. as a price or indirectly i. e. maturity, the observability of input parameters and other factors.
All these derived from prices.
need to be assessed to classify the asset.
Active and inactive markets A key input in the decision making process for the allocation of assets to An assessment is made of each input into a model.
There may be a particular level is liquidity.
In general, the degree of valuation multiple inputs into a model and each is assessed in turn for observability uncertainty depends on the degree of liquidity of an input.
If an input fails the observability or quality tests then the derivative can be placed into level 2 or level 3 dependent upon its liquidity.
instrument is considered to be in level 3 unless the input can be shown to have an insignificant effect on the overall valuation of the product.
Where markets are liquid or very liquid, little judgment is required.
However, when the information regarding the liquidity in a particular The majority of derivative instruments are classified as level 2 as they are market is not clear, a judgment may need to be made.
This can be made vanilla products valued using observable inputs.
The valuation more difficult as assessing the liquidity of a market may not always be uncertainty on these is considered to be low and both input and output straightforward.
For an equity traded on an exchange, daily volumes of testing may be available.
Examples of these products would be vanilla trading can be seen, but for an-over-the counter OTC derivative interest rate swaps, foreign exchange swaps and liquid single name assessing the liquidity of the market with no central exchange can be credit derivatives.
Non-modelled products Non-modelled products are generally quoted on a price basis and can A key related issue is where a market moves from liquid to illiquid or vice therefore be considered for each of the 3 levels.
This is determined by versa.
Where this change is considered to be temporary, the the liquidity and valuation uncertainty of the instruments which is in turn classification is not changed.
For example, if there is little market trading measured from the availability of independent data used by the IPV in a product on a reporting date but at the previous reporting date and process.
during the intervening period the market has been considered to be liquid, the instrument will continue to be classified in the same level in the The availability and quality of independent pricing information is hierarchy.
This is to provide consistency so that transfers between levels considered during the classification process.
An assessment is made are driven by genuine changes in market liquidity and do not reflect short regarding the quality of the independent information.
For example where term or seasonal effects.
consensus prices are used for non-modelled products, a key assessment Interaction with the IPV process of the quality of a price is the depth of the number of prices used to The determination of an instruments level cannot be made at a global provide the consensus price.
If the depth of contributors falls below a set product level as a single product type can be in more than one level.
For hurdle rate, the instrument is considered to be level 3.
This hurdle rate is example, a single name corporate credit default swap could be in level 2 consistent with the rate used in the IPV process to determine whether or or level 3 depending on whether the reference counterparty is liquid or not the data is of sufficient quality to adjust the instruments valuations.
However where an instrument is generally considered to be illiquid, but regular quotes from market participants exist, these instruments may be As part of the Groups IPV process, data is gathered at a trade level from classified as level 2 depending on frequency of quotes, other available market trading activity, trading systems, pricing services, consensus pricing and whether the quotes are used as part of the IPV process or not.
pricing providers, brokers and research material amongst other sources.
The breadth and detail of this data allows a good assessment to be made of liquidity and pricing uncertainty, which assists with the process of allocation to an appropriate level.
Where suitable independent pricing information is not readily available the instrument will be considered to be level 3.
318 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements For some instruments with a wide number of available price sources, Debt securities RMBS there may be differing quality of available information and there may be a RMBS where the underlying assets are US agency-backed mortgages wide range of prices from different sources.
In these situations an and there is regular trading are generally classified as level 2 in the fair assessment is made as to which source is the highest quality and this will value hierarchy.
RMBS are also classified as level 2 when regular trading be used to determine the classification of the asset.
For example, a is not prevalent in the market, but similar executed trades or third-party tradable quote would be considered a better source than a consensus data including indices, broker quotes and pricing services can be used to price.
RMBS are classified as level 3 when trading Instruments that cross levels activity is not available and a model with significant unobservable data is Some instruments will predominantly be in one level or the other, but utilised.
others may cross between levels.
For example, a cross currency swap may be between very liquid currency pairs where pricing is readily In determining whether an instrument is similar to that being valued, the observed in the market and will therefore be classified as level 2.
The Group considers a range of factors, principally: the lending standards of cross currency swap may also be between two illiquid currency pairs in the brokers and underwriters that originated the mortgages, the lead which case the swap would be placed into level 3.
Defining the difference manager of the security, the issue date of the respective securities, the between liquid and illiquid may be based upon the number of consensus underlying asset composition including origination date, loan to value providers the consensus price is made up from and whether the ratios, historic loss information and geographic location of the mortgages, consensus price can be supplemented by other sources.
the credit rating of the instrument, and any credit protection that the instrument may benefit from, such as insurance wraps or subordinated Certain portfolios in level 2 contain instruments whose fair values tranches.
Where there are instances of market observable data for incorporate the judgements discussed above.
These include a portfolio of several similar RMBS tranches, the Group considers the extent of similar ABS in Non-Core of 5.7 billion that had more than average level of characteristics shared with the instrument being valued, together with the valuation uncertainty with a range of 5.6 billion to 5.9 billion using frequency, tenor and nature of the trades that have been observed.
method is most frequently used for US and UK RMBS.
RMBS of Dutch and Spanish originated mortgages guaranteed by those governments are Level 3 portfolios and sensitivity methodologies valued using the credit spreads of the respective government debt and For each of the portfolio categories shown in the tables above, there certain assumptions made by the Group, or based on observable prices follows a description of the types of products that comprise the portfolio from Bloomberg or consensus pricing services.
and the valuation techniques that are applied in determining fair value, including a description of valuation techniques used for levels 2 and 3 The Group primarily uses an industry standard model to project the and inputs to those models and techniques.
Where reasonably possible expected future cash flows to be received from the underlying mortgages alternative assumptions of unobservable inputs used in models would and to forecast how these cash flows will be distributed to the various change the fair value of the portfolio significantly, the alternative inputs holders of the RMBS.
This model utilises data provided by the servicer of are indicated.
Where there have been significant changes to valuation the underlying mortgage portfolio, layering on assumptions for mortgage techniques during the year a discussion of the reasons for this are also prepayments, probability of default, expected losses, and yield.
Group uses data from third-party sources to calibrate its assumptions, including pricing information from third-party pricing services, Loans and advances to customers independent research, broker quotes, and other independent sources.
An Loans in level 3 primarily comprise commercial mortgages.
assessment is made of third-party data source to determine its applicability and reliability.
The Group adjusts the model price with a Commercial mortgages liquidity premium to reflect the price that the instrument could be traded in These senior and mezzanine commercial mortgages are loans secured the market and may also make adjustments for model deficiencies.
on commercial land and buildings that were originated or acquired by the Group for securitisation.
Senior commercial mortgages carry a variable The fair value of securities within each class of asset changes on a interest rate and mezzanine or more junior commercial mortgages may broadly consistent basis in response to changes in given market factors.
carry a fixed or variable interest rate.
Factors affecting the value of these However, the extent of the change, and therefore the range of reasonably loans may include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property possible alternative assumptions, may be either more or less pronounced, type and geographic location, loan interest rate, loan to value ratios, debt depending on the particular terms and circumstances of the individual service coverage ratios, prepayment rates, cumulative loan loss security.
The Group believes that probability of default was the least information, yields, investor demand, market volatility since the last transparent input into Alt-A and prime RMBS modelled valuations and securitisation, and credit enhancement.
Where observable market prices most sensitive to variations.
for a particular loan are not available, the fair value will typically be determined with reference to observable market transactions in other loans or credit related products including debt securities and credit derivatives.
Assumptions are made about the relationship between the loan and the available benchmark data.
RBS Group 2010 319 Notes on the accounts continued 12 Financial instruments - valuation continued Commercial mortgage backed securities Derivatives CMBS are valued using an industry standard model and the inputs, Derivatives are priced using quoted prices for the same or similar where possible, are corroborated using observable market data.
instruments where these are available.
However, the majority of derivatives are valued using pricing models.
Inputs for these models are Collateralised debt obligations usually observed directly in the market, or derived from observed prices.
CDOs purchased from third-parties are valued using independent, thirdHowever, it is not always possible to observe or corroborate all model party quotes or independent lead manager indicative prices.
Unobservable inputs used are based on estimates taking into senior CDOs which have been originated by the Group no specific thirdaccount a range of available information including historic analysis, party information is available.
The valuation of these super senior CDOs historic traded levels, market practice, comparison to other relevant therefore takes into consideration outputs from a proprietary model, benchmark observable data and consensus pricing data.
market data and appropriate valuation adjustments.
Credit derivatives - APS A collateral net asset value methodology using dealer buy side marks is The Group purchased credit protection over a portfolio of specified assets used to determine an upper bound for super senior CDO valuations.
An and exposures covered assets from HMT.
The Group has a right to ABS index implied collateral valuation is also used to provide a market terminate the APS at any time provided that the Financial Services calibrated valuation data point.
Both the ABS index implied valuation and Authority has confirmed in writing to HMT that it has no objection to the the collateral net asset value methodology apply an assumed immediate proposed termination.
On termination the Group must pay HMT the liquidation approach.
higher of the regulatory capital relief received and 2.5 billion less premiums paid plus the aggregate of amounts received from the UK Collateralised loan obligations Government under the APS.
In consideration for the protection provided To determine the fair value of CLOs purchased from third parties, the by the APS, the Group paid an initial premium of 1.4 billion on 31 Group uses third-party broker or lead manager quotes as the primary December 2009.
A further premium of 700 million was paid on 31 pricing source.
These quotes are benchmarked to consensus pricing December 2010.
Quarterly premiums of 125 million will be payable from sources where they are available.
31 December 2011 and subsequently until the earlier of 2099 and the termination of the agreement.
For CLOs originated and still held by the Group, the fair value is determined using a correlation model based on a Monte Carlo simulation The APS is a single contract providing credit protection in respect of the framework.
The main model inputs are credit spreads and recovery rates covered assets.
Under IFRS, credit protection is treated either as a of the underlying assets and their correlation.
A credit curve is assigned financial guarantee contract or as a derivative financial instrument to each underlying asset based on prices from third-party dealer quotes depending on the terms of the agreement and the nature of the protected and cash flow profiles, sourced from an industry standard model.
The Group has concluded, principally because the are calculated taking into account the attachment and detachment point covered portfolio includes significant exposure in the form of derivatives, of the exposure.
Where the correlation inputs to this model are not that the APS does not meet the criteria to be treated as a financial observable, CLOs are classified as level 3. guarantee contract.
The contract has therefore been accounted for as a derivative financial instrument.
It was recognised initially and measured Other asset-backed and corporate debt securities subsequently at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit Where observable market prices for a particular debt security are not or loss within income from trading activities.
There is no change in the available, the fair value will typically be determined with reference to recognition and measurement of the covered assets as a result of the observable market transactions in other related products, such as similar APS.
debt securities or credit derivatives.
Assumptions are made about the relationship between the individual debt security and the available Where protection is provided on a particular seniority of exposure, as is benchmark data.
Where significant management judgment has been the case with the APS, which requires initial losses to be taken by the applied in identifying the most relevant related product, or in determining Group, it is termed tranched protection.
The model being used to value the relationship between the related product and the instrument itself, the the APS - a Gaussian Copula model with stochastic recoveries - is used instrument is classified as level 3. by the Group to value tranches traded by the exotic credit desk and is a model that is currently used within the wider market.
Equity shares Private equity investments include unit holdings and limited partnership The option to exit the APS is not usually present in such tranched trades interests primarily in corporate private equity funds, debt funds and fund and consequently, there is no standard market practice for reflecting this of hedge funds.
Externally managed funds are valued using recent prices part of the trade within the standard model framework.
The approach that where available.
Where not available, the fair value of investments in has been adopted assumes that the Group will not exit the trade before externally managed funds is generally determined using statements or the minimum level of fees has been paid and at this point it will be clear other information provided by the fund managers.
whether it should exit the trade or not.
The APS derivative is valued as the payment of the minimum level of fees in return for protection receipts The Group considers that valuations may rely significantly on the which are in excess of both the first loss and the total future premiums.
judgments and estimates made by the fund managers, particularly in assessing private equity components.
Given the decline in liquidity in world markets, and the level of subjectivity, these are included in level 3.
320 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements The model primarily uses the following inputs in relation to each individual Range of possible recovery rates on underlying assets alpha : - 10% asset: notional, maturity, probability of default and expected recovery rate The level of alpha used in the valuation of the APS is in line with that given default.
Other key inputs include: the correlation between the used to value tranches traded by the exotic credit desk and assumes that underlying assets: the range of possible recovery rates on the underlying the underlying assets have a wide range of potential recovery rates.
As assets alpha : the size of the first loss: and the level of expected losses the APS protects a wider range of asset classes than is generally on covered assets that have been sold, that can be treated as losses for referenced by exotic credit trades, there is uncertainty in relation to this the purpose of the APS loss credits.
A comparison of actual recoveries to expected recoveries supports the approach adopted and, in light of this, only changes of - During 2010, refinements were made to the treatment of derivative trades 10% in the assumed width of this range are considered reasonable.
This followed a change in the nature of protection provided in relation to certain structured credit trades involving mainly Credit spreads: - 10% asset backed securities and associated bought protection credit The credit spread uncertainty relates to determining the probability of derivatives: the risk of losses arising on the derivative trades due to default for assets where there is no such observable data in the market.
counterparty risk was replaced by the risk of incurring losses on the An analysis of the impact on credit spreads of small changes in the underlying asset backed securities that are not recovered through the ratings assumptions in key geographic regions indicated that overall derivative trades.
The valuation refinements were made to accurately credit spread movements in the - 10% range look reasonable.
reflect the impact of this change and ensure a consistent treatment across all derivative trades.
Discount curve: - 1% Due to the long-dated contractual maturity of the APS, and the The APS protects a wide range of asset types, and hence, the correlation requirement to pay fixed levels of premiums each year, the valuation is between the underlying assets cannot be observed from market data.
In sensitive to long-term interest rates.
Valuation uncertainty arises due to the absence of this, the Group determines a reasonable level for this the illiquidity of such interest rates.
An interest rate range of - 1% is input.
The expected recovery rate given default is based on internally considered reasonable.
The probability of default is calculated with reference to data observable in the market.
Where possible, data is obtained for each Loss credits: - 10% asset within the APS, but for most of the assets, such observable data The level of expected losses on covered assets that have been sold that does not exist.
In these cases, this important input is determined from can be treated as losses for the purpose of the APS are assessed by the information available for similar entities by geography and rating.
For disposals made by the Group where this approach for doing this was refined during the year in order to accurately assessment has not been completed, the Group makes an estimate of the likely assessment for the purpose of valuing of the APS.
A range of reflect both changes in market conditions and the profile of the portfolio of covered assets.
- 10% in the level of assessment is considered reasonable.
As the inputs into the valuation model are not all observable the APS Using the above reasonably possible alternative assumptions, the fair derivative is a level 3 asset.
The fair value of the credit protection at 31 value of the APS derivative could be higher by approximately 860 million December 2010 was 0.55 billion 2009 - 1.40 billion.
or lower by approximately 940 million as detailed in the table below.
Favourable Unfavourable The Group has used the following reasonably possible alternative Sensitivity m m assumptions in relation to those inputs that could have a significant effect Correlation - 10% 300 300 on the valuation of the APS: Recover alpha - 10% 250 300 Spreads -10% 125 100 Correlation: - 10% Discount curve - 1% The correlation uncertainty relates to both the nature of the underlying 175 230 portfolio and the seniority of protection.
The -10% correlation range Loss credit - 10% 10 10 looks reasonable in light of market observable correlations of similar Total 860 940 levels of protection seniority, for portfolios of investment grade and high yield assets.
Individual sensitivities above have been aggregated and do not reflect the correlated effect of some of the assumptions as related sensitivities.
RBS Group 2010 321 Notes on the accounts continued Equity derivatives 12 Financial instruments - valuation continued Equity derivative products are split into equity exotic derivatives and Credit derivatives - other The Group's other credit derivatives include vanilla and bespoke portfolio equity hybrids.
Equity exotic derivatives have payouts based on the tranches, gap risk products and certain other unique trades.
performance of one or more stocks, equity funds or indices.
Most payouts are based on the performance of a single asset and are valued using Valuation of single name credit derivatives is carried out using industry observable market option data.
Unobservable equity derivative trades are standard models.
Where single name derivatives have been traded and typically complex basket options on stocks.
Such basket option payouts there is a lack of independent data or the quality of the data is weak, depend on the performance of more than one equity asset and require these instruments are classified into level 3.
These assets will be priced correlations for their valuation.
Valuation is then performed using industry using the Groups standard credit derivative model using a proxy curve standard valuation models, with unobservable correlation inputs based upon a suitable alternative single name curve, a cash based calculated by reference to correlations observed between similar product or a sector based curve.
Where the sector based curve is used, underlyings.
the proxy will be chosen taking maturity, rating, seniority, geography and internal credit review on recoveries into account.
Sensitivities for these Equity hybrids have payouts based on the performance of a basket of instruments will be based upon the selection of reasonable alternative underlyings where underlyings are from different asset classes.
assumptions which may include adjustments to the credit curve and Correlations between these different underlyings are typically recovery rate assumptions.
unobservable with no market information on closely related assets available.
Where no market for the correlation input exists, these inputs The bespoke portfolio tranches are synthetic tranches referenced to a are based on historical time series.
bespoke portfolio of corporate names on which the Group purchases Interest rate and commodity derivatives credit protection.
Bespoke portfolio tranches are valued using Gaussian Interest rate and commodity options provide a payout or series of Copula, a standard method which uses observable market inputs credit payouts linked to the performance of one or more underlying, including spreads, index tranche prices and recovery rates to generate an output interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodities.
price for the tranche by way of a mapping methodology.
In essence this method takes the expected loss of the tranche expressed as a fraction of Exotic options do not trade in active markets except in a small number of the expected loss of the whole underlying portfolio and calculates which cases.
Consequently, the Group uses models to determine fair value detachment point on the liquid index, and hence which correlation level, using valuation techniques typical for the industry.
These techniques can coincides with this expected loss fraction.
Where the inputs to this be divided, firstly, into modelling approaches and, secondly, into methods valuation technique are observable in the market, bespoke tranches are of assessing appropriate levels for model inputs.
The Group uses a considered to be level 2 assets.
Where inputs are not observable, variety of proprietary models for valuing exotic trades.
bespoke tranches are considered to be level 3 assets.
However, all transactions executed with a CDPC counterparty are considered level 3 Exotic valuation inputs include correlation between interest rates, foreign as the counterparty credit risk assessment is a significant component of exchange rates and commodity prices.
Correlations for more liquid rate these valuations.
pairs are valued using independently sourced consensus pricing levels.
Where a consensus pricing benchmark is unavailable, these instruments Gap risk products are leveraged trades, with the counterparty's potential are classified as level 3. loss capped at the amount of the initial principal invested.
Gap risk is the probability that the market will move discontinuously too quickly to exit a The carrying value of debt securities in issue is represented partly by portfolio and return the principal to the counterparty without incurring underlying cash and partly through a derivative component.
The losses, should an unwind event be triggered.
This optionality is classification of the amount in level 3 is driven by the derivative embedded within these portfolio structures and is very rarely traded component and not by the cash element.
Gap risk is not observable in the markets and, as such, these structures are deemed to be level 3 instruments.
Other financial instruments In addition to the portfolios discussed above, there are other financial Other unique trades are valued using a specialised model for each instruments which are held at fair value determined from data which are instrument and the same market data inputs as all other trades where not market observable, or incorporating material adjustments to market applicable.
By their nature, the valuation is also driven by a variety of observed data.
These include subordinated liabilities and write downs other model inputs, many of which are unobservable in the market.
relating to undrawn syndicated loan facilities.
Where these instruments have embedded optionality they are valued using a variation of the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, and where they have correlation exposure they are valued using a variant of the Gaussian Copula model.
The volatility or unique correlation inputs required to value these products are generally unobservable and the instruments are therefore deemed to be level 3 instruments.
RBS Group 2010 323 Notes on the accounts continued 12 Financial instruments - valuation continued Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value The following table shows the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments carried on the balance sheet at amortised cost.
Group 2010 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value bn bn bn bn bn bn Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 57.0 57.0 52.3 52.3 12.4 12.4 Loans and advances to banks 36.2 36.1 46.3 46.0 82.0 81.9 Loans and advances to customers 493.1 468.8 684.1 650.9 821.1 776.1 Debt securities 7.1 6.4 9.9 9.0 13.0 11.5 Settlement balances 11.6 11.6 12.0 12.0 17.8 17.8 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 50.0 50.4 88.5 88.3 176.9 176.3 Customer accounts 438.5 438.6 552.8 552.1 575.5 576.4 Debt securities in issue 167.2 163.8 222.1 218.5 248.8 241.3 Settlement balances 11.0 11.0 10.4 10.4 11.7 11.7 Subordinated liabilities 25.9 21.9 36.4 31.6 47.6 36.4 The fair values of the companys financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying values apart from subordinated liabilities, 2010 carrying value 8.0 billion, fair value 5.8 billion 2009 - carrying value 8.8 billion: fair value 4.9 billion: 2008 - carrying value 10.3 billion: fair value 8.8 billion and debt securities, 2010 carrying value 1.5 billion, fair value 1.8 billion 2009 - carrying value 1.3 billion, fair value 1.3 billion: 2008 - nil Loans and advances to banks and customers The fair value is the amount an asset could be exchanged, or a liability Fair value is estimated by grouping loans into homogeneous portfolios settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm's length and applying a discount rate to the cash flows.
The discount rate is based transaction.
Quoted market values are used where available: otherwise, on the market rate applicable at the balance sheet date for a similar fair values have been estimated based on discounted expected future portfolio with similar maturity and credit risk characteristics.
cash flows and other valuation techniques.
These techniques involve uncertainties and require assumptions and judgments covering Debt securities prepayments, credit risk and discount rates.
Changes in these Fair values are determined using quoted prices where available or by assumptions would significantly affect estimated fair values.
The fair reference to quoted prices of similar instruments.
values reported would not necessarily be realised in an immediate sale or settlement.
As a wide range of valuation techniques is available, it may Deposits by banks and customer accounts be inappropriate to compare the Group's fair value information to The fair values of deposits are estimated using discounted cash flow independent markets or other financial institutions.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities The fair values of intangible assets, such as core deposits, credit card Fair values are determined using quoted prices where available or by and other customer relationships are not included in the calculation of reference to valuation techniques, adjusting for own credit spreads where these fair values as they are not financial instruments.
The assumptions and methodologies underlying the calculation of fair values of financial instruments at the balance sheet date are as follows: The fair value of financial instruments which are of short maturity three months or less approximates their carrying value.
This mainly applies to cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of collection from other banks, settlement balances, items in the course of transmission to other banks and demand deposits.
