Intangible assets and goodwill The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less Land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss over the assets' estimated economic lives using Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits and is included Short leaseholds unexpired period of the lease in depreciation and amortisation.
The estimated useful economic lives are Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years as follows: Computer equipment up to 5 years Other equipment 4 to 15 years Core deposit intangibles 6 to 10 years Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years 8.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Computer software 3 to 5 years At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment are Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is written-off as impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment loss if any.
Goodwill computer software are capitalised once technical feasibility and economic is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes viability have been established.
These costs include payroll, the costs of in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset does not materials and services, and directly attributable overheads.
Capitalisation generate cash flows that are independent from those of other assets or of costs ceases when the software is capable of operating as intended.
groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cashDuring and after development, accumulated costs are reviewed for generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an impairment against the projected benefits that the software is expected to asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical feasibility Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the asset or and economic viability are expensed as incurred as are all training costs cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects market interest and general overheads.
The costs of licences to use computer software rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit that that are expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year are have not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
recoverable amount of an intangible or tangible asset is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the loss and the carrying value of the asset reduced by the amount of the Group's interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities loss.
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets excluding and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture goodwill or property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises acquired, is initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any provided the increased carrying value does not exceed that which it accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of would have been had no impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in the balance sheet category losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Intangible assets and that on associates within their carrying amounts.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture 9.
Investment property includes the carrying value of any related goodwill.
Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Property, plant and equipment depreciated but is stated at fair value based on valuations by Items of property, plant and equipment except investment property - see independent registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for Accounting policy 9 are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and similar properties in the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss impairment losses.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment arising from a change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental comprises major components having different useful lives, they are income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis accounted for separately.
over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis so as to write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment including assets owned and let on operating leases over their estimated useful lives.
