Business review  Risk and balance sheet management Introduction In this section pages 119 to 224 of the Business review certain All the disclosures in this section pages 119 to 125 are unaudited as information has been audited and is part of the Groups financial indicated by an asterisk.
Risk Management has an integral role to play statements as permitted by IFRS 7.
Other disclosures are unaudited and in the delivery of the strategic plan through the creation and management labelled with an asterisk.
Key points within this section relate to the of appropriate frameworks as illustrated below: Group before RFS Holdings minority interest RFS MI for 2009 and 2008 data.
Strategy & policy Alignment risk and business strategy Group policy framework Capital risk adjusted performance Risk architecture Operating Model Risk, finance and treasury architecture Governance Deliver 5 year plan with strong risk Risk data quality Organisation, people and culture and balance sheet management Analytics and modelling One risk community Risk information and reporting Regulatory and operational risk coverage Risk appetite and framework Credit risk approval and control Market risk limits and controls Risk concentrations Asset and product class Country risk Treasury risk management Scenario testing With the need for financial strength and resilience at the heart of this and Risk appetite in order to support the Groups stated objective of standalone strength by Risk appetite is an expression of the level of risk that the Group is 2013, the Group Board agreed in 2009 the key strategic risk objectives prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
Risk and balance which are aligned to all other elements of the plan.
These are: sheet management across the Group is based on the risk appetite approved by the Board, who will agree targets for each division and x maintain capital adequacy: regularly review and monitor the Group's performance in relation to risk.
x maintain market confidence: Risk appetite is defined in both quantitative and qualitative terms and serves as a way of tracking risk management performance in x deliver stable earnings growth: and implementing the agreed strategy.
x stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity.
x quantitative: encompassing scenario stress testing, risk concentrations, VaR, liquidity and credit related metrics, operational, These strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the Group level business risk and regulatory measures.
business strategy and the frameworks, measures and metrics which are used to set appetite and manage risk in the business divisions.
The risk x qualitative: ensuring that the Group applies the correct principles, appetite framework is aligned with business objectives, with underlying policies and procedures, manages reputational risk and develops and cascading frameworks and limits, which are described in this section.
Enhancements have been made through the year and are ongoing.
A key part of the Groups risk appetite is the macro reshaping of the balance sheet through the downsizing of Non-Core.
The Group will manage down previous concentrations in line with the strategic objectives for 2013.
This will be discharged by Non-Core but with Risk Management playing an integral role in executing the plan.
Non-Core assets and their movements are shown separately in the pages which follow.
