Additional information United States In 2010, the company converted certain non-cumulative convertible In the US the Group continues to engage constructively with regulators preference shares into ordinary shares in the company.
As a result, HM and other bodies on regulatory and legislative change and seeks to Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares reduced to 67.8%.
ensure proper implementation and compliance.
Current issues include regulatory implementation of recently enacted US financial regulatory Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in the reform legislation, mortgage and credit card lending and consumer percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's ordinary, disclosures, debit and credit card interchange fees, and account overdraft B and preference shares during the three years ended 23 February 2011. protection.
All shareholders within a class of the company's shares have the same voting rights.
Other jurisdictions The Group is active in monitoring regulatory developments in each At 23 February 2011, the directors of the company had options to country in which it operates so that internal policies are sufficient to purchase a total of 10,455,306 ordinary shares of the company.
ensure the effective management of regulatory risk.
As at 31 December 2010, almost all of the company's US$ denominated Description of property and equipment preference shares and American Depository Shares representing The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
At 31 December 2010, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 647 and shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the 1,549 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a foot print US.
of 236 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
US Retail & Material contracts Commercial had 1,525 retail banking offices including in-store branches The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Group's principal properties RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, Santander computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2010 and the Dutch State.
On 1 April 2010 the CSA was restated.
governs the relationships amongst the parties thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO now RBS Holdings N. V.. Major shareholders The CSA as restated details, inter alia, the equity interests in RFS Details of major shareholders of the companys ordinary and B shares Holdings, the governance of RFS Holdings, the arrangements for the are given on page 233. transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets and liabilities to the Dutch State previously Fortis Bank Nederland, the company and In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury Santander, further funding obligations of the Dutch State, the company HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing and Santander where funding is required by regulatory authorities in 57.92% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
During 2009, HM connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation of Core Tier 1 Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising their capital, the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs and the steps holding to 70.3% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
that the Dutch State, the company and Santander expect to take to enable the company to become the sole shareholder of RFS Holdings.
In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the company representing the entire issued B share capital.
RBS Group 2010 399 Additional information continued Material contracts continued Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement iii provide, as promptly as practicable, information and data relating Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement dated 19 January 2009 to the Proposed Assets reasonably requested for due diligence entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch International and purposes and to provide certain other information concerning the HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite qualifying shareholders to Group's business and the financial performance and risk of the apply to subscribe for new shares at the issue price of 31.75 pence per Proposed Assets: new share by way of the Second Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Lynch International were appointed as joint sponsors, joint bookrunners and iv provide access to the Group's premises, books, records, senior joint placing agents and agreed to use reasonable endeavours to procure executives, relevant personnel and professional advisers on placees to subscribe for the new shares on such terms as may be agreed reasonable terms: by the company and HM Treasury at not less than the issue price of 31.75 pence per new share on the basis that the new shares placed will v consult with HM Treasury regarding the management and be subject to clawback to the extent they are taken up under the Second operations of the Proposed Assets and to ensure that the Open Offer and iii HM Treasury agreed that, to the extent not placed or management of the Proposed Assets is in accordance with usual taken up under the Second Open Offer and subject to the terms and business practices and also without regard to the possible conditions set out in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement, HM benefits under the APS: Treasury would subscribe for such new shares itself at the issue price of 31.75 pence per new share.
vi develop and, subject to market conditions, implement a liability management plan which is designed to enable the Group to meet Pursuant to the terms of the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement, certain Core Tier 1 capital targets for 2009: and the aggregate proceeds of the Second Placing and Open Offer net of expenses were used in full to fund the redemption on Admission as vii use best endeavours giving regard to reasonable operational defined in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement of the requirements to maintain regular, adequate and effective preference shares held by HM Treasury at 101 per cent of their issue monitoring, reporting, risk management and audit controls and price 5.05 billion together with the accrued dividend on the preference procedures in order, among other things, to ensure that risks shares from and including 1 December 2008 to but excluding the Date of relating to key business processes which affect the Proposed Admission as defined in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement Assets are identified, assessed and reported and are managed and the commissions payable to HM Treasury under the Second Placing and mitigated appropriately.
In addition, the Royal Bank agreed in principle that, if and only if the HM Treasury is entitled to novate its rights under the Second Placing and Royal Bank accedes to the APS, it would not claim, and would disclaim, Open Offer Agreement to any entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, certain UK tax losses and allowances arising to members of the Group in by HM Treasury.
respect of any accounting period ending on or after 31 December 2008, provided that this undertaking would not apply in respect of any such tax Pre-accession Commitments Letter benefits arising in the earlier of a the first accounting period beginning On 26 February 2009, the Royal Bank entered into a deed poll in favour more than five years after the relevant accession date and b the first of HM Treasury, pursuant to which the Royal Bank gave a series of accounting period beginning after the relevant accession date in which undertakings on behalf of each member of the Group, with immediate the Group becomes profitable.
"effect unless otherwise agreed, in relation to the provision of information and the management of the assets, commitments and exposures the The company's commitments, described in this section have been ""Proposed Assets"" in the period prior to the Royal Bank's proposed superseded by the Scheme Rules and the Accession Agreement, for accession to and participation in the UK Government's Asset Protection details of the Accession Agreement, see below, with the exception of a Scheme APS."
commitment to inform the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills prior to making significant reductions in the level of lending being made The Royal Bank undertook to HM Treasury, among other things, to: available to certain borrowers or counterparties, which will apply until 28 February 2011, in line with the duration of the commitments under the i provide all such assistance and information and data as is Lending Commitments Letter described below.
reasonably requested which is pertinent to the implementation of the APS and the Royal Bank's potential participation in the APS: ii provide, as soon as practicable, an indicative list of the assets, commitments and exposures that the Royal Bank propose to include within the APS with a view to agreeing such list by 30 April 2009: 400 RBS Group 2010 Additional information Lending Commitments Letter B Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement On 26 February 2009, the company entered into a deed poll in favour of On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the certain UK Government departments under which it undertook to support Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM lending to creditworthy borrowers in the UK in a commercial manner with Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares and the Dividend Access effect from 1 March 2009.
"On 18 May 2009, the company entered into an Share the ""Acquisitions"" and agreed the terms of HM Treasury's amendment to this deed poll which took effect from 29 May 2009 and on subscription for an additional 8 billion in aggregate in the form of further 20 November 2009, the company executed a further amendment to this B shares the ""Contingent B shares"", which will be issued on the same deed poll."
This lending commitment was a pre-requisite to the company's terms as the initial B shares.
The Acquisitions were subject to the participation in the APS and other Government backed schemes, the satisfaction of various conditions, including the company having obtained objective of which was to reinforce the stability of the financial system the approval of its shareholders in relation to the Acquisitions.
and support the recovery of the economy.
The company and HM Treasury further agreed the terms of the 8 billion Pursuant to this lending commitment, the company agreed to increase its Contingent Subscription of the Contingent B shares in the Acquisition and lending in the 12 months commencing 1 March 2009 from its UK banking Contingent Capital Agreement.
For a period of five years from 22 operations to UK businesses by, in aggregate, 16 billion above the December 2009 or, if earlier, until the occurrence of a termination event amount previously budgeted.
"or until the company decides with FSA consent to terminate such Contingent Subscription the ""Contingent Period"", if the Core Tier 1 ratio The company also made a commitment to increase lending to of the company falls below five per cent and if certain other conditions homeowners, including first time buyers, in the United Kingdom."
The are met HM Treasury has committed to subscribe for the Contingent B company undertook to increase its residential mortgage lending by at shares in no fewer than two tranches of 6 billion and 2 billion or such least 9 billion above the amount previously budgeted in the 12 months smaller amounts as the company and HM Treasury may agree.
Any commencing 1 March 2009. unused portion of the 8 billion may be subscribed in one or more further tranches.
Such additional lending was subject to the company's ordinary course pricing and other terms, and certain commercial, risk, credit and The company may, subject to certain conditions, at any time terminate regulatory considerations.
the Contingent Subscription in whole or in part, with the consent of the FSA.
The company is required to pay an annual fee, for the Contingent The company's compliance with its lending commitments is monitored by Period, in relation to the Acquisitions and the Contingent Subscription of the UK Government, and is subject to a reporting process.
320 million less four per cent per annum of the value of any B shares subscribed for under the Contingent Subscription.
Such fee is payable in The company also made certain undertakings as regards marketing in cash or, with HM Treasury's consent, by waiving certain UK tax reliefs support of its lending commitments and certain other matters relating to that are treated as deferred tax assets or through a further issue of B its business and residential lending practices and policies.
The lending shares to HM Treasury.
The annual fee ceases to be payable on commitments made in the deed poll supersede the commitments given termination of the Contingent Subscription and if the company terminates by the company in the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement and the the Contingent Subscription in part, the fee will reduce proportionately.
Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
The company gave certain representations and warranties to HM On 23 March 2010, the company agreed with the UK government certain Treasury on the date of the Acquisition and Contingent Capital adjustments to the above lending commitments for the 2010 commitment Agreement, on the date the circular was posted to shareholders, on the period the 12 month period commencing 1 March 2010, to reflect first date on which all of the conditions precedent were satisfied, or expected economic circumstances over the period.
As part of the waived, and on the date of the Acquisitions.
The company has agreed to amended lending commitments, the company has committed, among give such representations and warranties again on each date if any a other things, to make available gross new facilities, drawn or undrawn, of Contingent Subscription is triggered and on each date if any on which B 50 billion to UK businesses in the period 1 March 2010 to 28 February shares are issued pursuant to a Contingent Subscription.
In addition, the company has agreed with the UK government to make available 8 billion of net mortgage lending in the 2010 The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for its expenses incurred commitment period.
This is a decrease of 1 billion on the net mortgage in connection with the Acquisitions and agreed to do so in connection lending target that previously applied to the 2010 commitment period with the Contingent B shares, if the Contingent Subscription is exercised.
which ends on 28 February 2011, to reflect that the mortgage lending commitment for the 2009 commitment period was increased from 9 The company agreed to a number of undertakings, including with respect billion to 10 billion.
to: i restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions on, and the redemption of, certain securities: ii expectations regarding the repurchase of the B shares by the company: iii renegotiations of the terms of the Contingent Subscription as a result of future legislative or regulatory changes: iv negotiating in good faith to maintain the status of the B shares and Dividend Access Share as Core Tier 1 capital: and v restrictions in relation to the company's share premium account.
RBS Group 2010 401 Additional information continued Material contracts continued Protection under the APS is, subject to various requirements under the HM Treasury has agreed to waive its statutory pre-emption rights arising Scheme Conditions, provided in respect of the Covered Assets on the out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share in respect of any company's consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2008 with an future issue of equity securities by the company other than B shares and aggregate covered amount of 282 billion.
Protection under the APS may has agreed to vote its B shares and the Dividend Access Share, as be lost or limited in certain specified circumstances, including the failure applicable, in favour of each special resolution to disapply its preof a Covered Asset to satisfy certain asset eligibility criteria set out in the emption rights under the B shares and or the Dividend Access Share Scheme Conditions.
then held by HM Treasury every time they arise.
The pre-emption rights arising out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share have also During the life of the APS, the company will pay HM Treasury a nonbeen disapplied in the Articles of Association.
refundable annual fee payable in advance of 700 million per annum for the first three years of the APS and 500 million per annum until the HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to exercise its option earlier of i the date of termination of the APS and ii 31 December 2099. to convert B shares into ordinary shares to the extent that it holds more The annual fee can, subject to HM Treasury's consent, be paid wholly or than 75 per cent of the ordinary shares of the company or to the extent partly by means of the waiver of certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as that the exercise of such option would result in it holding more than 75 deferred tax assets or funded by the issuance of additional B shares to per cent of the ordinary shares of the company.
HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to vote the B shares The company has the right, in certain circumstances, to withdraw from or the Dividend Access Share to the extent that votes cast on such B the APS permanently all or part of a Covered Asset.
In addition, the shares and the Dividend Access Share, together with any other votes company contractually has the right to terminate the APS exercisable at which HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any other ordinary any time provided that the FSA has confirmed in writing to HM Treasury shares held by or on behalf of HM Treasury, would exceed 75 per cent of that it has no objection to the proposed termination.
An exit fee and, the total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution proposed at a general potentially, a refund of HM Treasury's net payments under the APS are meeting of the company.
payable by the company upon such termination.
The Scheme Conditions also contain various provisions and restrictions on the management and For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of the company within the administration of the Covered Assets and certain related assets.
The meaning of the UKLA's Listing Rules, HM Treasury has undertaken not company is obliged to manage such assets in accordance with the asset to vote on related party transaction resolutions at general meetings and management objective, which is to maximise the expected net present to direct that its affiliates do not so vote.
value of such assets discounted at an HM Treasury rate, including by minimising losses and potential losses and maximising recoveries and Accession Agreement and the UK Asset Protection Scheme Terms and potential recoveries.
"The company also has monitoring and reporting Conditions obligations under the Scheme Conditions which are aimed at The company acceded to the APS through an accession agreement the transparency in respect of the Covered Assets to enable HM Treasury to ""Accession Agreement"" entered into with HM Treasury, which became manage and assess its exposure under the APS."
In addition, the effective on 22 December 2009.
Supplemental agreements were signed company has to establish a separate governance structure for the on 27 August 2010, 20 December 2010 and 10 February 2011.
Further, the Scheme Conditions and the Accession Accession Agreement incorporates the terms and conditions of the APS Agreement also contain requirements for the development of a set out in the document entitled UK Asset Protection Scheme Terms and remuneration policy for the Group and specific remuneration Conditions which is available on HM Treasury's website the Scheme requirements for certain officers and employees of the company.
The Accession Agreement which incorporates the Scheme Conditions is accounted for as a credit derivative and it tailors the APS to HM Treasury has the right to appoint one or more step-in managers to the company by, amongst other things, setting applicable bank-specific exercise extensive step-in rights in relation to all or some of the Covered thresholds and addressing a limited number of other bank-specific Assets upon the occurrence of certain specified trigger events.
"Certain Scheme Conditions are subject to modification at any time with Under the APS, HM Treasury is liable to make payments to the company retrospective effect at the discretion of HM Treasury without the in respect of a pre-defined pool of assets and exposures the ""Covered company's consent."
"The modification rights arise broadly and subject to Assets"" in respect of which a specified failure to pay, bankruptcy or certain conditions where the operation, interpretation or application of restructuring trigger occurs or is deemed to occur."
Payments under the such Scheme Conditions conflicts with any of the overriding general APS are intended to protect the company, over time, for 90% of the principles set out in the Scheme Conditions.
amount by which cumulative losses on the whole portfolio of Covered Assets as reduced by cumulative recoveries on the portfolio exceed a There are material restrictions on the form and substance of fixed first loss threshold of 60 billion.
Cumulative losses as reduced by announcements or public statements including any required by law or cumulative recoveries below the first loss threshold, and a 10% vertical the rules of any securities exchange made by the Group in relation to the slice of any cumulative losses as reduced by cumulative recoveries APS or to HM Treasury in connection with the APS without HM exceeding the first loss threshold, are for the account of the company.
402 RBS Group 2010 Additional information State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed In connection with its participation in the APS, the company has agreed Under the State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, the Group has agreed to a number of behavioural commitments in respect of lending for to reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with businesses in the UK, personal current accounts in the UK as well as to the State Aid and State Aid approval.
develop and implement a capital optimisation exercise designed to increase the Groups Core Tier 1 capital.
Sale of RBS England and Wales and NatWest Scotland branch based business to Santander UK plc The Tax Loss Waiver On 4 August 2010, the Royal Bank, NatWest Plc and National On 26 November 2009, the company entered into three agreements Westminster Home Loans Limited entered into a Sale and Purchase together comprising the Tax Loss Waiver which provide the right, at the Agreement with Santander UK plc pursuant to which the Royal Bank, companys option, subject to HM Treasury consent, to satisfy all or part of NatWest Plc and National Westminster Home Loans Limited agreed to the annual fee in respect of the APS or the Contingent Subscription sell 311 Royal Bank of Scotland branded branches in England and Wales, arrangement, and the exit fee payable in connection with any termination seven NatWest branded branches in Scotland, the retail and SME of the Groups participation in the APS but not the refund of the net customer accounts attached to these branches, the Direct SME business, payments it has received from HM Treasury under the APS, by waiving and certain mid-corporate businesses and associated assets and the entitlement to certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax liabilities to Santander UK plc for a premium of 350 million to net assets assets.
The Tax Loss Waiver contains undertakings designed to prevent at closing.
The consideration will be paid in cash and is subject to certain the Group from engaging in arrangements which have a main purpose of closing adjustments, including those relating to the performance of the reducing the net cost to the Group of any waiver of tax reliefs pursuant to business.
The transaction is subject to regulatory, anti-trust and other the Tax Loss Waiver.
State Aid Commitment Deed RBS Sempra Commodities JV sales As a result of the State Aid granted to the company, it was required to On 16 February 2010, the Group announced that RBS Sempra work with HM Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan to the Commodities JV, a joint venture owned by the Royal Bank and Sempra European Commission, which has now been approved under the State Energy, had agreed to sell to J. P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation Aid rules.
The company has agreed a series of measures to be JPMorgan its metals, oils and European energy business lines.
The implemented over a four year period, which supplement the measures in Group announced completion of the transaction on 2 July 2010, for a total the company's strategic plan.
cash consideration of US$1.6 billion, post interim distributions of which the company's share is approximately 47 per cent.
The Group entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury which provides that the Group will comply or procure compliance with On 20 September 2010, the Group announced that RBS Sempra these measures and behavioural commitments.
The Group agreed to do Commodities JV had agreed to sell its Sempra Energy Solutions all acts and things necessary to ensure HM Treasury's compliance with business line to Noble Americas Gas & Power Corp. for consideration of its obligations under any European Commission decision approving State approximately US$317 million in cash, plus the assumption of Aid to the Group.
approximately US$265 million in debt.
The Groups share of the consideration is approximately 51 per cent, or US$162 million.
The The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides that if the European transaction closed on 1 November 2010.
"Commission adopts a decision that the UK Government must recover any State Aid a ""Repayment Decision"" and the recovery order of the On 7 October 2010, the Group announced that RBS Sempra Repayment Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the Court of Commodities JV had agreed to sell substantial assets of its commodities First Instance or the European Court of Justice, then the Group must trading North American Power and Gas business lines to JPMorgan."
The repay HM Treasury any aid ordered to be recovered under the transaction closed on 1 December 2010 and JPMorgan acquired these Repayment Decision.
net assets for consideration of US$220 million in cash based on the 30 June 2010 balance sheet, of which the Groups share is approximately 51 The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides for the Group's per cent, i. e. US$112 million.
The value of the gross assets acquired by undertakings in respect of State Aid to be modified in certain limited JPMorgan was US$6 billion unaudited as of 30 June 2010. circumstances.
However, HM Treasury has undertaken that it will not, without the consent of the Group, agree modifications to the Group's undertakings with respect to State Aid which are significantly more onerous to the Group than those granted in order to obtain the State Aid approval.
RBS Group 2010 403 Additional information continued Material contracts continued Sale of Global Merchant Services business The Royal Bank, in its capacity as holder of a retained interest in the On 6 August 2010, the Royal Bank, Citizens Financial Group, Inc. RBS Global Merchant Services business, also entered into an Investment Netherlands Holdings B. V. Ulster Bank Limited, Ulster Bank Ireland Agreement on 6 August 2010 subsequently amended and restated on 29 Limited, NatWest Plc and Ship Bidco Limited a company representing November 2010 with Ship Bidco Limited now WorldPay UK Limited, Advent International Advent and Bain Capital Bain which has now certain other acquisition vehicles, specified management and funds changed its name to WorldPay UK Limited entered into a Transfer operated by Advent International and Bain Capital relating to the Agreement pursuant to which the Royal Bank either directly or through operations of the joint venture company which is the uppermost of the its group companies sold 80.01 per cent of its Global Merchant Services intermediate acquisition vehicles and the ultimate parent company of business for an enterprise value of up to 2.025 billion.
The interests of the Royal Bank are insufficient to 1.45 billion subject to customary post-closing adjustments was block major decisions of this joint venture company at the shareholder or received in cash on closing of the sale of the 80.01 per cent interest.
to 200 million is receivable in the future if the returns realised by Advent and Bain exceed certain thresholds.
The sale completed on 30 November 2010.
