Provisions Held-to-maturity investments - a financial asset may be classified as a The Group recognises a provision for a present obligation resulting from held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive intention and ability to transfer economic benefits to settle the obligation and the amount of the hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recognised at obligation can be estimated reliably.
fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
redundancy, when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the Held-for-trading - a financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it is restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected by acquired principally for sale in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying If the Group has a contract that is onerous, it recognises the present hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial assets are recognised at obligation under the contract as a provision.
An onerous contract is one fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss.
where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under it exceed Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on heldthe expected economic benefits.
When the Group vacates a leasehold for-trading financial assets are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
property, a provision is recognised for the costs under the lease less any expected economic benefits such as rental income.
Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial assets may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such designation Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, financial present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised liabilities or both, that the Group manages and evaluates on a fair value because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an embedded amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host contract.
liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement is Financial assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as being remote.
at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently 14.
Tax measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial assets that are Provision is made for tax at current enacted rates on taxable profits, designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit arising in income or in equity, taking into account relief for overseas tax or loss as they arise.
Deferred tax is accounted for in full for all temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability for In 2009 and 2008, financial assets designated as at fair value through accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes, except in profit or loss included policyholders' assets underpinning insurance and relation to overseas earnings where remittance is controlled by the Group, investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance businesses.
Fair value designation significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency that would arise if these assets were classified as Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable available-for-sale.
that they will be recovered.
Loans and receivables - non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 15.
Financial assets determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as investments: available-for-sale financial assets: held-for-trading: available-for-sale or as held-for-trading, or designated as at fair value designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
