Basis of consolidation The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis see page 232 of The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial the Report of the directors and in accordance with International Financial statements of the company and entities including certain special purpose Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards entities that are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity: Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB as adopted by generally conferred by holding a majority of voting rights.
On acquisition the European Union EU together IFRS.
The EU has not adopted the of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities complete text of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and are included in the consolidated accounts at their fair value.
Any excess Measurement: it has relaxed some of the standard's hedging of the cost the fair value of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed requirements.
The Group has not taken advantage of this relaxation and and equity instruments issued by the Group plus any directly attributable has adopted IAS 39 as issued by the IASB: the Group's financial costs of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at their share of the fair value of the subsidiary's net assets.
The Group has adopted the revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and related revisions to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated Statements issued in January 2008 and also IFRIC 17 Distributions of income statement from the date control passes up until the Group ceases Non-cash Assets to Owners and the IASBs consequential amendments to control them through a sale or significant change in circumstances.
to IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Changes in interest that do not result in a loss of control are recognised Operations issued in December 2008.
They apply to transactions on or in equity.
after 1 January 2010 and have not resulted in the restatement of previously published financial information.
There have been no material All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are acquisitions in the year.
In accordance with IFRS 5, before and after the eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are prepared amendment, the Dutch retail and other banking businesses that were using uniform accounting policies.
transferred to the Dutch State on 1 April 2010 have been recognised as 3.
Revenue recognition discontinued operations with consequent changes to the presentation of Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and comparative financial information.
receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and interest expense on financial liabilities other than those at fair value through profit or loss are There are a number of other changes to IFRS that were effective from 1 determined using the effective interest method.
They have had no material effect on the Groups financial method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset statements: in April 2009, Improvements to IFRS - making non-urgent or financial liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of but necessary amendments to standards, primarily to remove allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life inconsistencies and to clarify wording: and amendments to IAS 39 of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - limited changes discounts estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying to IAS 39 issued in July 2008 clarified that a a one-sided risk can be amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees designated as a hedged risk i. e. an option can be used to hedge a risk payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, above or below a specified threshold and b inflation can be a hedged premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and risk but only if the cash flows include a specified inflation portion.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the Financial assets and financial liabilities held-for-trading or designated as following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value.
Changes in financial instruments, held-for-trading financial assets and financial fair value are recognised in profit or loss together with dividends and liabilities, financial assets and financial liabilities that are designated as at interest receivable and payable.
fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and investment property.
Recognised financial assets and financial liabilities Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a percentage of the in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair value in respect of outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will the risk that is hedged.
be entered into, such fees are taken to profit or loss over the life of the facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective interest The company accounts are presented in accordance with the Companies rate on the advance.
Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed and always determinable.
The application of this policy to significant fee types is outlined below.
