Business review continued Balance sheet management Group Treasury in conjunction with the divisions and Risk Management, All the disclosures in this section pages 126 to 145 are audited unless in respect of risk-weighted assets RWAs, manage and control the otherwise indicated by an asterisk.
Groups balance sheet risks and consequent impact on the Groups capital, funding, liquidity, interest rate and currency risks.
Capital It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base and to utilise it The FSA uses risk asset ratio RAR as a measure of capital adequacy in efficiently throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders, the UK banking sector, comparing a banks capital resources with its while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the RWAs the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are weighted to underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this policy, the Group has reflect the inherent credit and other risks : by international agreement the regard to the supervisory requirements of the FSA.
RAR should be not less than 8% with a Tier 1 component of not less than 4%.
The budgeting process considers risk appetite, available changes.
capital resources, stress testing results and business strategy.
The budget is agreed by the Board and allocated to divisions to manage their x Market risk increased by 15.0 billion during the year principally due allocated RWAs.
Group Treasury and GALCO monitor available capital and its utilisation x The reduction in APS RWA relief relates to the run-off of covered across divisions.
GALCO makes the necessary decisions around assets.
reallocation of budget and changes in RWA allocations.
x The benefit of the APS to the Core Tier 1 ratio is 1.2% at 31 Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP December 2010 2009 - 1.6%.
In addition to the calculation of minimum capital requirements for credit, market and operational risk, banks are required to undertake an ICAAP x In May 2010, the Group concluded a series of exchange and tender for other risks.
The Groups ICAAP, in particular, focuses on pension fund offers with the holders of a number of Tier 1 and upper Tier 2 risk, interest rate risk in the banking book together with stress tests to securities.
As a result of the exchange and tender offers, the Group assess the adequacy of capital over one year and the economic cycle.
realised an aggregate post-tax gain of 1.2 billion, which increased the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio by approximately 0.3% and Pillar 3 resulted in a reduction in the Groups Total Tier 1 capital ratio of The Group publishes its Pillar 3 Market disclosures on its website, approximately 0.5%.
providing a range of additional information relating to Basel II and risk and capital management across the Group.
The disclosures focus on x During the year the Group increased Core Tier 1 capital by 0.8 capital resources and adequacy, discuss a range of credit risk billion through the issue of ordinary shares on the conversion of approaches and their associated RWAs under various Basel II sterling and US dollar non-cumulative convertible preference shares.
approaches such as credit risk mitigation, counterparty credit risk and provisions.
Detailed disclosures are also made on equity, securitisation, operational and market risk, and interest rate risk in the banking book.
