Additional information Supervision strength for its US bank subsidiaries.
Among other things, this source of United Kingdom strength obligation could require the Group to inject capital into any of its The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is the consolidated supervisor US bank subsidiaries if any of them became undercapitalised.
As at 31 December 2010, 30 companies in the Group excluding subsidiaries of RBS NV, spanning a range of financial Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions services sectors banking, insurance and investment business, were regulations are a major focus of the US government for financial authorised to conduct financial activities regulated by the FSA.
institutions and are rigorously enforced by US government agencies.
The UK authorised banks in the Group include the Royal Bank, NatWest, The Group's US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and the Royal Bank's Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Limited.
Wholesale activities, other than US branches are also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety Group Treasury activities, are concentrated in the Group's Global of other US regulatory agencies.
RBS Citizens NA is supervised by the Banking & Markets and UK Corporate divisions, and are undertaken Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the under the names of the Royal Bank and NatWest.
UK retail banking regulation and supervision of nationally chartered banks.
Citizens Bank of activities are managed by the UK Retail division.
The exception is Ulster Pennsylvania is subject to the regulation and supervision of the US Bank Limited, which is run as a separate division within the Group.
Ulster Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Pennsylvania Department Bank Group moved to a single brand in the Republic of Ireland during of Banking and Insurance.
Citizens Financial Group is under the 2010, with First Active merging with Ulster Bank.
Ulster Bank Limited supervision of the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company.
The provides banking services in Northern Ireland while the banking service in Royal Bank's New York branch is supervised by the New York State the Republic of Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Limited, which Banking Department, and its Connecticut branch is supervised by the is primarily supervised by the Central Bank of Ireland.
Both branches are also subject to supervisory oversight by the Federal Reserve, through the Federal Investment management business is principally undertaken by Reserve Bank of Boston.
companies in the Wealth Management division, including Coutts & Co, Adam & Company Investment Management Limited, and in the Global The Group's US broker dealer, RBS Securities Inc. RBSSI, formerly Banking & Markets division, through RBS Asset Management Limited.
known as Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is subject to regulation and supervision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and General insurance business is principally undertaken by Direct Line the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA with respect to its Insurance plc and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.
The futures activities of RBSSI are subject to regulation and oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on Commission CFTC and the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT.
The financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and Group's US commodities business, RBS Sempra Commodities LLP and controls to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to which its subsidiaries, which was largely sold in 2010, are primarily regulated by they are subject.
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission United States CFTC, the CME Group-owned exchanges, and The Intercontinental The Group is both a bank holding company and a financial holding Exchange.
company within the meaning of the US Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
As such, it is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Board Netherlands of Governors of the Federal Reserve System the Federal Reserve.
The consolidated supervisor of RBS NV is the Dutch Central Bank, fide Among other things, the Group's direct and indirect activities and Nederlandsche Bank DNB.
The DNB operates as prudential supervisor investments in the United States are limited to those that are 'financial in of banks, insurance companies and pension funds, and also as part of nature' or 'incidental' or 'complementary' to a financial activity, as the European System of Central Banks.
determined by the Federal Reserve.
The Group is also required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring directly or Other jurisdictions indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the The Group operates in over 50 countries through a network of branches, voting shares of any US bank or holding company.
Under current Federal local banks and non-bank subsidiaries and these activities are subject to Reserve policy, the Group is required to act as a source of financial supervision in most cases by a local regulator or central bank.
