"Financial statements In the event that the non-cumulative convertible preference shares are instruments from 30 April 2010 for a period of two years thereafter ""the not redeemed on or before the redemption date, the holder may convert Deferral Period"", or exercise any call rights in relation to these capital them into ordinary shares in the company at the prevailing market price."
instruments between 24 November 2009 and the end of the Deferral Period, unless there is a legal obligation to do so.
Hybrid capital Under existing arrangements, no redemption or purchase of any noninstruments issued after 24 November 2009 will generally not be subject cumulative preference shares may be made by the company without the to the restriction on dividend or coupon payments or call options.
prior consent of the UK Financial Services Authority.
30 Reserves On a winding-up or liquidation of the company, the holders of the nonOn 1 January 2008, the merger reserve comprised the premium on cumulative preference shares will be entitled to receive, out of any shares issued to acquire NatWest less goodwill amortisation charged surplus assets available for distribution to the company's shareholders under previous GAAP.
No share premium was recorded in the company after payment of arrears of dividends on the cumulative preference financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions shares up to the date of repayment pari passu with the cumulative of the Companies Act 1985. preference shares and all other shares of the company ranking pari passu with the non-cumulative preference shares as regards participation UK law prescribes that only the reserves of the company are taken into in the surplus assets of the company, a liquidation distribution per share account for the purpose of making distributions and in determining the equal to the applicable redemption price detailed in the table above, permissible applications of the share premium account.
together with an amount equal to dividends for the then current dividend period accrued to the date of payment, before any distribution or payment The Group optimises capital efficiency by maintaining reserves in may be made to holders of the ordinary shares as regards participation in subsidiaries, including regulated entities.
Certain preference shares and subordinated debt are also included within regulatory capital.
The the surplus assets of the company.
remittance of reserves to the company or the redemption of shares or Except as described above, the holders of the non-cumulative preference subordinated capital by regulated entities may be subject to maintaining shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of the company.
the capital resources required by the relevant regulator.
Holders of the non-cumulative preference shares are not entitled to Paid-in equity represents notes issued under the company's euro medium receive notice of or attend general meetings of the company except if any term note programme with an initial par value of US$1,600 million and resolution is proposed for adoption by the shareholders of the company CAD600 million that are classified as equity under IFRS.
The notes to vary or abrogate any of the rights attaching to the non-cumulative attract coupons of 6.99% and 6.666% respectively until October 2017 when they change to 2.67% above the London interbank offered rate for preference shares or proposing the winding-up or liquidation of the company.
In any such case, they are entitled to receive notice of and to 3-month US dollar deposits and 2.76% above the Canadian dollar offered attend the general meeting of shareholders at which such resolution is to rate respectively.
Paid-in equity of US$1,036 million was repurchased in be proposed and are entitled to speak and vote on such resolution but April 2009 and CAD279 million was repurchased in May 2010 as part of not on any other resolution.
In addition, in the event that, prior to any the liability management exercises.
general meeting of shareholders, the company has failed to pay in full the three most recent quarterly dividend payments due on the nonUnder the arrangements for the placing and open offer in December 2008, cumulative dollar preference shares other than Series U, the two most the company issued shares in exchange for shares in Encuentro Limited.
recent semi-annual dividend payments due on the non-cumulative No share premium was recorded in the company financial statements convertible dollar preference shares and the most recent dividend through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies payments due on the non-cumulative euro preference shares, the nonAct 2006.
The subsequent redemption of these shares gave rise to cumulative sterling preference shares, the Series U non-cumulative dollar distributable profits of 14,273 million which were transferred from preference shares and the non-cumulative convertible sterling preference merger reserve to retained earnings.
shares, the holders shall be entitled to receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at such meeting on all matters together with the holders of the Under the arrangements for accession to APS in December 2009, the ordinary shares.
In these circumstances only, the rights of the holders of company issued B shares in exchange for shares in Aonach Mor Limited.
the non-cumulative preference shares so to vote shall continue until the No share premium was recorded in the company financial statements company shall have resumed the payment in full of the dividends in through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies arrears.
The subsequent redemption of some of these shares gave rise to distributable profits of 12,250 million 2009 - 9,950 million which The Group has undertaken that, unless otherwise agreed with the were transferred from merger reserve to retained earnings.
European Commission, neither the company nor any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries excluding companies in the RBS Holdings N. V. At 31 December 2010, 1,717,095,004 2009 - 138,695,912 ordinary Group, which are subject to different restrictions will pay external shares of 25p each of the company were held by Employee Share Trusts investors any dividends or coupons on existing hybrid capital instruments in respect of share awards and options granted to employees.
including preference shares, B shares and upper and lower tier 2 RBS Group 2010 361
