Notes on the accounts continued 34 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Group's expectation of future losses.
Group More than More than 1year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1year 3years 5years 5 years 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m m m Contingent liabilities Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 20,044 5,220 2,178 3,659 31,101 40,008 49,262 Other contingent liabilities 6,058 2,877 1,235 2,084 12,254 14,012 22,275 26,102 8,097 3,413 5,743 43,355 54,020 71,537 Commitments Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend - less than one year 117,581 117,581 127,423 166,572 - one year and over 22,258 80,267 26,931 19,785 149,241 164,211 185,826 Other commitments 1,623 161 2,366 4 4,154 6,007 9,326 141,462 80,428 29,297 19,789 270,976 297,641 361,724 Commitments Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have been Commitments to lend - under a loan commitment the Group agrees to entered into on behalf of customers and for which there are make funds available to a customer in the future.
Loan commitments, corresponding obligations from customers, are not included in assets and which are usually for a specified term may be unconditionally cancellable liabilities.
The Group's maximum exposure to credit loss, in the event of or may persist, provided all conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or non-performance by the other party and where all counterclaims, waived.
Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and collateral or security proves valueless, is represented by the contractual credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits and unutilised nominal amount of these instruments included in the table above.
commitments and contingent obligations are subject to the Group's normal credit approval processes.
Other commitments - these include documentary credits, which are Contingent liabilities commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a Guarantees - the Group gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A named beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, forward financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group asset purchases, forward deposits placed and undrawn note issuance will meet a customer's obligations to third parties if the customer fails to and revolving underwriting facilities, and other short-term trade related do so.
The maximum amount that the Group could be required to pay transactions.
under a guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
Other contingent liabilities - these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
366 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements Contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts The following table shows contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts at the year end.
Group 2010 2009 2008 m m m Operating leases Minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases 1 - within 1 year 497 479 579 - after 1 year but within 5 years 1,515 1,691 1,727 - after 5 years 2,892 3,055 3,299 4,904 5,225 5,605 Property, plant and equipment Contracts to buy, enhance or maintain investment properties 2 7 Contracts to buy assets to be leased under operating leases 2 2,585 2,724 6,063 Other capital expenditure 150 89 128 2,737 2,813 6,198 Contracts to purchase goods or services 3 397 665 2,127 8,038 8,703 13,930 Notes: 1 Predominantly property leases.
Trustee and other fiduciary activities The FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund the compensation In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may hold or costs associated with Bradford & Bingley, Heritable Bank, Kaupthing place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, pension Singer & Friedlander, Landsbanki Icesave and London Scottish Bank plc.
The assets and their income are not included in the These borrowings are on an interest-only basis until 31 March 2012.
The Group's financial statements.
The Group earned fee income of 629 annual limit on the FSCS interest and management expenses levy for the million 2009 - 1,355 million: 2008 - 1,442 million from these activities.
period September 2008 to March 2012 in relation to these institutions has been capped at 1 billion per annum.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's The FSCS will receive funds from asset sales, surplus cash flow, or other statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services recoveries in relation to these institutions which will be used to reduce the firms, pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The principal amount of the FSCS's borrowings.
After the interest only period FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising management a schedule for repayment of any outstanding borrowings will be agreed expenses levies and compensation levies on the industry.
In relation to between the FSCS and HM Treasury in the light of market conditions at protected deposits, each deposit-taking institution contributes towards that time and the FSCS will begin to raise compensation levies principal these levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 repayments.
No provision has been made for these levies as the amount December of the year preceding the scheme year which runs from 1 is not yet known.
April to 31 March, subject to annual maxima set by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
In addition, the FSCS has the power to raise The Group has accrued 144 million for its share of FSCS management levies exit levies on firms who have ceased to participate in the expenses levies for the 2010 11 and 2011 12 scheme years.
scheme and are in the process of ceasing to be authorised for the amount that the firm would otherwise have been asked to pay during the relevant levy year.
The FSCS also has the power to raise exit levies on such firms which look at their potential liability to pay levies in future years.
RBS Group 2010 367 Notes on the accounts continued Unarranged overdraft charges 34 Memorandum items continued In the US, Citizens Financial Group, in common with other US banks, has Bank levy been named as a defendant in a class action asserting that Citizens In his 22 June 2010 budget statement, the Chancellor announced that the charges excessive overdraft fees.
The plaintiffs claim that overdraft fees UK Government will introduce an annual bank levy.
The Finance Bill resulting from point of sale and automated teller machine ATM 2011 contains details of how the levy will be calculated and collected.
transactions violate the duty of good faith implied in Citizens customer The levy will be collected through the existing quarterly Corporation Tax account agreement and constitute an unfair trade practice.
RBS Group collection mechanism starting with payment dates on or after the date the considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual defences Finance Bill 2011 receives Royal Assent.
to these claims and will defend them vigorously.
RBS Group is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that might arise or its effect on RBS The levy will be based upon the total chargeable equity and liabilities as Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any reported in the balance sheet at the end of a chargeable period.
determining the chargeable equity and liabilities the following amounts are excluded: Tier 1 capital: certain protected deposits for example Shareholder litigation those protected under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme : RBS Group and a number of its subsidiaries and certain individual liabilities that arise from certain insurance business within banking groups: officers and directors have been named as defendants in a class action liabilities in respect of currency notes in circulation: Financial Services filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New Compensation Scheme liabilities: liabilities representing segregated client York.
The consolidated amended complaint alleges certain false and money: and deferred tax liabilities, current tax liabilities, liabilities in misleading statements and omissions in public filings and other respect of the levy, revaluation of property liabilities, liabilities communications during the period 1 March 2007 to 19 January 2009, and representing the revaluation of business premises and defined benefit variously asserts claims under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the US retirement liabilities.
It will also be permitted in specified circumstances to Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10 and 20 of the US Securities reduce certain liabilities by: netting against them certain assets: offsetting Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
assets on the relevant balance sheets that would qualify as high quality liquid assets in accordance with the FSA definition : and repo liabilities The putative class is composed of 1 all persons who purchased or secured against sovereign and supranational debt.
otherwise acquired RBS Group ordinary securities and US American depositary receipts ADRs between 1 March 2007 and 19 January 2009: The levy will be set at a rate of 0.075 per cent from 2011.
Three different and or 2 all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired RBS Group rates apply during 2011, these average to 0.075 per cent.
Certain Series Q, R, S, T and or U non-cumulative dollar preference shares liabilities will be subject to only a half rate, namely: any deposits not issued pursuant or traceable to the 8 April 2005 US Securities and otherwise excluded except for those from financial institutions and Exchange Commission SEC registration statement and were damaged financial traders : and liabilities with a maturity greater than one year at thereby.
Plaintiffs seek unquantified damages on behalf of the putative the balance sheet date.
The levy will not be charged on the first 20 class.
On 11 January 2011, the District Court dismissed all claims except those If the levy had been applied to the balance sheet at 31 December 2010, based on the purchase of RBS Group Series Q, R, S, T, and or U nonthe cost of the levy to RBS Group would be in the region of 350 million cumulative dollar preference shares.
The Court has not yet considered to 400 million in 2011. potential grounds for dismissal of the remaining claims, and directed RBS Group to re-file its motion to dismiss those claims within 45 days of its Litigation ruling.
On 28 January 2011, a new complaint was filed asserting claims As a participant in the financial services industry, RBS Group operates in under Sections 10 and 20 of the Exchange Act on behalf of a putative a legal and regulatory environment that exposes it to potentially class of purchasers of ADRs.
As a result, the company and other members of RBS Group are involved in various disputes and legal proceedings in the RBS Group has also received notification of similar prospective claims in United Kingdom, the United States and other jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom and elsewhere but no court proceedings have been litigation.
Such cases are subject to many uncertainties, and their commenced in relation to these claims.
outcome is often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier stages of a case.
RBS Group considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual defences to the remaining and prospective claims and will defend Other than as set out in this section Litigation, so far as RBS Group is them vigorously.
RBS Group is unable to reliably estimate the liability, if aware, no member of RBS Group is or has been engaged in or has any, that might arise or its effect on RBS Groups consolidated net assets, pending or threatened any governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
which may have or have had in the recent past covering the 12 months immediately preceding the date of this document a significant effect on RBS Groups financial position or profitability.
368 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements Other securitisation and securities related litigation in the United States Investigations RBS Group companies have been named as defendants in a number of RBS Groups businesses and financial condition can be affected by the purported class actions and other lawsuits in the United States that relate fiscal or other policies and other actions of various governmental and to the securitisation and securities underwriting businesses.
In general, regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union, the the cases involve the issuance of mortgage backed securities, United States and elsewhere.
RBS Group has engaged, and will continue collateralised debt obligations, or public debt or equity where the plaintiffs to engage, in discussions with relevant regulators, including in the United have brought actions against the issuers and underwriters of such Kingdom and the United States, on an ongoing and regular basis securities including RBS Group companies claiming that certain regarding operational, systems and control evaluations and issues, disclosures made in connection with the relevant offerings of such including those related to compliance with applicable anti-bribery, antisecurities were false or misleading with respect to alleged sub-prime money laundering and applicable sanctions regimes.
It is possible that mortgage exposure.
RBS Group considers that it has substantial and any matters discussed or identified may result in investigatory or other credible legal and factual defences to these claims and will continue to action being taken by the regulators, increased costs being incurred by defend them vigorously.
RBS Group cannot at this stage reliably estimate RBS Group, remediation of systems and controls, public or private the liability, if any, that may arise as a result of or in connection with these censure, restriction of RBS Groups business activities or fines.
Any of lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, or their effect on RBS Groups these events or circumstances could have a significant effect on RBS consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular Group, its business, authorisations and licences, reputation, results of period.
operations or the price of securities issued by it.
World Online International N. V. Political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of retail banking and In November 2009, the Supreme Court in the Netherlands gave a consumer credit industries in the United Kingdom and elsewhere declaratory judgment against World Online International N. V. Goldman continues.
The nature and impact of future changes in policies and Sachs International and ABN AMRO Bank N. V. now known as The regulatory action are not predictable and are beyond RBS Groups control Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS NV in relation to claims arising out but could have a significant effect on RBS Groups businesses and of the World Online initial public offering of 2000.
It held that these earnings.
defendants had committed certain wrongful acts in connection with the initial public offering.
The judgment does not establish liability or the Retail banking amount of any loss.
The defendant banks have agreed to pay settlement In the European Union, regulatory actions included an inquiry into retail sums to certain investors.
RBS Group does not believe that such banking initiated on 13 June 2005 in all of the then 25 member states by settlements or any final liability or loss will have a significant effect on the European Commissions Directorate General for Competition.
The RBS Groups financial position or profitability.
inquiry examined retail banking in Europe generally.
On 31 January 2007, the European Commission EC announced that barriers to competition in Madoff certain areas of retail banking, payment cards and payment systems in In December 2010, Irving Picard, as trustee for the bankruptcy estates of the European Union had been identified.
The EC indicated that it will Bernard L. Madoff and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC filed consider using its powers to address these barriers and will encourage a claim against RBS NV for $270 million.
This is a clawback action national competition authorities to enforce European and national similar to claims filed against six other institutions in December.
RBS NV competition laws where appropriate.
In addition, in late 2010, the EC or its subsidiaries invested in Madoff funds through feeder funds.
The launched an initiative pressing for increased transparency of bank fees.
Trustee alleges that RBS NV received $71 million in redemptions from the feeder funds and $200 million from its swap counterparties while RBS Multilateral interchange fees NV knew or should have known of Madoffs possible fraud.
The Trustee In 2007, the EC issued a decision that while interchange is not illegal per alleges that those transfers were preferences or fraudulent conveyances se, MasterCards current multilateral interchange fee MIF arrangement under the US bankruptcy code and New York law and he asserts the for cross border payment card transactions with MasterCard and Maestro purported right to claw them back for the benefit of Madoffs estate.
RBS branded consumer credit and debit cards in the European Union are in Group considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual breach of competition law.
MasterCard was required by the decision to defences to the claim and intends to defend it vigorously.
withdraw the relevant cross-border MIF i. e. set these fees to zero by 21 June 2008.
Summary of other disputes, legal proceedings and litigation Members of RBS Group are engaged in other litigation in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, involving claims by and against them arising in the ordinary course of business.
RBS Group has reviewed these other actual, threatened and known potential claims and proceedings and, after consulting with its legal advisers, does not expect that the outcome of any of these other claims and proceedings will have significant effect on RBS Groups financial position or profitability in any particular period.
RBS Group 2010 369 Notes on the accounts continued 34 Memorandum items continued remedies in the PPI market indicating that the CC still intends to impose a MasterCard appealed against the decision to the European Court of First prohibition on selling PPI at point of sale of the credit product.
On 14 Instance on 1 March 2008, and RBS Group has intervened in the appeal October 2010, the CC published its final decision on remedies following proceedings.
In addition, in summer 2008, MasterCard announced the remittal which confirmed the point of sale prohibition.
The CC intends various changes to its scheme arrangements.
The EC was concerned to make the final order in the first quarter of 2011, with the key measures that these changes might be used as a means of circumventing the coming into force in October 2011 and April 2012. requirements of the infringement decision.
In April 2009, MasterCard agreed an interim settlement on the level of cross-border MIFs with the The Financial Services Authority FSA has been conducting a broad EC pending the outcome of the appeal process and, as a result, the EC industry thematic review of PPI sales practices and in September 2008, has advised it will no longer investigate the non-compliance issue the FSA announced that it intended to escalate its level of regulatory although MasterCard is continuing with its appeal.
Substantial numbers of customer complaints alleging the mis-selling of PPI policies have been made to banks and to the Financial Visas cross-border MIFs were exempted in 2002 by the EC for a period Ombudsman Service FOS and many of these are being upheld by the of five years up to 31 December 2007 subject to certain conditions.
March 2008, the EC opened a formal inquiry into Visas current MIF arrangements for cross border payment card transactions with Visa Following unsuccessful negotiations with the industry, the FSA issued branded debit and consumer credit cards in the European Union and on 6 consultation papers on PPI complaint handling and redress in September April 2009 the EC announced that it had issued Visa with a formal 2009 and again in March 2010.
The FSA published its final policy Statement of Objections.
At the same time Visa announced changes to statement on 10 August 2010 and instructed firms to implement the its interchange levels and introduced some changes to enhance measures contained in it by 1 December 2010.
The new rules impose transparency.
There is no deadline for the closure of the inquiry.
However, significant changes with respect to the handling of mis-selling PPI on 26 April 2010 Visa announced it had reached an agreement with the complaints.
On 8 October 2010, the British Bankers Association filed an EC as regards immediate cross border debit card MIF rates only and in application for judicial review of the FSAs policy statement and of related December 2010 the commitments were finalised for a four year period guidance issued by the FOS.
The court hearing took place from 25 to 28 commencing December 2010 under Article 9 of Regulation 1 2003.
The January 2011 and judgment is awaited.
RBS Group is unable to reliably EC is continuing its investigations into Visas cross border MIF estimate the liability, if any, that might arise from this litigation or its effect arrangements for deferred debit and credit transactions.
on RBS Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
Separately, discussions continue between the In the UK, the OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and FSA and RBS Group in respect of concerns expressed by the FSA over MasterCard domestic credit card interchange rates.
The decision by the certain categories of historical PPI sales.
OFT in the MasterCard interchange case was set aside by the Gender equality in insurance contracts Competition Appeal Tribunal the CAT in June 2006.
The OFTs A ruling is expected in March 2011 from the European Court of Justice investigations in the Visa interchange case and a second MasterCard ECJ in a case relating to gender equality in the pricing of and the interchange case are ongoing.
On 9 February 2007, the OFT announced provision of benefits under insurance contracts and whether a persons that it was expanding its investigation into domestic interchange rates to gender can be used as one of the factors in calculating insurance include debit cards.
In January 2010 the OFT advised that it did not premiums.
At this stage, it is not possible to estimate the effect, if any, anticipate issuing a Statement of Objections prior to the European which the ECJs ruling may have on the Group.
General Courts judgment, although it has reserved the right to do so if it considers it appropriate.
Personal current accounts On 16 July 2008, the OFT published the results of its market study into The outcome of these investigations is not known, but they may have a Personal Current Accounts PCA in the United Kingdom.
The OFT found significant effect on the consumer credit industry in general and, therefore, evidence of competition and several positive features in the personal on RBS Groups business in this sector.
current account market but believed that the market as a whole was not working well for consumers and that the ability of the market to function Payment Protection Insurance well had become distorted.
Having conducted a market study relating to Payment Protection Insurance PPI, on 7 February 2007 the OFT referred the PPI market to On 7 October 2009, the OFT published a follow-up report summarising the Competition Commission CC for an in-depth inquiry.
The CC the initiatives agreed between the OFT and personal current account published its final report on 29 January 2009 and announced its intention providers to address the OFTs concerns about transparency and to order a range of remedies, including a prohibition on actively selling switching, following its market study.
Personal current account providers PPI at point of sale of the credit product and for 7 days thereafter, a ban will take a number of steps to improve transparency, including providing on single premium policies and other measures to increase transparency customers with an annual summary of the cost of their account and in order to improve customers ability to search and improve price making charges prominent on monthly statements.
Barclays Bank PLC subsequently appealed certain CC switching process, a number of steps are being introduced following work findings to the CAT.
On 16 October 2009, the CAT handed down a with BACS, the payment processor, including measures to reduce the judgment quashing the ban on selling PPI at the point of sale of credit impact on consumers of any problems with transferring direct debits.
products and remitted the matter back to the CC for review.
On 14 May 2010, the CC published its Provisional Decision following its review of 370 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements On 22 December 2009, the OFT published a further report in which it institutional shareholders to address these concerns and allow them to stated that it continued to have significant concerns about the operation drive greater competition in the market.
It is currently consulting on its of the personal current account market in the United Kingdom, in provisional decision not to refer the market to the CC.
RBS Group is particular in relation to unarranged overdrafts, and that it believed that engaged in the OFT market study and it is not possible to estimate with fundamental changes are required for the market to work in the best any certainty what effect this study and any related developments may interests of bank customers.
The OFT stated that it would discuss these have on RBS Group, its business or results of operations.
issues intensively with banks, consumer groups and other organisations, Independent Commission on Banking with the aim of reporting on progress by the end of March 2010.
On 16 On 16 June 2010, HM Treasury published the terms of reference for the March 2010, the OFT announced that it had secured agreement from the Governments Independent Commission on Banking ICB.
The ICB is banks on four industry-wide initiatives, namely minimum standards on the considering the structure of the United Kingdom banking sector and is operation of opt-outs from unarranged overdrafts, new working groups on looking at structural and non-structural measures to reform the banking information sharing with customers, best practice for PCA customers in system and to promote competition.
It is mandated to formulate policy financial difficulties and incurring charges, and PCA providers to publish recommendations with a view to: i reducing systemic risk in the banking their policies on dealing with PCA customers in financial difficulties.
The sector, exploring the risk posed by banks of different size, scale and OFT also announced its plan to conduct six-monthly ongoing reviews, to function: ii mitigating moral hazard in the banking system: iii reducing fully review the market again in 2012 and to undertake a brief analysis on the likelihood and impact of a banks failure: and iv promoting barriers to entry.
The first six-monthly ongoing review was completed in competition in retail and investment banking with a view to ensuring that September 2010.
The OFT noted progress in the areas of switching, the needs of banks customers are served efficiently and considering the transparency and unarranged overdrafts for the period March to extent to which large banks can gain competitive advantage from being September 2010, as well as highlighting further changes the OFT expects perceived as too big to fail.
The next progress report is expected to be published by the OFT in March 2011.
The ICB reports to the Cabinet Committee on Banking Reform and is required to produce a final report by the end of September 2011.
RBS On 26 May 2010, the OFT announced its review of barriers to entry.
The Group has responded to the call for evidence by the ICB.
In addition it review concerns retail banking for individuals and small and medium size has attended a private hearing, as well as public hearings in Edinburgh enterprises up to 25 million turnover and will look at products which and Cardiff in December 2010.
An issues paper by the ICB is expected in require a banking licence to sell mortgages, loan products and, where spring 2011.
At this stage it is not possible to estimate the effect of the appropriate, other products such as insurance or credit cards where ICBs report and recommendations upon RBS Group, if any.
cross-selling may facilitate entry or expansion.
The OFT published its report in November 2010.
It advised that it expected its review to be US dollar clearing activities relevant to the Independent Commission on Banking, the FSA, HM In May 2010, following a criminal investigation by the United States Treasury and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and to Department of Justice DoJ into its dollar clearing activities, Office of the devolved governments in the United Kingdom.
The OFT has not Foreign Assets Control compliance procedures and other Bank Secrecy indicated whether it will undertake any further work.
The report Act compliance matters, RBS NV formally entered into a Deferred maintained that barriers to entry remain, in particular regarding switching, Prosecution Agreement DPA with the DoJ resolving the investigation.
At this stage, it is not possible to estimate The investigation was in relation to activities before the Consortium the effect of the OFTs report and recommendations regarding barriers to Members acquired ABN AMRO Holding N. V. now known as RBS entry upon RBS Group.
The agreement was signed by RBS NV and is binding on that entity and its subsidiaries.
Pursuant to the DPA, RBS NV paid a Equity underwriting penalty of US$500 million and agreed that it will comply with the terms of On 10 June 2010, the OFT announced its intention to conduct a market the DPA and continue to co-operate fully with any further investigations.
study into equity underwriting and related services and sought views on Payment of the penalty was made from a provision established in April scope by 9 July 2010.
The OFT study was formally launched on 6 August 2007 when an agreement in principle to settle was first announced.
The OFT undertook to examine the underwriting services for the satisfaction of the conditions of the DPA for the period of 12 months from different types of share issue used by FTSE 350 firms to raise capital in May 2010, the matter will be fully resolved.
Failure to comply with the the UK including rights issues, placings and follow-on offers but excluding terms of the DPA during the 12 month period could result in the DoJ initial public offerings.
The OFT has been looking at the way that the recommencing its investigations, the outcome of which would be market works and the following three key issues: i how underwriting uncertain and could result in public censure and fines or have an adverse services are purchased: ii how underwriting services are provided: and effect on RBS Holdings N. V. s operations, any of which could have a iii how the regulatory environment affects the provision of underwriting material adverse effect on its business, reputation, results of operation services.
The OFT published its report on 27 January 2011 identifying and financial condition.
certain concerns around the level of equity underwriting fees.
The OFT has identified a number of options which would enable companies and RBS Group 2010 371 Notes on the accounts continued 34 Memorandum items continued representations and warranties.
In certain instances where it is required Securitisation and collateralised debt obligation business to repurchase loans or related securities, GBM N. A. may be able to In September and October 2010, the SEC requested voluntary production assert claims against third parties who provided representations or of information concerning residential mortgage backed securities warranties to GBM N. A. when selling loans to it: although the ability to underwritten by subsidiaries of RBS Group during the period from make recoveries against such parties and outcome of such claims would September 2006 to July 2007 inclusive.
In November 2010, the SEC be uncertain.
During the two-year period ended 31 December 2010, GBM commenced formal proceedings and requested testimony from RBS N. A. has received approximately US$38 million in repurchase demands employees.
The investigation is in its preliminary stages and it is difficult in respect of loans made and related securities sold where obligations in to predict any potential exposure that may result.
respect of contractual representations or warranties were undertaken by GBM N. A.
However, repurchase demands presented to GBM N. A. are In June 2009, in connection with an investigation into the role of subject to challenge and, to date, GBM N. A. has rebutted a significant investment banks in the origination and securitisation of sub prime loans percentage of these claims.
in Massachusetts, the Massachusetts Attorney General issued subpoenas to various banks, including an RBS Group subsidiary, seeking GBM N. A. has been named as a defendant in a number of suits relating information related to residential mortgage lending practices and sales to its role as issuer and underwriter of RMBS see section above other and securitisation of residential mortgage loans.
This investigation is securitisation and securities related litigation in the United States.
Those ongoing and RBS Group is co-operating.
lawsuits are in their early stages and we are not able to predict the outcome of such proceedings or their effect on the Group.
Previously, in 2008, the New York State Attorney General issued subpoenas to a wide array of participants in the securitisation and Citizens Financial Group CFG has not been an issuer or underwriter of securities industry, focusing on the information underwriters obtained as non-agency RMBS.
However, CFG is an originator and servicer of part of the due diligence process from the independent due diligence residential mortgages, and it routinely sells such mortgage loans in the firms.
RBS Group completed its production of documents requested by secondary market and to GSEs.
In the context of such sales, CFG makes the New York State Attorney General in 2009, principally producing certain representations and warranties regarding the characteristics of documents related to loans that were pooled into one securitisation the underlying loans and, as a result, may be contractually required to transaction.
More recently, in September 2010, RBS Group subsidiaries repurchase such loans or indemnify certain parties against losses for received a request from the Nevada State Attorney General requesting certain breaches of the representations and warranties concerning the information related to securitisations of mortgages issued by three underlying loans.
During the two-year period ended 31 December 2010, specific originators.
The investigation by the Nevada Attorney General is CFG has received approximately US$26 million in repurchase demands in the early stages and therefore it is difficult to predict the potential in respect of loans originated.
However, repurchase demands presented exposure from any such investigation.
RBS Group and its subsidiaries to CFG are subject to challenge and, to date, CFG has rebutted a are co-operating with these various investigations and requests.
significant percentage of these claims.
US mortgages Although there has been disruption in the ability of certain financial RBS's Global Banking & Markets N. A. GBM N. A., has been a purchaser institutions operating in the United States to complete foreclosure of non-agency US residential mortgages in the secondary market, and an proceedings in respect of US mortgage loans in a timely manner or at all issuer and underwriter of non-agency residential mortgage backed over the last year including as a result of interventions by certain states securities RMBS.
GBM N. A. did not originate or service any US and local governments, to date, CFG has not been materially impacted residential mortgages and it was not a significant seller of mortgage loans by such disruptions and the Group has not ceased making foreclosures.
to government sponsored enterprises GSEs e. g. the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association.
The Group cannot estimate what the future level of repurchase demands or ultimate exposure of GBM N. A. or CFG may be, and cannot give any In issuing RMBS, GBM N. A. generally assigned certain representations assurance that the historical experience will continue in the future.
and warranties regarding the characteristics of the underlying loans made Furthermore, the Group is unable estimate the extent to which the by the originator of the residential mortgages: however, in some matters described above will impact it and future developments may have circumstances, GBM N. A. made such representations and warranties an adverse impact on the Groups business, financial condition, results of itself.
Where GBM N. A. has given those or other representations and operations, cash flow and the value of its securities.
warranties whether relating to underlying loans or otherwise, GBM N. A. may be contractually required to repurchase such loans or indemnify certain parties against losses for certain breaches of such 372 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements Other investigations connection with sub-prime mortgages and securitisations, collateralised In April 2009, the FSA notified RBS Group that it was commencing a debt obligations and synthetic products related to sub-prime mortgages.
supervisory review of the acquisition of ABN AMRO in 2007 and the 2008 In particular, during March 2008, RBS Group was advised by the SEC capital raisings and an investigation into conduct, systems and controls that it had commenced a non-public, formal investigation relating to RBS within the Global Banking & Markets division of RBS Group.
RBS Group Groups United States sub-prime securities exposures and United States and its subsidiaries co-operated fully with this review and investigation.
RBS Group and its subsidiaries are coOn 2 December 2010, the FSA confirmed that it had completed its operating with these various requests for information and investigations.
investigation and had concluded that no enforcement action, either against RBS Group or against individuals, was warranted.
RBS Group is The Federal Reserve and state banking supervisors have been reviewing engaging constructively with the FSA with regard to the publication of a RBS Groups US operations and RBS Group and its subsidiaries have report by the FSA relating to the supervisory review, subject to any been required to make improvements with respect to various matters, necessary commercial constraints.
including enterprise-wide governance, Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering compliance, risk management and asset quality.
RBS Group In July 2010, the FSA notified RBS Group that it was commencing an is in the process of implementing measures for matters identified to date.
investigation into the sale by Coutts & Co of ALICO American Life RBS Group may become subject to formal and informal supervisory Insurance Company Premier Access Bond Enhanced Variable Rate actions and may be required by its US banking supervisors to take further Fund to customers between 2001 and 2008 as well as its subsequent actions and implement additional remedial measures with respect to review of those sales.
On 11 January 2011, the FSA amended the date these and additional matters.
Any limitations or conditions placed on RBS range on which their investigation is focused and the investigation start Groups activities in the United States, as well as the terms of any date is now December 2003.
RBS Group and its subsidiaries are cosupervisory action applicable to RBS Group and its subsidiaries, could operating fully with this investigation.
have a material adverse effect on RBS Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
In the United States, RBS Group and certain subsidiaries have received requests for information from various governmental agencies, selfregulatory organisations, and state governmental agencies including in RBS Group 2010 373
