Share-based payments The impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the The Group awards shares and options over shares in The Royal Bank of loan and the present value of estimated future cash flows at the loan's Scotland Group plc to its employees.
The expense for these transactions original effective interest rate.
is measured based on the fair value on the date the awards are granted.
The fair value of an option is estimated using valuation techniques which At 31 December 2010, gross loans and advances to customers totalled take into account its exercise price, its term, the risk-free interest rate and 573,315 million 2009 - 745,519 million: 2008 - 885,611 million and the expected volatility of the market price of The Royal Bank of Scotland customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 18,055 million 2009 - Group plc's shares.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when 17,126 million: 2008 - 10,889 million.
measuring fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the proportion of awards that actually vest.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line There are two components to the Group's loan impairment provisions: basis over the vesting period.
Following an amendment to IFRS 2 for individual and collective.
accounting periods starting after 1 January 2009, the cancellation of an award with non-vesting conditions triggers immediate recognition of an Individual component - all impaired loans that exceed specific thresholds expense in respect of any unrecognised element of the fair value of the are individually assessed for impairment.
principally comprise the Group's portfolio of commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment losses are recognised as the 26.
Cash and cash equivalents difference between the carrying value of the loan and the discounted Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand deposits with value of management's best estimate of future cash repayments and banks together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into account the convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of customer's debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and quality of change in value.
its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the realisable value of any security held.
Shares in Group entities Estimating the quantum and timing of future recoveries involves The company's investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost less any significant judgement.
The size of receipts will depend on the future impairment.
performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of which will be affected by future economic conditions: additionally, collateral may not Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty be readily marketable.
The actual amount of future cash flows and the The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, date they are received may differ from these estimates and consequently assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in preparing statements.
the Group's financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are Collective component - this is made up of two elements: loan impairment reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or provisions for impaired loans that are below individual assessment interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting thresholds collectively assessed provisions and for loan losses that Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and apply an have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the sheet date latent loss provisions.
Collectively assessed provisions are light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and established on a portfolio basis using a present value methodology taking related issues and the IASB's Framework for the Preparation and into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant involved in the Group's accounting policies that are considered by the factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition the related average life.
These portfolios include credit card receivables are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that and other personal advances including mortgages.
The future credit differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment Loan impairment provisions provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, The Group's loan impairment provisions are established to recognise notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Latent receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when there loss provisions are held against estimated impairment losses in the is objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have performing portfolio that have yet to be identified as at the balance sheet affected expected cash flows from the loan.
To assess the latent loss within its portfolios, the Group has indicative that a borrowers financial condition has deteriorated, can developed methodologies to estimate the time that an asset can remain include for loans that are individually assessed: the non-payment of impaired within a performing portfolio before it is identified and reported interest or principal: debt restructuring: probable bankruptcy or liquidation: as such.
significant reduction in the value of any security: breach of limits or covenants: and deteriorating trading performance and, for collectively assessed portfolios: the borrowers payment status and observable data about relevant macroeconomic measures.
RBS Group 2010 283 Accounting policies continued Pensions Equity securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes as profit or loss and available-for-sale - comprise equity shares of described in Note 4 on the accounts.
The assets of the schemes are companies or corporations both listed and unlisted.
measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of Deposits by banks and customer accounts held-for-trading and projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the designated as at fair value though profit or loss - deposits measured at best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the scheme fair value principally include repurchase agreements repos, cash liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the interest rate applicable collateral and investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance to high-quality corporate bonds of the same currency and term as the businesses.
Any recognisable surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or Debt securities in issue held-for-trading and designated as at fair value liability deficit.
though profit or loss - principally comprise medium term notes.
In determining the value of scheme liabilities, financial and demographic Short positions held-for-trading - arise in dealing and market making assumptions are made including price inflation, pension increases, activities where debt securities and equity shares are sold which the earnings growth and the longevity of scheme members.
A range of Group does not currently possess.
assumptions could be adopted in valuing the schemes' liabilities.
Different assumptions could significantly alter the amount of the surplus or deficit Derivatives - these include swaps currency swaps, interest rate swaps, recognised in the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the credit default swaps, total return swaps and equity and equity index income statement.
The assumptions adopted for the Group's pension swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, forward rate agreements, schemes are set out in Note 4 on the accounts, together with sensitivities futures currency, interest rate and equity and options exchange-traded of the balance sheet and income statement to changes in those options on currencies, interest rates and equities and equity indices and assumptions.
OTC currency and equity options, interest rate caps and floors and swaptions.
A pension asset of 105 million and a liability of 2,288 million were recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2010 2009 - asset - Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a 58 million, liability - 2,963 million: 2008 - asset - 36 million, liability - liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length 2,032 million.
Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where these Fair value - financial instruments are available.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial instrument Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at in an active market is the number of units of the instrument held times the fair value through profit or loss and financial assets classified as current bid price for financial assets or offer price for financial liabilities.
available-for-sale are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
In determining the fair value of derivative financial instruments gross long All derivatives are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from and short positions measured at current mid market prices are adjusted changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified as held-forby bid-offer reserves calculated on a portfolio basis.
Credit valuation trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included in adjustments are made when valuing derivative financial assets to the income statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale incorporate counterparty credit risk.
Adjustments are also made when financial assets are recognised directly in equity unless an impairment valuing financial liabilities to reflect the Groups own credit standing.
Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established using a valuation technique.
These valuation techniques Financial instruments measured at fair value include: involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instruments complexity and the availability of market-based data.
More Loans and advances held-for-trading and designated as at fair value details about the Groups valuation methodologies and the sensitivity to though profit or loss - principally comprise reverse repurchase reasonably possible alternative assumptions of the fair value of financial agreements reverse repos and cash collateral.
instruments valued using techniques where at least one significant input is unobservable are given in Note 12 on pages 310 to 324.
Debt securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though profit or loss and available-for-sale - debt securities include those issued by governments, municipal bodies, mortgage agencies and financial institutions as well as corporate bonds, debentures and residual interests in securitisations.
284 RBS Group 2010 Financial statements General insurance claims from the original assessment.
Actual claims experience may differ from The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling outstanding claims the historical pattern on which the estimate is based and the cost of arising from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling expenses.
General insurance claims Deferred tax provisions amounted to 6,726 million at 31 December 2010 2009 - The Group makes provision for deferred tax on short-term and other 5,802 million: 2008 - 5,478 million.
temporary differences where tax recognition occurs at a different time from accounting recognition.
Deferred tax assets of 6,373 million were Provisions are determined by management based on experience of recognised as at 31 December 2010 2009 - 7,039 million: 2008 - claims settled and on statistical models which require certain 7,082 million.
assumptions to be made regarding the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
In The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses, order to calculate the total provision required, the historical development principally in the UK, and short-term timing differences.
Deferred tax of claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, within assets are recognised in respect of unused tax losses to the extent that it acceptable probability parameters, the value of outstanding claims at the is probable that there will be future taxable profits against which the balance sheet date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims losses can be utilised.
Business projections prepared for impairment are other assumptions such as the inflationary factor used for bodily reviews see Note 19 indicate that sufficient future taxable income will be injury claims which is based on historical trends and, therefore, allows for available against which to offset these recognised deferred tax assets some increase due to changes in common law and statute: and the within eight years 2009 - eight years.
The Group's cumulative losses are incidence of periodical payment orders and the rate at which payments principally attributable to the recent unparalleled market conditions.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims Deferred tax assets of 2,008 million 2009 - 2,163 million: 2008 - handling expenses are also included.
Outward reinsurance recoveries 1,748 million have not been recognised in respect of tax losses carried are accounted for in the same accounting period as the direct claims to forward in jurisdictions where doubt exists over the availability of future which they relate.
The outstanding claims provision is based on taxable profits.
information available to management and the eventual outcome may vary RBS Group 2010 285 Accounting policies continued Accounting developments This standard makes major changes to the framework for the International Financial Reporting Standards classification and measurement of financial assets and will have a The IASB issued Improvements to IFRS in May 2010 implementing significant effect on the Group's financial statements.
The changes minor changes to IFRS, making non-urgent but necessary amendments relating to the classification and measurement of liabilities carried at fair to standards, primarily to remove inconsistency and to clarify wording.
value will have a less significant effect on the Group.
The Group is The revisions are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July assessing these impacts which are likely to depend on the outcome of 2010 and are not expected to have a material effect on the Group or the the other phases of IASB's IAS 39 replacement project.
The IASB issued Disclosures - Transfers of Financial Assets The IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in November 2009 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in October simplifying the classification and measurement requirements in IAS 39 2010 to extend the standards disclosure requirements about Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in respect of derecognition to align with US GAAP.
The revisions are effective for financial assets.
The standard reduces the measurement categories for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011 and will not affect the financial assets to two: fair value and amortised cost.
A financial asset is financial position or reported performance of the Group or the company.
classified on the basis of the entity's business model for managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes in December financial asset.
Only assets with contractual terms that give rise to cash 2010 to clarify that recognition of deferred tax should have regard to the flows on specified dates that are solely payments of principal and interest expected manner of recovery or settlement of the asset or liability.
The on the principal amount outstanding and which are held within a business amendment and consequential withdrawal of SIC 21 Deferred Tax: model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual Recovery of Underlying Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on cash flows are classified as amortised cost.
All other financial assets are or after 1 January 2012, is not expected to have a material effect on the measured at fair value.
Changes in the value of financial assets Group or the company.
measured at fair value are generally taken to profit or loss.
The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee issued In October 2010, IFRS 9 was updated to include the classification and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments in measurement of liabilities.
It is not markedly different from IAS 39 except December 2009.
The interpretation clarifies that the profit or loss on for liabilities measured at fair value where the movement is due to extinguishing liabilities by issuing equity instruments should be measured changes in credit rating of the preparer it is recognised not in profit or loss by reference to fair value, preferably of the equity instruments.
The but in other comprehensive income.
interpretation, effective for the Group for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, is not expected to have a material effect on the The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Group or the company.
January 2013: early application is permitted.
