Accounting policies continued Available-for-sale - financial assets that are not classified as held-toFinancial assets carried at amortised cost - if there is objective evidence maturity: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or loss: that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets or loans and receivables, are classified as available-for-sale.
Financial classified as loans and receivables or as held-to-maturity investments assets can be designated as available-for-sale on initial recognition.
has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at fair and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or value.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot be group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as available-for-sale at initial recognition.
For collateralised loans and receivables, estimated financial assets.
Impairment losses and exchange differences resulting future cash flows include cash flows that may result from foreclosure less from retranslating the amortised cost of foreign currency monetary the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in profit or loss together foreclosure is probable.
with interest calculated using the effective interest method see Accounting policy 3.
Other changes in the fair value of available-for-sale Where, in the course of the orderly realisation of a loan, it is exchanged financial assets and any related tax are reported in a separate for equity shares or properties, the exchange is accounted for as the sale component of shareholders' equity until disposal, when the cumulative of the loan and the acquisition of equity securities or investment gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Where the Groups interest in equity shares following the exchange is such that the Group controlling an entity, that entity is Reclassifications - held-for-trading and available-for-sale financial assets consolidated.
that meet the definition of loans and receivables non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are active market may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group individually significant and individually or collectively for assets that are has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable not individually significant.
In making collective assessment of impairment, future or until maturity.
The Group typically regards the foreseeable future financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk as twelve months from the date of reclassification.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on trading financial assets that do not meet the definition of loans and the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for receivables may, in rare circumstances, be transferred to available-forassets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical loss experience is sale financial assets or to held-to-maturity investments.
Reclassifications adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current conditions not are made at fair value.
This fair value becomes the asset's new cost or affecting the period of historical experience.
Gains and losses recognised up to the Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the carrying date of reclassification are not reversed.
amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans and establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If, in a subsequent receivables are recognised on settlement date: issues of equity or period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are recognised on be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the settlement date: all other regular way transactions in financial instruments previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once are recognised on trade date.
an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is quoted in an using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were active market is the current bid price times the number of units of the discounted in measuring impairment.
Fair values for financial assets not quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques including Impaired loans and receivables are written off, i. e. the impairment discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other methods provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value partially or in that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing full, when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic financial assets.
prospect of recovery of part or all of the loan.
For portfolios that are collectively assessed for impairment, the timing of write off principally 16.
Impairment of financial assets reflects historic recovery experience for each portfolio.
For loans that are The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any individually assessed for impairment, the timing of write off is determined objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets on a case-by-case basis.
Such loans are reviewed regularly and write classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or loans and receivables offs will be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, restructuring and similar is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired events.
Most debt is written off within five years of the recognition of the and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an initial impairment.
It is not the Groups usual practice to write-off all or part event or events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely of the asset at the time an impairment loss is recognised: it may however, affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
take place in rare circumstances.
Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off are credited to the loan impairment charge for the period in which they are received.
