SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the The Directors believe that presenting the insurance contract liabilities consolidated financial statements are set out below.
on this basis provides a more relevant measure of the insurance obligations than the recognition of a gross provision for unearned Consolidated financial statements premium with a separate disclosure of the related deferred acquisition The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance costs.
In determining the greater relevance of the presentation, the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Directors considered the basis of measurement of liabilities under by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements Solvency II, the proposed treatment of acquisition costs in the IASBs are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the exposure draft on insurance contracts that was published in July revaluation of available for sale financial assets, investment property, 2010, and the basis for the liability adequacy test under IFRS 4 Group occupied property and financial assets and financial liabilities Insurance Contracts.
held for trading which include all derivative contracts.
The revised presentation only affects the statement of financial position.
Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated In the income statement, earned premiums and expenses continue financial statements are presented in millions of Pounds Sterling, shown to reflect their respective components of the net movement as m, rounded to the nearest million.
in the provision for unearned premium.
The change therefore has no impact on the results presented in 2010 and the comparative period Changes in presentation and comparative information in 2009 nor on the key performance indicators derived from items The Group has adopted the revised version of IFRS 3 2008 Business appearing in the income statement.
The Directors consider that there is Combinations and an amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate sufficient information in the comparative information in the 2009 financial Financial Statements.
The revised standards change certain aspects of statements for the effect of the revised presentation of the financial accounting for business combinations including those described below: position as at 1 January 2009 to be readily understood and therefore no statement of financial position as at 1 January 2009 has been presented.
An equity interest in a subsidiary entity that is not held by the reporting and controlling entity is now described as a non controlling interest Selection of accounting policies previously described as a minority interest The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting The relevant proportion of total comprehensive income is attributed policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the to a non controlling interest even if this results in the non controlling Directors to present financial statements that they consider provide interest having a deficit balance the most relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there In a business combination, the acquiring company must measure the are different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of non controlling interest at either fair value or as the non controlling which would be in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant interests proportionate share of the identifiable net assets.
Previously influence upon the basis on which the financial statements are only the second basis was permitted presented.
The bases of selection of the accounting policies for Costs incurred by the acquirer in connection with a business the accounting for financial assets and for the recognition of actuarial combination must be accounted for separately from the business gains and losses related to pension obligations are set out below: combination.
This results in such costs being expensed and not being included in goodwill as was the case under the old accounting policy The Group designates financial assets that are held as investments All consideration including contingent consideration transferred in a on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the business combination is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Where the investment return Changes in the value of contingent consideration are measured in is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the accordance with the relevant accounting treatment under IFRS investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale financial Pre-existing equity interests in an acquiree are remeasured asset with unrealised gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive to fair value at the date of, and immediately before, the business income.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the combination and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the income statement.
financial asset is designated as at fair value through the income statement The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and losses These changes have been applied prospectively from 1 January 2010 arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups pension and do not impact on the results and the earnings per share of the obligations in the statement of comprehensive income during the comparative period or earlier periods and on the Groups financial period in which they arise.
This policy has been adopted as it provides position at the end of each such period, and therefore comparative the most relevant basis of recognition of such gains and losses.
information has not been restated for these changes.
Consolidation The Group has changed the presentation of deferred acquisition costs Subsidiaries in the statement of financial position.
Deferred acquisition costs have Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern previously been disclosed as a discrete asset but under the revised the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their presentation are now deducted from the provision for unearned activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half premiums within insurance contract liabilities, as shown in note 20. of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights 78 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are in which the entity operates the functional currency.
fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The results and financial position of those Group entities whose functional currency is not Sterling are translated into Sterling as follows: The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the period The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets Income and expenses for each income statement are translated given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at at average exchange rates during each period the date of exchange.
For business combinations completed prior to All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component 31 December 2009, the cost also includes costs directly attributable to of equity.
the acquisition and the value of contingent consideration on settlement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair taken to equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the income recognised as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at the Changes in the ownership interests of a subsidiary between closing exchange rate.
shareholders of the Group and shareholders holding a non controlling interest are accounted for as transactions between equity holders of Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency the Group.
Any difference between the fair value of the consideration using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
given by the transferee and the carrying value of the ownership interest Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transferred is recognised directly in equity.
transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on recognised in the income statement.
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence Goodwill and other intangible assets of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business subsidiaries are changed where necessary to ensure consistency acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the with the policies adopted by the Group.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the statement of financial position at cost and is Associates subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but The cost of the acquisition is the amount of cash paid and the fair value not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and of other purchase consideration.
For business combinations completed 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by prior to 31 December 2009, the cost also includes costs directly the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
attributable to the acquisition and the value of contingent consideration on settlement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the The Groups share of its associates post acquisition profits or losses are purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment recognised in the income statement and its share of post acquisition review at least annually.
An impairment review is also carried out movements in reserves are recognised in the statement of comprehensive whenever there is an indication that goodwill or other intangible assets income.
The cumulative post acquisition movements are adjusted in the are impaired.
Where the carrying amount is more than the recoverable carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in amount, an impairment is recognised in the income statement.
an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, provisions for it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
losses and loss adjustment expenses are discounted to present value.
Immediately following the acquisition, the provisions for losses and Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the accounting policies of loss adjustment expenses are valued at full nominal value except associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
This increase in liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising from acquired provisions Translation of foreign currencies for losses and loss adjustment expenses, representing the present Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities value of future investment income implicit in the claims discount.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 79 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The intangible asset is amortised over the expected run off period An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication and is tested in the context of the liability adequacy test of insurance that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount is written contract liabilities where the balances of intangible assets associated down to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is with insurance contracts is deducted from the carrying amount of the greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
The run off period is normally between five and 11 years.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in equity.
Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising from computer software in excess of its standard of performance assessed Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are immediately before the expenditure was made, is recognised as an charged against revaluation surplus directly in equity: other decreases intangible asset.
are charged to the income statement.
Each year the difference between depreciation based on the fair value of the asset charged to the income Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, statement and depreciation based on the assets original cost is brands and other acquired identifiable non monetary assets without transferred from revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
Investment property Computer software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation on computer software and buildings, is held for long term rental yields and is not occupied by other intangible assets is calculated using the straight line method to the Group.
allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives, which is normally estimated to be between three and 12 years.
Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent professionally qualified valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant Property and equipment professional qualification and have recent experience in the location Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, and category of the investment property being valued.
Valuations are fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and carried out on an annual basis or more frequently and by internal motor vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated valuers for interim periods, with reference to current market conditions.
useful life after taking into account residual values.
Related unrealised gains and unrealised losses or changes thereof are recognised in net investment return.
Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at depreciated Financial assets cost.
Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
A financial asset is initially recognised, on the date the Group commits to purchase the asset, at fair value plus, in the case of all financial assets Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar not classified as at fair value through the income statement, transaction property in the same location and condition and subject to similar costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A financial asset is contractual terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by external derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment professionally qualified valuation surveyors on at least an annual basis, have expired or have been transferred and when the Group has with reference to current market conditions.
substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
On initial recognition, the financial assets may be categorised into the Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets and is probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated on the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets to The Group designates investments in equity and debt securities in their residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: accordance with its investment strategy on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the performance is evaluated Group occupied buildings normally 30 years internally.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of Fixtures and fittings 10 years the periodic cashflows arising from the investment, a financial asset is Motor vehicles 4 years designated as an available for sale financial asset.
Where the investment Equipment 3-5 years return is managed on the basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted as at fair value through the income statement.
comprising loans, reinsurance deposits and other deposits are classified as loans and receivables.
80 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial assets arising from non investment activities are not classified For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of on initial recognition as available for sale assets and are therefore the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure categorised as loans and receivables.
to variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to Where the cumulative changes recognised in equity represent an have been highly effective.
unrealised loss the individual asset or group of assets is reviewed to test whether an indication of impairment exists.
Where loan capital or a forward foreign exchange contract is designated as a hedging instrument against the net investment in For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where there foreign entities, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including for equity equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised investments a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below cost, immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated the unrealised loss charged to equity is reclassified to the income statement.
in equity are included in the income statement when the underlying hedged item is derecognised.
If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the Estimation of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses fair value of financial assets and liabilities are: on equity investments are not reversed.
For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon For other loans and receivables, where there is evidence that the quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, contracted cashflows will not be received in full, an impairment charge fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted is recognised in the income statement to reduce the carrying value market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting of the financial asset to its recoverable amount.
expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes fair is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised using the effective value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially investments are recognised directly in equity, except for impairment the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option pricing models losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items which For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values are recognised in the income statement.
On derecognition of an are estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon investment classified as available for sale, the cumulative gain or loss prevailing market rates previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
For cash, loans and receivables, commercial paper, other assets, liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values Derivative financial instruments For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are Derivatives are recognised in the statement of financial position on determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated using a trade date basis and are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and, when different, fair negative.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on value is shown in the relevant note.
For borrowings that carry a whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature variable rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values of the item being hedged.
Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging approximate to fair values instrument, changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
Hedging Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as conditions for hedge accounting are met: Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities for undertaking the hedge Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly consistent with the originally documented risk management strategy i. e. derived from prices for that particular hedging relationship Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 81 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Insurance contracts they are settled or in which the provisions for losses and loss Product classification adjustment expenses are re-estimated.
Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is At the end of each reporting period an assessment is made of whether transferred when the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder the provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
A separate provision if a specified uncertain future event other than a change in a financial is made, based on information available at the end of the reporting variable adversely affects the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting period, for any estimated future underwriting losses relating to unexpired the definition of an insurance contract under IFRS are classified as risks.
The provision is calculated after taking into account future investment contracts or derivative contracts, as appropriate.
investment income that is expected to be earned from the assets backing the provisions for unearned premiums net of deferred acquisition costs.
Recognition of income The unexpired risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the which, in the opinion of the Directors, are managed together.
contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the end of the reporting period.
Premiums Reinsurance ceded written exclude taxes and duties levied on premiums and directly Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded are recognised in related expenses, e. g. commissions.
Premiums are earned as revenue the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include over the period of the contract and are calculated principally on a estimates where the amounts are not determined at the end of the daily pro rata basis.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the reinsurance contract, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
Insurance contract liabilities The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent is recognised to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under to the end of the reporting period after the deduction of related the reinsurance contracts in respect of the provisions for losses and loss acquisition costs.
adjustment expenses reported under insurance contract liabilities.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is initially valued on the same basis Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining as the underlying provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised The amount recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after as deferred acquisition costs and are deducted from the provision the initial recognition that provides objective evidence that the Group for unearned premiums.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised may not receive all amounts due under the reinsurance contract and on the same basis as the related premiums are earned.
the event has a reliably measurable impact on the expected amount that will be recovered from the reinsurer.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses whether reported or not, comprise the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled The reinsurers share of each unexpired risk provision is recognised on at the end of the reporting period.
It includes related expenses and the same basis.
a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is determined using the best information available of Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured claims settlement patterns, forecast inflation and settlement of claims.
settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to long Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the term permanent disability claims in the UK, Canada and Scandinavia are annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an annuity also determined using recognised actuarial methods.
is recognised in the income statement at the date of purchase.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses, and related Cash and cash equivalents reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly Cash and cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that long period from incident to claims settlement and where there exists are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets In defining those claims with a long period from incident to claims with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
settlement, those categories of claims where the average period of settlement is six years or more from the end of the reporting period Treasury shares has been used as a guide.
The discount rate used is based upon Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised an investment return expected to be earned by assets, which are on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
appropriate in magnitude and nature to cover the provisions for losses Any consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
and loss adjustment expenses being discounted, during the period necessary for the payment of such claims.
Loan capital Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are initially measured at Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement the consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, loan capital of claims are recognised in the income statement in the year in which is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
82 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An exchange with an existing lender of loan capital with substantially Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original retirement health schemes financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in the income statement in the period in which the employment services The terms are substantially different if the discounted present value qualifying for the benefit are provided.
The Group has no further of the cashflows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
any fees received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income remaining cashflows of the original financial liability.
An exchange where statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined the terms are not substantially different is accounted for as an exchange.
benefit schemes are as follows: If an exchange of loan capital or modification of terms is accounted The current service cost for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as The past service cost for additional benefits granted in the current part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment.
If it is accounted for as or earlier periods an exchange, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of The interest cost for the period the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period liability and no adjustment is made to the carrying value of the liability The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
to reflect its fair value at the date of exchange.
The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes Taxation comprises the present value of the additional benefits attributable Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for to employees services provided during the period.
the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present value respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using the is recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, except Projected Unit Credit Method.
where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is probable that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, in which Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
The cost case UK tax is based on dividends received.
of providing additional benefits is recognised on a straight line basis over the remaining period of service until such benefits vest.
The cost of Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary providing additional benefits that vest on their introduction are differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the recognised immediately.
carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an actuarial other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount the expected affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
The discount rate is determined for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have at the end of each reporting period by reference to current market yields been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the currency and period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax estimated term of the obligations.
The interest cost for the period is asset is realised or the related deferred tax liability is settled.
calculated by multiplying the discount rate determined at the start of the period by the defined benefit obligations during the period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligations temporary differences can be utilised.
and the changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any curtailments and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period Employee benefits are recognised in the income statement.
Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes Additionally, any previously unrecognised past service costs related are generally funded through payments to trustee administered to these liabilities are recognised in the gains or losses on settlement funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has and curtailment.
both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays The expected returns on scheme assets are determined for each fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme asset class, at the beginning of the period, as the expected investment is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that returns on scheme assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one All returns are net of investment expenses.
or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 83 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions Provisions when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or of scheme liabilities and investment performance of scheme assets constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely being different from previous assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The value recognised in the statement of financial position for each Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that individual post retirement scheme is calculated as follows: an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the at the end of the reporting period same class of obligations may be small.
Minus any past service cost not yet recognised Minus the fair value at the end of the reporting period of the Dividends to equity holders scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the Annual General Meeting.
The interim dividend is recognised when paid.
For those individual schemes in deficit, the resulting net liabilities are recognised in the statement of financial position in provisions.
For those Leases individual schemes in surplus, an asset is recognised in the statement of Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line financial position in other debtors and other assets to the extent that basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases the Group can realise an economic benefit, in the form of a refund or are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
a reduction in future contributions, at some point during the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled.
Operating segments Operating segments are identified on the basis of the regional Termination benefits structure of the Group.
Internal reports about these segments are Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated regularly reviewed by the Group Chief Executive Officer and by before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts the Board of Directors to assess their performance and to allocate voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group capital and resources.
recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary recovered principally through a sale transaction, that is highly probable redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of to complete within one year from the date of classification, rather than the reporting period are discounted to present value.
Such assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are classified Share based payments separately from other assets in the statement of financial position.
The value of the employee share options and other equity settled Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are not netted.
In the period share based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date using where a non current asset or disposal group is recognised for the first appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value of liabilities time, the statement of financial position for the comparative prior in respect of cash settled share based payment transactions is based period presented is not restated.
upon the fair value of the awards at the end of the reporting period.
Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit conditions, other than those based upon market conditions, are not or loss of discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss taken into account when estimating the fair value of such awards but recognised on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments to sell of the net assets constituting the discontinued operations.
included in the ultimate measurement of the transaction amount.
In the period where an operation is presented for the first time as The value of the awards is recognised as an expense on a systematic discontinued, the income statement for the comparative prior period basis over the period during which the employment services are presented is restated to present that operation as discontinued.
Where an award of options is cancelled by an employee, the full value of the award less any value previously recognised is Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is presented recognised at the cancellation date.
as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements contain amounts attributable to continuing operations only.
The comparatives for the The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited notes to the income statement are restated.
to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
84 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Current and non current distinction On 28 October 2010 the requirements for classifying and measuring Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within financial liabilities were added to IFRS 9.
The majority of the requirements the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are classified were carried forward unchanged from IAS 39.
However, the as current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal requirements related to the fair value option for financial liabilities operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified were changed to address the issue of own credit risk in order that as non current.
the effects of changes in a liabilitys credit risk ought not to affect profit or loss unless the liability is held for trading.
The Groups statement of financial position is not presented using current and non current classifications.
However, the following balances It is expected that the IASB will issue the new standard covering the are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents and remaining parts of the project during 2011. insurance and reinsurance debtors.
The new standard comes into effect for the annual periods beginning The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill on or after 1 January 2013, but early adoption is permitted.
The new and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment standard has not yet been adopted by the EU.
The new standard relies property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax assets: on the Group business model objective and may also be influenced loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
by the basis of the measurement of the Groups insurance contract liabilities at the time that the new standard is adopted.
The latter The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non may change prior to adoption of IFRS 9 and so it is not possible to current portions of such balances are set out in the respective notes determine the overall impact on the results and the earnings per or in the risk management section.
share of the current period, the comparative period or earlier periods, and on the Groups financial position at the end of each such period.
Recently issued accounting pronouncements It is not possible to assess the impact the changes will have on future Pronouncements issued by the International Accounting Standards periods as in addition to the factors above, these will be impacted by Board IASB but which are not yet mandatory for adoption and have future market conditions and management actions.
yet to be adopted in the Group financial statements are listed below: In addition to the above, the IASB has issued the following interpretations On 12 November 2009 the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
of, and revisions to, existing standards that are not expected to have a This standard represents the completion of the first part of a multimaterial impact on the Groups financial statements: part project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The new standard reduces the complexity by Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
The key features for Classification of Rights Issues issued 8 October 2009 the new standard are as follows: Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures issued 4 November 2009 Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding A business model test is applied first in determining whether Requirement issued 26 November 2009 a financial asset is eligible for amortised cost measurement.
Interpretation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity The business model objective is based on holding financial assets Instruments issued 26 November 2009 in order to collect contractual cashflows rather than realising Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative cashflows from the sale of the financial assets IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters issued 28 January 2010 In order to be eligible for amortised cost measurement an asset Improvements to IFRS issued 6 May 2010 must have contractual cashflow characteristics representing principal Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and interest Transfers of Financial Assets issued 7 October 2010 All other financial assets are measured at fair value in the statement Amendments to IFRS 1 Removal of Fixed Dates For First-time of financial position.
Subject to an optional treatment for an equity Adopters and Additional exemption for entities ceasing to suffer investment, changes in fair value during the reporting period are from severe hyperinflation issued 20 December 2010 recognised in the income statement.
The option in IAS 39 allowing Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes Deferred Tax entities to classify financial instruments as available for sale is not Recovery of Underlying Assets issued 20 December 2010. available in IFRS 9 An entity can elect on initial recognition to present the fair value changes on an equity investment that is not held for trading directly in other comprehensive income.
The dividends on such investments must be recognised in the income statement but gains or losses are not recycled when the equity investment is derecognised If a financial asset is eligible for amortised cost measurement, an entity can elect to measure it at fair value if it eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 85
