74 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure Report, the remuneration report and the consolidated and Transparency Rules financial statements in accordance with applicable law Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are and regulations.
listed in the Directors profiles section of this Annual Report confirms that, to the best of each persons The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law knowledge and belief: inthe United Kingdom UK, requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The consolidated financial statements, prepared in Under that law the Directors have prepared the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and in Groupand parent company financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, give a accordance with International Financial Reporting true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union position and profit of the Company and the Group: EU.
The financial statements are required by law to The Directors report contained in the Annual Report give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and Accounts includes a fair review of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of development and performance of the business and theGroup for that period.
the position of the Company and Group and a In preparing those financial statement the Directors are description of the principal risks and uncertainties required to: that they face: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant them consistently: audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: They have each taken all the steps that ought to have been taken by them as Directors in order to make State that the financial statements comply with themselves aware of any relevant audit information IFRSas adopted by the EU, subject to any material and to establish that the Companys auditors are departure disclosed and explained in the financial aware of that information.
statements: and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance Prepare the financial statements on the going andintegrity of the audited financial information on concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume theGroup website, www.
Legislation that the Group will continue in business, in which intheUK governing the preparation and dissemination case there should be supporting assumptions or of financial statements may differ from legislation in qualifications as necessary.
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority Forward-looking statements to include a management report containing a fair This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders review of the business and a description of the principal website may contain forward-looking statements with risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
respect to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of the Group.
Such statements and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they are books of accounting records that disclose with based on current expectations and assumptions but reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position relate to events and depend upon circumstances in the of the Company and the Group and to enable them future.
Without limitation, any statements preceded or toensure that the financial statements and the followed by or that include the words targets, plans, remuneration report comply with the Companies believes, expects, aims, or anticipates or the Act2006 and, as regards the Group financial negative of these terms and other similar terms are statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
arealso responsible for safeguarding the assets of There are a number of factors that could cause actual theCompany and the Group and hence for taking results or developments to differ materially from those reasonable steps for the prevention and detection expressed or implied by forward-looking statements offraud and other irregularities.
Forward-looking statements and forecasts are based on the Directors current view and information known to them at the date of this report.
The Directors do not make any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as aresult of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp049 074. indd 74 15 03 2011 17:39 Auditors report 76 Consolidated income statement 77 4.
Financial Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 78 statements Consolidated balance sheet 79 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 80 Consolidated cash flow statement 81 Notes to the accounts 82 Auditors report on Schroders plc 131 Schroders plc accounts 132 48485 TEXT pp075 081. indd 75 15 03 2011 12:48
