Investor Information The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, The SIT SIPP provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, which enable investors to access SIT shares.
The wide choice of investments available, including SIT, enables you to tailor the investment How to Invest combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and SIT shares can be bought directly on the stockmarket objectives whether you are just starting to contribute to your through a stockbroker.
Your bank, lawyer, accountant or other pension or are approaching retirement.
You can open a SIT professional adviser may be able to help with this.
Alternatively, SIPP even if you are already an active member of an employers our registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, provides pension scheme or are contributing to other pension plans.
a sharedealing service which can be found on their website, You can also set up a SIT SIPP for a child or a non-earning www.
co. uk, or by telephoning 0870 703 0084. spouse or partner.
You can also buy SIT shares using the easy to access, Update on Tax-Efficient Investing low-cost investment products outlined below: ISAs The overall annual ISA investment limit is currently 10,200 STOCKPLAN and applies to everyone who is eligible to invest in an ISA.
SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the most Up to the full 10,200 can be invested in a stocks and shares cost-effective available.
There is no initial plan charge, ISA with one provider.
Alternatively, up to 5,100 can be other than stamp duty and dealing spread, and no annual saved in a cash ISA with one provider: the remainder of the charge.
It costs just 11.95 to sell some or all of your holding.
10,200 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with STOCKPLAN allows you to invest regularly minimum investment either the same or another provider.
25 per month and or with a lump sum minimum investment From 6 April 2011, the annual ISA investment limit will be 250.
There is no maximum investment limit and you can stop indexed annually in line with the Retail Prices Index RPI and restart investing at any time.
for the September before the start of each new tax year.
Increased contribution limits will be rounded to a multiple STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start of 120 to make the calculations easier for those who save monthly.
SITs Investing for Children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN The annual ISA investment limit for the 2011 12 tax year scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility is 10,680.
Up to 5,340 may be placed in a cash ISA and and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated the remainder can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying with either the same or another provider.
Alternatively, the Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child full 10,680 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA to help build savings for the future.
Transfers from previous years cash ISAs into stocks and The SIT ISA shares ISAs are permitted and do not count against the This is one of the lowest-charging stocks and shares ISAs on current years subscription.
There is no initial plan charge, other than stamp duty and Investment in ISAs continues to be free from any capital dealing spread, nor are there closure or selling charges.
Higher rate tax payers do not have to pay any annual management fee of 0.6% of the value of the investment additional tax.
is currently capped at 30 VAT regardless of how much your SIT ISA investment grows or how many years ISA allowances SIT Schemes Administrator Telephone Number you have invested with SIT.
There is one telephone number for the administration of the SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes.
This is the number The SIT ISA Transfer for our scheme administrator, Halifax Share Dealing Limited SIT can accept the transfer of existing stocks and shares ISAs HSDL, and it should be used by holders of our STOCKPLAN, from other qualifying managers into The SIT ISA at any time STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA schemes for: without losing the ISAs tax status.
SIT can also accept the giving change of address details: transfer of cash ISAs into The SIT ISA.
This would turn the instructing a sale: cash ISA you are transferring into a stocks and shares ISA.
requesting a valuation: SIT makes no charge for transfers in.
However, your previous making an investment using a debit card: ISA manager may charge for administering the transfer out.
changing the amount of your monthly investment: account queries: information about your scheme: and help with accessing STOCKPLAN and ISA information online The number is: 0845 850 0181.
42 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Investor Information continued Please note you will need your Share Dealing Personal Dividends Reference Number PRN to access this service.
If you do The following dividends have been paid or proposed during 2010: not have this, please contact SITs scheme administrator, Record Payment HSDL, on 0845 850 0181.
Dividends Amount XD date date date SIPP investors Final 2009 5.15p 13 January 15 January 11 February SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and 2010 2010 2010 sell shares and access their account online, by visiting Interim 2010 4.45p 9 June 11 June 16 July www.
co. uk online 2010 2010 2010 Name on register shareholders Final 2010 5.60p 5 January 7 January 7 February Investors who hold shares in their own name on SITs share 2011 2011 2011 register can check their holdings on our registrars website, www.
co. uk or through the link in the investor SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk Please note that to access this facility, investors will need to quote the The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate.
However, they also allow for dividends to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN Moreover, by registering for the Investors Centre facility on and ISA holders should contact the scheme administrator, Computershares website, investors can view details of all HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 if they would like to change their their holdings for which Computershare is registrar, as well dividend arrangements.
as access additional facilities and documentation.
Name on register shareholders Please see www.
co. uk for further information.
Conversely, name on register shareholders investors whose names are on our share register and who hold their shares Electronic Communications in certificated form where dividends are automatically paid Name on register shareholders as income, can have their dividends reinvested by joining our Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details are available If you are a name on register shareholder i. e. not in the from Computershare Investor Services, our registrar, STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers nominee on 0870 703 0195, or from the investor relations section you may choose to receive our interim and annual reports and on our website, www.
co. uk other shareholder communications electronically instead of in paper form.
All you need to do to register is to visit the link in the investor relations section on our website, www.
co. uk Monitoring Your Investment and provide your email details.
You will then be advised by email SITs share price, together with performance information and when an electronic communication is available to be accessed.
product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk The share price is published daily in most quality newspapers.
Shareholders Meetings In addition, a number of financial websites, such as the FT Name on register shareholders website, www.
ft. com and the London Stock Exchange, Investors whose names appear on the main share register www.
com carry share price information.
are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and other general meetings.
Notices of meetings and proxy cards are sent to SIT publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on its website.
An interim report is issued in June of each year, with the annual report being distributed to all investors in late December.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA and SIPP investors STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA and SIPP STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors investors are entitled to attend the AGM and other general receive twice yearly statements of their holdings and SITs meetings and vote by completing and returning the form investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
of direction enclosed with this report.
Accessing Your Account Online The AGM will be held at the Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start designated Square, Edinburgh on 28 January 2011 at 10.30am.
scheme investors The above scheme investors may view their accounts online by registering with .
This can be accessed through the links in the various product sections on our website, www.
co. uk online Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 43 Investor Information continued Electronic Voting Further Information For further information and brochures on any SIT products Name on register shareholders please visit our website, www.
co. uk or contact: Name on register shareholders in their own right are able to submit proxy votes electronically for our AGM.
Please follow SIT Investor Relations the instructions on your proxy card.
SIT Savings Limited Freepost EH882 Personal Taxation Edinburgh Income Tax EH2 0BR Currently, all UK dividends are paid to shareholders net of a tax credit of 10%.
Non-tax payers cannot reclaim the tax Brochure Request Line: 0800 42 44 22 credit.
co. uk Non-ISA shareholders liable to higher rates of tax will be assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
Investor Relations and Compliance Manager Alan Jamieson Capital Gains Tax CGT Investment trusts currently pay no CGT on gains made within Marketing Manager SIT Savings Ltd the portfolio.
When investors sell all or part of their holdings, Sherry-Ann Sweeting they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 10,100 per annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March 1982 the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that date of 41.472p.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
Please remember that we are unable to offer individual investment or taxation advice.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
SIT Savings Limited is the plan manager of STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The SIT ISA and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Risk Warning Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of shares and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns.
However, should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify any losses.
SIT can buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing gearing.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010
