Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty-third annual general meeting of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on 28 January 2011 at 10:30am, for the purpose of transacting the following: As ordinary business: 1.
To receive and consider the directors report and statement of accounts for the year to 31 October 2010.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year to 31 October 2010.
To declare a final dividend of 5.60p per share.
To re-elect Mr Douglas McDougall as a director.
To re-elect Mr Francis Finlay as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the company, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each for cancellation, provided that: a. the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the aggregate issued shares on the date this resolution is passed: b. the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: c. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d. unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30 April 2012, save that the company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except number 7 which is a special resolution.
Steven Hay Secretary 16 December 2010 Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45 Notice of Meeting continued be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp Notes applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from Arrangements have been made to enable all investors which the companys registrar is able to retrieve the message to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting.
by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed Registered shareholders whose names appear on the through CREST should be communicated to the appointee by companys register of members no later than 48 hours other means.
excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors attend, speak and vote or be represented at the meeting or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK in respect of the shares registered in their name at that and Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures time.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his and vote on his or her behalf.
If a shareholder wishes to appoint CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to exercise action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is rights attaching to a different share or shares held by the transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the company time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, but must attend the AGM to represent the relevant shareholder.
their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, Shareholders may not use any electronic address provided in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning either in this notice or any related documents, including the practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
proxy form, to communicate with the company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the A proxy may only be appointed using the procedure set out Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
Proxy forms and the original or duly certified copy of the power of attorney or Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the other authority, if any, under which it is signed or authenticated, company who appoints a person other than the chairman as must be lodged with the companys registrar not less than 48 his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party hours excluding non-working days before the meeting or, in the comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As at 10 December 2010, not less than 24 hours, excluding non-working days, before the the companys issued share capital comprised 117,465,926 time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Completion of the proxy shares none of which are held in treasury.
Each share carries form will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and the right to one vote at a general meeting of the company.
Accordingly, the total number of voting rights exercisable at the meeting was 117,465,926.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may Shareholders may require the company to publish, on its do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual website, without payment, a statement, which is also passed and by logging on to the website www.
to the auditors, setting out any matter relating to the audit of CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members the companys accounts, including the auditors report and the and those CREST members who have appointed a voting conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the meeting.
service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting The company will be required to do so once it has received service provider who will be able to take the appropriate action such requests from either i members representing at least on their behalf.
5% of the total voting rights of the company or ii at least 100 members who have rights to vote and hold shares in the For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST company on which there has been paid up an average sum service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST per member of at least 100.
Proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications, and Further information regarding the meeting including the information must contain the information required for such instruction, required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless available from www.
co. uk of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the companys registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST ID 3RA 50 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will 46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Notice of Meeting continued Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b t he answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday.
The register of directors interests maintained by the company together with copies of directors appointment letters will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the annual general meeting until the conclusion thereof.
No director has any service contract with the company.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA and SIPP investors are welcome to attend and may vote by completing the Form of Direction enclosed with this report.
This must be returned to the companys registrar no later than 10.30am on 21 January 2011.
Other investors whose holdings are in nominee names and who wish to attend and vote are advised to contact their nominee before 21 January 2011.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 7 February 2011 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 7 January 2011.
This report was sent to the address at present registered for communications.
Any change of address should be notified to the companys registrar or the savings scheme administrator as appropriate.
Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 47 Notes 48 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010
