Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out in e Finance Costs paragraphs a to i below.
All have been applied consistently Interest payable has been charged one-half to revenue throughout the current and the preceding year: reserve and one-half to capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of long-term future returns from a Basis of Accounting the companys investments 2009: same.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured bonds basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include due 2030 have been included in the financing costs of the the revaluation of investments at fair value, and in accordance issue which are being written off over the life of the bonds.
with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The companys accounting policies comply with the AIC Statement f Taxation of Recommended Practice SORP issued in January 2009 Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and or recovered.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which b Valuation of Investments result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay Listed investments are valued at fair value through profit and more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Fair value is the closing bid or last traded price according differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and to the recognised convention of the markets on which they expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from are quoted.
Where trading in the securities of an investee those in which they are included in the financial statements.
company is suspended, the investment is valued at the boards Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is estimate of its net realisable value.
Where appropriate, the regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
directors have adopted the guidelines issued by the International Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The Private Equity and Venture Capital Association for the valuation company has no deferred tax asset or liability.
Heritable property is included at a professional valuation.
Depreciation is not charged on g Foreign Currency heritable property as it is not material.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments, transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in permanent impairments in the value of investments and unrealised a related forward contract.
Assets and liabilities denominated surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of investments are in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates taken to capital reserve as explained in note h below.
of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value of from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the c Income gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into account on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on shares where h Capital Reserve no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into account when The following are accounted for in this reserve: the companys right to receive payment is established.
gains and losses on the realisation of investments: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: Interest and other income from non-equity securities, including realised gains and losses on transactions undertaken debt securities, are recognised on a time apportionment basis to hedge an exposure of a capital nature: so as to reflect the effective yield on the securities.
the funding of share repurchases: Where the company elects to receive dividends in the form expenses and interest charged to capital: of additional shares scrip dividends rather than in cash, the increases and decreases in the valuation of investments amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any held at the year end: excess in the value of the shares received over the amount unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature: of the cash is recognised in capital reserves.
unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature: and d Expenses increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Eligible investment expenses have been charged one-half i Pensions to revenue reserve and one-half to capital reserve in line with Information on the companys pension scheme is contained the directors expectations of the nature of long-term future in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 28. returns from the companys investments 2009: same.
Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment are treated as part of the cost, or deducted from the sales proceeds of the investment.
26 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010
