ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE C A L L L T I H O G E C ON LT A A R N L C P R O A D NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Public Transport By Rail: Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN Edinburgh Waverley approximately a 5 minute walk away.
Omni Cinema If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend JOHN Calton Square the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
LEWIS ST. JAMES Baillie Gifford may record your call.
BUS CENTRE STATION Parking available under Calton Square THISTLE & Thistle Hotel HOTEL BALMORAL HOTEL Access to Waverley Train Station on foot EDINBURGH WAVERLEY STATION Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one-hundredth and first Annual a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares General Meeting of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be hereby authorised to be purchased is 38,684,677 held within the offices of Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, being approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN on Monday, 28 June 2010 share capital of the Company on the date on which this at 4.30pm for the following purposes: resolution is passed: b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid Ordinary Business for each ordinary share is 25 pence: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid Ordinary Resolutions: for each ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of: 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the for the year to 31 March 2010 with the Reports of the Directors London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
five business days immediately preceding the date of 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to purchase: and 31 March 2010. ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock 3.
To re-elect Mr JPHS Scott as a Director.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the 5.
To re-elect Mr WG McQueen as a Director.
Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys Annual 6.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditors of the General Meeting to be held in respect of the financial year Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual ending 31 March 2011, save that the Company may, General Meeting at which the financial statements are laid prior to the expiry of such authority, enter into a contract or before the Company.
contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the which will or might be completed or executed wholly or Independent Auditors of the Company.
partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as or contracts.
That, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice generally empowered pursuant to section 573 of the Companies to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, Act 2006 the Act to sell equity securities as defined in sections the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally 560 1 and 560 2 of the Act in the Company if, immediately authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies before the sale, such shares are held by the Company as treasury Act 2006 theAct, to make market purchases within the shares as defined in section 724 3 of the Act treasury shares meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid ordinary for cash consideration as defined in section 727 2 of the Act shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary as if subsection 1 of section 561 of the Act did not apply to any shares either for retention as treasury shares for future reissue, such sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: resale, transfer or for cancellation, provided that: 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 O E O Q U E E N S T R E E T L GEORGE STREET R E A 8 P R I N C E S S T R E E T WAT L LEITH WALK E E N I S I D E T H S T R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING a the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue Notes in favour of the holders of ordinary shares of 25 pence 1 As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to each in the Company Shares where the equity securities exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the respectively attributable to the interests of all such AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint more than practicable to the respective number of Shares held or one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights deemed or notionally held by them but subject to such attached to different shares.
You can only appoint a proxy using exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem the procedure set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements form.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in or to deal with problems under the laws, or requirements of, this notice or any related documents including the circular and any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose b the sale of treasury shares other than pursuant to paragraph other than those expressly stated.
a of this resolution of up to an aggregate nominal value 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a of 6,451,747 being 10% of the Companys issued Share proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority capital as at 14 May 2010: under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General received by post or during normal business hours only by hand Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011, save that the at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare Investor Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or enter into Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, an agreement which would or might require treasury shares to Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
com no later be sold after the expiry of such power, and the Directors of the than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any adjourned Company may sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or meeting.
agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through Special Business the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a or by logging on to the website www.
Special Resolution: CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, 10.
That with effect from the passing of this resolution: and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service i. the articles of association of the Company be amended by provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on deleting all of the provisions of the Companys Memorandum their behalf.
of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as part of the 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the Companys articles of association: CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message ii.
the articles of association of the Company be amended by a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in deleting all the provisions referred to in paragraph 42 of accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, schedule 2 of the Companies Act 2006 Commencement and must contain the information required for such instruction, No 8, Transitional Provisions and Savings Order 2008 as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless Statutory Instrument 2008 No.
2860 : and of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed iii.
the draft regulations produced to the meeting and, for the proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman of the received by the Companys registrar ID 3RA50 no later than meeting be adopted as the articles of association of the 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
Company in substitution for, and to the entire exclusion of, For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time the existing articles of association of the Company.
as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar is By order of the Board able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions Baillie Gifford & Co to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to Managers and Secretaries the appointee through other means.
25 May 2010 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, 11.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above does not apply Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those Notes can CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member publish, on its website, without payment a statement which is concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal also passed to the auditors setting out any matter relating to the member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to do so once it has received such requests from either members ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST must be made in writing and must state your full name and system and timings.
address and be sent to the Company at Calton Square, 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy 2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford 15.
As at 14 May 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the meeting the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid Form of consisted of 258,069,897 ordinary shares excluding treasury Direction.
shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities in the Company as at 14 May 2010 were 258,069,897 votes.
Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations under shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the Company no later than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in Company will be available at Royal London House, determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the 2225 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX and at the meeting.
registered office of the Company, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, during normal business hours on 10.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to excepted from the date of this notice of the AGM until the enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an conclusion of the AGM.
agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have 18.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
