FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information By quoting the reference number on your share certificate How to Invest you can check your holding on the Registrars website at The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through the Baillie They also offer a free, secure share management website service which allows you to: Gifford savings vehicles see page 52.
You can also find specific details about investing in Scottish Mortgage at view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of www.
your shares: Sources of Further Information on the Company calculate the total market price of each shareholding: The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and view price histories and trading graphs: can also be found on the Scottish Mortgage page of the Baillie update bank mandates and change address details: Gifford website at www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company use online dealing services: and factsheets are also available on the Baillie Gifford website and are pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in updated monthly.
These are available from Baillie Gifford on request.
AIC To take advantage of this service, please log in at www-uk.
com investor and enter your Shareholder Scottish Mortgage was one of the founding members of The Reference Number and Company Code this information can be Association of Investment Companies in 1932.
The AICs website found on the last dividend voucher or your share certificate.
co. uk contains detailed information about investment trusts, such as factsheets and statistics on the investment trust industry.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan The AIC also hold a series of private investor roadshows throughout Computershare operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which can be the year at which Baillie Gifford will be in attendance.
used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your dividend via Key Dates cheque or into your bank account.
For further information log in to www-uk.
com investor and follow the instructions Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect or telephone 0870 707 1694. of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid at the end of November and a final dividend is paid in early July.
The Annual Electronic Communications and Proxy Voting General Meeting is normally held in late June or early July.
If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to receive Capital Gains Tax communications from the Company, and vote, in electronic format.
This method reduces costs, is environmentally friendly and, for many, For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value is convenient too.
The paragraphs below explain how you can use adjusted for the bonus issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary share these services.
in the Company as at 31 March 1982 was 30.6p.
Electronic Communications If you would like to take advantage Share Register Enquiries of this service, please visit our Registrars website at Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share register on www-uk.
You will behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries regarding shares need your shareholder reference number which is on your share registered in your own name, please contact the Registrars on certificate and tax voucher to hand.
If you then agree to the 0870 707 1300. terms and conditions, in future, on the day that documents are This helpline also offers an automated selfservice functionality sent to shareholders by post, you will receive an e-mail providing the website address link to the documents.
After you register, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week which allows you to: paper documents will be available on request.
hear the latest share price: Electronic Proxy Voting You can also return proxies electronically confirm your current share holding balance: at www.
If you have registered for confirm your payment history: and electronic communications you will be issued a PIN number to use when returning proxies to the secure Registrar website.
order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and You do not need to register for electronic communications to Stock Transfer forms.
use electronic proxy voting, paper proxy forms will contain a PIN number to allow you to return proxies electronically.
If you have any questions about this service please contact Computershare on 0870 707 1300.
