COST-EFFECTIVE WAYS TO BUY AND HOLD SHARES IN SCOTTISH MORTGAGE Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Online Management Service You can also open and manage your Share Plan and or ISA online, BIG BIG through our secure Online Management Service OMS which can be ON THE FUTURE ON STRATEGY accessed through the Baillie Gifford website at www.
If youre looking for investment success it helps The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA and Share Plan to be completely open-minded.
Application Pack OMS enables you to apply for, open and administer a Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan or Investment Trust ISA online.
As well as being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also Our flagship fund, the Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust, is a global stock-picking fund thats completely free of asset allocation constraints.
Our fund managers simply allows you to: choose stocks and themes where they see real potential for growth.
Thats why China plays a large part in our We invest in strong companies thinking along with alternative energy and technological whose strategic planning and development.
After all, we believe that these are the areas management skills suggest that get current valuations: that will drive the worlds economic future.
their earnings will grow faster Please remember that changing stock market than their competitors.
conditions and currency exchange rates will affect the value of an investment in the fund and any income from it.
You may not get back the amount invested.
make lump sum investments: switch between investment trusts except where there is more than Call 0800 027 5227 or visit www.
com The Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust is available as a Share Plan or an ISA one holder : We may record your call.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited is the manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA and is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co, which is the manager and secretary of the Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
set up a direct debit to make regular investments: and Press advertisement for The Share Plan and ISA brochure update certain personal details.
com Risks Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of plans that Scottish Mortgage is listed on the stock market.
As a result, the value enable you to buy and hold shares of Scottish Mortgage cost-efficiently.
of its shares and any income from those shares is not guaranteed Purchases and sales are normally subject to a dealing price spread and and could go down as well as up.
You may not get back the amount Government stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
You should view your investment as long term.
As Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas securities, changes in the The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan rates of exchange may also cause the value of your investment and No initial charge any income it may pay to go down or up.
No annual wrapper charge Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to make further investments Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 repaid by the Company, the value of these investments may not be No maximum investment limits enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any Stop and start saving at any time with no charge borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Scottish Mortgage can buy back and cancel its own shares.
The risks A withdrawal charge of just 22 from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when a Company The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA buys back and cancels its shares.
Tax-efficient investment Scottish Mortgage charges 50% of the investment management fee and 50% of borrowing costs to capital which reduces the capital No set-up charge value.
Also, where income is low, the remaining expenses may be Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT greater than the total income received, meaning Scottish Mortgage Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a maximum of may not pay a dividend and the capital value would be further 10,200 each tax year reduced.
Save monthly from 100 The favourable tax treatment of ISAs may change.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 Details of other risks that apply to investment in the plans shown on this page are contained in the product brochures.
ISA Transfers Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC is a UK public listed Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Baillie company and as such complies with the requirements of the Gifford ISA UK Listing Authority.
It is not authorised and regulated by the Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Financial Services Authority.
Minimum transfer value 2,000 Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the manager The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan and The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to invest ISA.
BGSM is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co who are the for a child Managers and Secretaries of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust No initial charge PLC.
BGSM and Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated No annual wrapper charge by the Financial Services Authority and both are based at Calton The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of the child Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN.
Flexible investment options: lump sum from 250 or monthly saving The staff of Baillie Gifford & Co, and or the Directors of Scottish from just 30 Mortgage, may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage or may buy or A withdrawal charge of just 22 sell shares from time to time.
