COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communicating with Shareholders Trust magazine A Scottish Mortgage web page at www.
com If you are interested in investing directly in Scottish Mortgage, you can Promoting Scottish Mortgage do so online.
There are a number of companies offering real time online Baillie Gifford carries out extensive marketing activity to promote Scottish dealing services find out more on the Buying Shares section of Scottish Mortgage to institutional, intermediary and direct investors.
The Board Mortgages website www.
warmly supports the promotion of the plans described on page 52 in order to bring the merits of Scottish Mortgage to as wide an audience Suggestions and Questions as possible.
Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved are welcomed, so please do contact the Baillie Gifford Client Trust Magazine Relations Team see contact details below and give them your suggestions.
Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is published They will also be very happy to answer any questions you may have, three times a year.
It provides an insight to our investment approach by either about Scottish Mortgage or the plans described on page 52. including interviews with our fund managers, as well as containing investment trust news, investment features and articles about the trusts Literature in Alternative Formats managed by Baillie Gifford, including Scottish Mortgage.
Trust plays It is possible to provide copies of literature in alternative formats, such as an important role in helping to explain our products so that readers large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact the Relations Team for more information.
Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details opposite.
Further Information An online version of Trust can be found at www.
If you would like more information on any of the plans described All articles are available to read on screen and can now also be opposite please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team below.
Client Relations Team Contact Details Guides to Investment Trusts Telephone: 0800 027 0133 Baillie Gifford has produced three educational guides on investment E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
The first Understanding Investment Trusts is designed to explain www.
com how investment trusts work on a general level.
There is also a guide Fax: 0131 275 3955 on Investing for Children which explains, among other things, how investment trusts can be used to invest on behalf of a child.
A new guide Client Relations Team about investing in Emerging Markets is now also available.
If you would Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited like copies of these guides, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Calton Square Relations Team see contact details opposite.
1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Scottish Mortgage on the Web Website: www.
com Up-to-date information about Scottish Mortgage is on the Scottish Mortgages Your call may be recorded.
page of the Managers website at www.
In the For Scottish Mortgage specific queries, please use the following contact Investment Trust section you will find full details of Scottish Mortgage, including a monthly commentary, recent portfolio information and details: performance figures.
com You can also find a history of the Trust, an explanation of the effects of Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
gearing and a flexible performance reporting tool.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions about the suitability of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53
