APPENDIx TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The principal changes which would arise from the adoption of the Form of resolutions and convening meetings New Articles are set out below.
The existing Articles contain provisions referring to extraordinary resolutions and extraordinary general meetings.
These concepts The Companys memorandum of association have been abolished under the 2006 Act.
Meetings of shareholders the Memorandum other than annual general meetings are referred to simply as general The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently meetings.
Any resolution requiring a 75 per cent majority will be a set out in the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
The Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause The provisions of the existing Articles dealing with the convening of which sets out certain limits on the types of investments the Company general meetings and annual general meetings, the content of the may enter into and the scope of the activities the Company is notice and the length of notice required to convene such meetings authorised to undertake.
are amended in the New Articles to conform to the new provisions The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act significantly reduces the of the 2006 Act.
constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The 2006 Act provides that a memorandum will record only the names of Proxies subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of to take in the company.
Under the 2006 Act, the objects clause and hands, whereas under the existing Articles proxies are only entitled all other provisions which are currently contained in a companys to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment of proxies have memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, will be also been altered by the 2006 Act so weekends and bank holidays deemed to be contained in a companys articles but a company can can be excluded for the purposes of the timing for delivery of remove these provisions by special resolution.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each In addition, the 2006 Act states that unless a companys articles proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reflect these changes.
the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason, The New Articles also reflect the Uncertificated Securities Regulations the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with 2001 and the 2006 Act provisions by permitting shareholders all other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 holding uncertificated shares to appoint, instruct, amend and revoke Act, would otherwise be treated as forming part of the Companys proxy appointments using the CREST system.
The Company would therefore be unrestricted in respect of the types of investments it may enter into provided that it Chairmans casting vote was in accordance with the Companys investment policy and the The casting vote of the Chairman at shareholders meetings has guidelines set by the Board from time to time.
been removed as this is not permitted by the 2006 Act.
Change of name Periodic retirement of Directors Prior to 1 October 2009, a company could only change its name The Combined Code on Corporate Governance recommends that by special resolution.
Under the 2006 Act, a company will be able a director must submit himself herself for election by shareholders to change its name by other means provided for by its articles of at the first annual general meeting after his her appointment and association.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys The New Articles follow this recommendation.
Suspension of registration of share transfers Authorised share capital and unissued shares The Articles also permit the Board to suspend the registration of The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an share transfers.
Under the 2006 Act share transfers must be authorised share capital.
The Company is proposing changes to its registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the Companys Memorandum and articles of association to reflect this.
The Directors Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time this requirement.
allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Articles that duplicate statutory provisions 2006 Act.
Certain other provisions in the current Articles which replicate Issue of redeemable shares provisions contained in companies legislation are amended to The New Articles will explicitly confer authority on the Board to bring them into line with the 2006 Act.
determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of any issued redeemable shares in accordance with the 2006 Act, although this amendment would only have practical effect if the Company issues redeemable shares in the future.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Independent Auditors Chairman: JPHS Scott FCII FCSI Computershare Investor The Bank of Cenkos Securities plc KPMG Audit Plc Services PLC New York Mellon 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Saltire Court Dr MM Gray OBE DL PO Box 82 Yard 20 Castle Terrace Professor JA Kay FBA, FRSE The Pavilions London Edinburgh FC McBain MA Hons ACA Bridgwater Road EC2R 7AS EH1 2EG WG McQueen BSc CA FCIBS Bristol BS99 6ZZ Tel: 0870 707 1300 www.
7058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Office Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
