Financial statements Shareholder information Dividends Share Dealing Service Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed fi final dividend Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a telephone in respect of the year to 31 December 2010 will be payable on and internet share dealing service operated by Equiniti.
For telephone 17 June 2011 to those shareholders on the register on 17 May 2011. purchases and sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, or log on to www.
For the The record date and the payment date for the fi final dividend are sale of shares, you will need your shareholder reference number as subject to change due to the timing of the effective completion of the shown on your share certifi cate.
proposed acquisition of Eaga plc.
Any change to the above mentioned dates will be notifi ed to shareholders via a regulatory announcement.
Multiple Accounts on the Shareholder Register If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, because either your name or your address appear on each account arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into in a slightly different way.
For security reasons, Equiniti will not your bank or building society account.
This service has a number amalgamate the accounts without your written consent, so if you of benefi ts: would like any multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Equiniti at the address given on page 107. there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in the post the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid Shareview Electronic Communications directly into your account on the payment date without the need www.
co. uk is a service offered by Equiniti that enables to wait for the cheque to clear: and you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to you will help Carillion to improve its effi ciency by reducing printing organise your investments electronically.
You can also notify Equiniti and cheque clearing costs.
of a change of address or a change to dividend mandate instructions.
You can register for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure If you wish to register for this service please call Equiniti on the and free as long as you have access to the internet by logging on to number detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
Results Electronic Proxy Appointments Half year to 30 June 2011: announced August 2011 For the AGM to be held on 4 May 2011, you may, if you wish, register Full year to 31 December 2011: announced March 2012 the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website www.
Shareholder Enquiries Equiniti maintain the share register of the Company.
If you have You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8-digit any queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your details numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have change, please contact Equiniti: registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at www.
co. uk and click on the link vote under your Equiniti Carillion plc details, then follow the on-screen directions.
Aspect House Lancing Please note that any electronic communication that is found to West Sussex contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
BN99 6DA ShareGift Telephone 0871 384 2522 ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, Textphone for shareholders with hearing diffi culties 0870 600 3950 administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially for Non-UK callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047. those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
information can be obtained at www.
Calls to this number cost eight pence per minute from a BT landline, other providers costs may vary.
106 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
