Glossary Commercial real estate Advances-to-deposits ratio Includes ofce buildings, industrial property, medical centres, The ratio of total loans and advances to customers relative to total hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, multifamily customer deposits.
A low advances-to-deposits ratio housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
demonstrates that customer deposits exceed customer loans Commercial real estate loans are those backed by a package of resulting from emphasis placed on generating a high level of stable commercial real estate assets.
Contractual maturity Asset backed securities ABS Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of a loan Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced orother financial instrument, at which point all the remaining assets.
The referenced pool can comprise any assets which attract outstanding principal will be repaid and interest is due to be paid.
a set of associated cash ows but are commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages and in the case of Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs, the reference pool may be ABS.
Cost:Income ratio Represents the proportion of total operating expense to total Alt-A operating income.
Loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but they share higher risk characteristics than lending under normal criteria.
Cover ratio Represents the extent to which non-performing loans are covered Advanced internal rating based AIRB by impairment allowances.
The AIRB approach under the Basel II framework is used to calculate credit risk capital based on the Groups own estimates Commercial paper CP ofcertain parameters.
An unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term credit needs.
It species the face amount paid to investors on Attributable profit to ordinary shareholders the maturity date.
profit for the year after non-controlling interests and the declaration of dividends on preference shares classied as equity.
Constant currency Constant currency change is derived by applying a simple CAD2 translation of the previous period functional currency number in each An amendment to Capital Adequacy Directive that gives national entity using the current average and period end US dollar exchange regulators the discretion to permit rms to use their own value rates to the income statement and balance sheet respectively.
at risk model for calculating capital requirements subject to certain criteria.
Core Tier 1 capital Core Tier 1 capital comprises called-up ordinary share capital and Collateralised debt obligations CDOs eligible reserves plus non-controlling interests, less goodwill and Securities issued by a third party which reference ABSs and or other intangible assets and deductions relating to excess expected certain other related assets purchased by the issuer.
CDOs may losses over eligible provisions and securitisation positions as feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the specified by the UKs FSA Financial Services Authority.
Core Tier 1 capital ratio Collateralised loan obligation CLO Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets.
A security backed by the repayments from a pool of commercial loans.
The payments may be made to different classes of owners Credit conversion factor CCF in tranches.
CCF is an internally modelled parameter based on historical experience to determine the amount that is expected to be further Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS drawn down from the undrawn portion in a committed facility.
Securities that represent interests in a pool of commercial mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
242 242 S St ta an nd da ar rd d C Ch ha ar rte ter re ed A d An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 10 0 www.
com Financial statements and notes Glossary Credit default swaps CDS Exposures A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of Credit exposures represent the amount lent to a customer, anasset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the together with an undrawn commitments.
A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments Exposure at default EAD inreturn for contracting to make payments to the protection The estimation of the extent to which the Group may be exposed buyerupon a dened credit event.
Credit events normally include to a customer or counterparty in the event of, and at the time of, bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, that counterpartys default.
At default, the customer may not have ordowngrades by a rating agency.
drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the principal, so that exposure is typically less than the approved Credit risk spread loan limit.
The credit spread is the yield spread between securities with thesame coupon rate and maturity structure but with different Foundation internal ratings based approach associated credit risks, with the yield spread rising as the credit A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using rating worsens.
It is the premium over the benchmark or risk-free internal PD models but with supervisory estimates of LGD and rate required by the market to take on a lower credit quality.
conversion factors for the calculation of EAD.
Credit valuation adjustments CVA Funded unfunded exposures An adjustment to fair value primarily in respect of derivative Exposures where the notional amount of the transaction is funded contracts that reects the possibility that the counterparty may or unfunded.
Represents exposures where there is a commitment default such that the Group would not receive the full market to provide future funding is made but funds have been released valueof the transactions.
Customer deposits Guaranteed mortgages Money deposited by all individuals and companies that are not Mortgages for which there is a guarantor to provide the lender credit institutions.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities in the acertain level of financial security in the event of default of Groups balance sheet under Customer accounts.
Debt restructuring Impaired loans This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt Loans where individual identied impairment allowance has been agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve raised and also includes loans that are collateralised or where cash ow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can indebtedness has already been written down to the expected involve altering the repayment schedule as well as debt or interest realisable value.
The impaired loan category may include loans, charge reduction.
that, while impaired, are still performing.
Debt securities Impairment allowances Debt securities are assets on the Groups balance sheet and Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance sheet represent certicates of indebtedness of credit institutions, as a result of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred publicbodies or other undertakings excluding those issued loss.
An impairment allowance may either be identied or bycentral banks.
unidentified and individual or collective.
Debt securities in issue Individually collectively assessed Debt securities in issue are transferable certicates of Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually indebtedness of the Group to the bearer of the certicate.
These significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises are liabilities of the Group and include certicates of deposits.
homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
Typically, assets within the Wholesale Banking Delinquency business of the Group are assessed individually whereas assets A debt or other financial obligation is considered to be in a state of within the Consumer Banking business are assessed on delinquency when payments are overdue.
Loans are considered to acollective, or portfolio, basis.
be delinquent when consecutive payments are missed.
Internal ratings based IRB approach Dividend per share The IRB approach is used to calculate risk weighted assets Represents the entitlement of each shareholder in the share of the inaccordance with the Basel Capital Accord where capital profits of the company.
Calculated in the lowest unit of currency in requirements are based on a rms own estimates of which the shares are quoted.
Effective tax rate ETR Investment grade The tax on profits on ordinary activities as a percentage of profit on A debt security, treasury bill or similar instrument with a credit ordinary activities before taxation.
rating measured by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
Expected loss EL Leveraged finance The Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures captured Loans or other nancing agreements provided to companies under an internal ratings based credit risk approach for capital whose overall level of debt is high in relation to their cash ow adequacy calculations.
It is measured as the Group-modelled view netdebt : EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation of anticipated loss based on probability of default PD, loss given andamortisation typically arising from private equity sponsor default LGD and exposure at default EAD, with a one-year ledacquisitions of the businesses concerned.
com S St ta an nd da ar rd d C Ch ha ar rte ter re ed A d An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 10 0 24 243 3 Glossary Liquidity and credit enhancements Net interest income Credit enhancement facilities are used to enhance the The difference between interest received on financial assets and creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due interest paid on financial liabilities.
Two general types of credit enhancement are third-party loan guarantees and self-enhancement through Net interest margin .
Liquidity enhancement makes funds available The margin is expressed as net interest income divided by average if required, for other reasons than asset default, e. g. to ensure interest earning assets.
timely repayment of maturing commercial paper.
Net interest yield Liquid asset ratio Interest income divided by average interest earning assets less Ratio of total liquid assets to total assets.
Liquid assets comprise interest expense divided by average interest bearing liabilities.
cash less restricted balances, net interbank, treasury bills and debt securities less illiquid securities.
Non-performing loans A non performing loan is any loan that is more than 90 days past Loans and advances due or is otherwise individually impaired, other than a loan that is: This represents lending made under bilateral agreements with renegotiated before 90 days past due, and on which no default customers entered into in the normal course of business and is in interest payments or loss of principal is expected based on the legal form of the instrument.
An example of a loan product is a home loan.
renegotiated at or after 90 days past due, but on which there has been no default in interest or principal payments for more Loans to individuals than 180 days since renegotiation, and against which no loss Money loaned to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans may ofprincipal is expected be for car or home purchases, medical care, home repair, holidays, and other consumer uses.
Normalised earnings profit attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for profits Loan-to-value ratio orlosses of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment The loan-to-value ratio is a mathematical calculation that expresses transactions driven by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or the amount of a first mortgage lien as a percentage of the total exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the appraised value of real property.
The loan-to-value ratio isused in context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
determining the appropriate level of risk for the loan and therefore the correct price of the loan to the borrower.
Private equity investments Equity securities in operating companies generally not quoted on Loans past due apublic exchange.
Investment in private equity often involves the Loans on which payments have been due for up to a maximum investment of capital in private companies.
Capital for private of90 days including those on which partial payments are equity investment is raised by retail or institutional investors and beingmade.
used to fund investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and Loss given default LGD mezzanine capital.
LGD is the percentage of an exposure that a lender expects to lose in the event of obligor default.
Probability of default PD PD is an internal estimate for each borrower grade of the likelihood Master netting agreement that an obligor will default on an obligation.
An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single profit for the year after non-controlling interests and dividends currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any declared in respect of preference shares classied as equity.
Renegotiated loans Mezzanine capital Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part of Financing that combines debt and equity characteristics.
anongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse Forexample, a loan that also confers some profit participation change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case tothe lender.
renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a concessionary Mortgage backed securities MBS rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
Such assets will Securities that represent interests in a group of mortgages.
be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
In other cases, renegotiation may lead to a new agreement, which would be treated as a new loan.
Mortgage related assets Assets that are referenced to underlying mortgages.
Repo reverse repo A repurchase agreement or repo is a short-term funding Medium term notes MTNs agreement that allows a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as Corporate notes continuously offered by a company to investors ABS or Government bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of the through a dealer.
Investors can choose from differing maturities, agreement the borrower agrees to repurchase the security at some ranging from nine months to 30 years.
later date, usually less than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the party on the other end of the transaction buying the Net asset value per share security and agreeing to sell in the future it is a reverse repurchase Ratio of net assets total assets less total liabilities to the number agreement or reverse repo.
ofordinary shares outstanding at the end of a reporting period.
24 244 4 S St ta an nd da ar rd d C Ch ha ar rte ter re ed A d An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 10 0 www.
com Financial statements and notes Glossary Residential mortgage Sub-prime A loan to purchase a residential property that is then used as Sub-prime describes loans to borrowers typically having weakened collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives credit histories that include payment delinquencies and potentially the lender a lien against the property, and the lender can foreclose more severe problems such as court judgements and on the property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the bankruptcies.
They may also display reduced repayment capacity agreed terms.
as measured by credit scores, high debt-to-income ratios, or other criteria indicating heightened risk of default.
Return on equity Represents the ratio of the current years profit available for Tangible net asset value per share distribution to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average Ratio of parent shareholders equity less preference shares ordinary shareholders equity over the period under review.
classied as equity and goodwill and intangible assets tothe number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the Risk weighted assets reporting period.
A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with the Basel Tier 1 capital Capital Accord as implemented by the FSA.
Tier 1 capital comprises Core Tier 1 capital plus innovative Tier 1 securities and preference shares and tax on excess expected Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS losses less material holdings in credit or financial institutions.
Securities that represent interests in a group of residential mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash Tier 1 capital ratio received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets.
Securitisation Tier 2 capital Securitisation is a process by which debt instruments are Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated liabilities, aggregated into a pool, that is used to back new securities.
allowable portfolio impairment provision and unrealised gains in the Acompany sells assets to an SPE special purpose entity which eligible revaluation reserves arising from the fair valuation of equity then issues securities backed by the assets based on their value.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to be separated from thecredit rating of the original company and transfers risk to VaR external investors.
Value at Risk is an estimate of the potential loss that might arise from market movements under normal market conditions, if the Special purpose entities SPEs current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, SPEs are entities that are created to accomplish a narrow and measured to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
There are often specic restrictions or limitsaround their ongoing activities.
Working profit Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation.
Transactions with SPEs take a number of forms, including: Write-downs The provision of nancing to fund asset purchases, or After an advance has been identied as impaired and is subject to commitments to provide finance for future purchases an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is Derivative transactions to provide investors in the SPE concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
with aspecied exposure Write-downs will occur when, and to the extent that, the whole orpart of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
The provision of liquidity or backstop facilities which may be drawn upon if the SPE experiences future funding difficulties Direct investment in the notes issued by SPEs Standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using external credit assessment institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory dened percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines.
Structured finance notes A structured note is an investment tool that pays a return linked to the value or level of a specified asset or index and sometimes offers capital protection if the value declines.
Structured notes canbe linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
com S St ta an nd da ar rd d C Ch ha ar rte ter re ed A d An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 10 0 24 245 5
