Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Final Interim dividend Ordinary shares dividend Provisional only Results and dividend announced 2 March 2011 3 August 2011 Ex dividend date 9 March 2011 10 August 2011 Record date for dividend 11 March 2011 12 August 2011 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 26 April 2011 22 September 2010 Dividend payment date 11 May 2011 5 October 2010 1st half 2nd half Preference shares yearly dividend yearly dividend 3 7 per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2011 1 October 2011 8 1 8 4 per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2011 1 October 2011 6.409 per cent Non-Cumulative preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2011 30 July 2011 7.014 per cent Non-Cumulative preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2011 30 July 2011 8.125 per cent Non-Cumulative preference shares of $5 each 27 May 2011 27 November 2011 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 12.00 noon UK time 7.00 pm Hong Kong time on Thursday 5 May 2011 at The Honourable Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy votes cast can be found on the Companys website.
Interim results The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India and put on the Companys website.
ShareCare ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold your Standard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
Your shares will be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about keeping your share certicates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive your dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are no annual fees to pay.
If you would like to receive more information please visit our website at http: investors.
cfm or contact the shareholder helpline on 0870 702 0138.
com Financial statements and notes Shareholder information Donating shares to ShareGift Forward looking statements Shareholders who have a small number of shares often nd it It is possible that this document could or may contain forward uneconomical to sell them.
An alternative is to consider donating looking statements that are based on current expectations or them to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686, which beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These collects donations of unwanted shares until there are enough to forward looking statements can be identied by the fact that they sell and uses the proceeds to support UK charities.
Further do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward looking information can be obtained from the Companys Registrars or statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or from www.
estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could There is no implication for Capital Gains Tax no gain or loss when or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be you donate shares to charity and UK taxpayers may be able to placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they claim income tax relief on the value of their donation.
are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building society expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
Please register online at www.
co. uk or contact our registrar for a mandate form.
There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking Registrars and shareholder enquiries statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you hold to differ materially from those described in the forward looking your shares on the UK register, please contact our registrar statements are changes in the global, political, economic, Computershare Investor Services PLC, at The Pavilions, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7ZY.
There is a shareholder exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future helpline on 0870 702 0138.
If you hold your shares on the Hong business combinations or dispositions.
Kong branch register please contact: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any Queens Road East, Hong Kong.
forward looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result You can check your shareholding at: www.
co. uk of new information, future events or otherwise.
com If you would like a Chinese version of the 2010 Report and Accounts please contact: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to receive the Report and Accounts in either Chinese or English can change this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version of this Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
Taxation Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a shareholder in the UK, Hong Kong or the United States is set out in the dividend documents available at http: investors.
Electronic communications If you hold your shares on the UK register and in future you would like to receive the Report and Accounts electronically rather than by post, please register online at: www.
Then click on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your Shareholder or ShareCare Reference number when you log on.
You can nd this on your share certicate or ShareCare statement.
Once registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election electronically and change your bank mandate or address information.
