SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 57 1 Accounting policies Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The costs relating to defined benefit schemes are accounted for in the same way as for defined contribution schemes where the Group is unable to identify its share of the underlying performance and financial position of the plan with sufficient reliability for accounting purposes.
Such situations arise where the contributions payable by the Group are set in terms of the scheme as a whole and, as such, there is no consistent and reliable basis for allocating the Groups obligations, plan assets, or costs.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of the Company is pounds sterling, as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement and are allocated either to revenue or capital, as appropriate.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 1158 Income and Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost, including direct acquisition costs, less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost less estimated residual value of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Telecommunications and office equipment 10% 20% Leasehold improvements 10% Computer equipment 20% 33% The Group does not ordinarily provide for depreciation against art.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment purposes.
Assets are classified as cash equivalents if they are readily convertible to cash and are not subject to significant changes in value.
The Company has classified short-term bank deposits, investments in money market funds and short-dated treasury bills as cash equivalents.
