SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 88 Notes to the accounts 30 Risk A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the valuations on the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of shareholders funds, the results of which are set out in the table below.
Hypothetical Hypothetical Equity value value shareholders 10% 10% funds depreciation appreciation million million million 31 December 2010 Equity shareholders funds 945.7 1,038.8 852.6 Change in shareholders funds effect on income 9.8% 9.8% 31 December 2009 Equity shareholders funds 620.4 680.4 560.5 Change in shareholders funds effect on income 9.7% 9.7% Capital risk management The objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with long-term growth in capital.
In pursuing this long-term objective, the Board has a responsibility for ensuring the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
It must therefore maintain an appropriate capital structure through varying market conditions.
This involves the ability to: issue and buy-back share capital within limits set by the shareholders in general: and borrow monies in the short and long term.
Changes to ordinary share capital are set out in note 22.
Borrowings are set out in notes 19 and 20.
General risks associated with investment in private equity Investment in private equity involves a high degree of risk.
The Group invests in private equity through its exposure to buy-out and development capital funds.
Such investments are illiquid and as such may be difficult to realise, particularly within a short timeframe.
The Directors seek to maintain a diversified portfolio of investments to mitigate these risks, although the portfolio does remain concentrated with respect to private equity fund managers and also to vintage as explained in concentration risk on page 87.
Default risk A funds documentation generally provides for certain penalties in the event that an investor in the fund fails to meet a call.
There is typically a grace period during which interest accrues on the unpaid amount.
If the default continues, the investor may become subject to various sanctions, including termination of the investors right to participate in future investments, loss of its entitlement to distributions or income but not its liability for losses or expenses, mandatory transfer or sale of its interest, continuing liability for the principal and interest in respect of the defaulted amount and partial or total forfeiture of the investors interest.
In addition, the general partner or manager may have other rights and remedies including legal remedies.
Theinvestor may also remain liable for future calls in respect of the relevant fund as and when they are made.
There can be no assurance as to the price which may be achieved in any mandatory transfer or sale following a default on a call.
Certain funds give the general partner or manager the right to proceed directly to forfeiture proceedings following notice and continuation of default by an investor.
In the case of a forfeiture, the share of the fund held by the defaulting investor would generally be allocated among the general partner or manager and the remaining investors.
In addition, the investor may remain liable for the defaulted amount.
Consequently, any failure by SVG Capital to meet any call may have a material adverse effect on the value of SVG Capitals interest in a fund and or on the net asset value of SVG Capital and or on SVG Capitals ability to generate returns for its Shareholders.
In addition, a failure to meet a call may result in a cross-default under the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility which could result in a substantial loss.
If another investor or limited partner in a fund in which the Company holds an interest were to default on a call, this may result in the other investors including the Company in the fund in question becoming subject to individual calls of a larger amount but subject to each investors original capital commitment and, in addition, the fund in question may make fewer or smaller or more highly leveraged investments.
Any such occurrence may lead to a reduction in the diversification of the Companys interests in underlying portfolio companies, increase volatility, increase the Companys financing requirements and may have an adverse effect on the Companys business and prospects.
Investment holding risk period Investment in private equity requires a long term commitment with no certainty of return.
Many of the investments made by the Group are illiquid holdings in buy-out and development capital funds and, in some cases, may not be capable of being realised in a timely manner or at all.
The timing of cash distributions, if any, made by the buy-out and development capital funds is uncertain and unpredictable.
Recent market conditions have made it more difficult for general partners or other managers of private equity funds to dispose of investments at attractive prices and otherwise on favourable terms.
The Company considers that, although signs of improvement are present, it is likely that these difficult circumstances will ease but continue inthe short to medium term and, while they do continue, it may be that the returns of the Company from its investments will be reduced and ordelayed.
Any further material change in the economic environment, including a continued slow-down in economic growth and or changes in interest rates orforeign exchange rates, could have a negative impact on the performance and or valuation of the underlying portfolio companies.
SVG Capitals performance may be affected by prolonged weakness or further deterioration in public markets and by market events, which may impact on not only its quoted portfolio companies but also the public company comparable earnings multiples used to value unquoted portfolio companies.
A further consequence of the subdued market for portfolio companies exits is that the general partners, or other managers, of the private equity funds in which the Company holds interests are more likely to delay disposing of portfolio companies until market conditions improve.
As a result, the Company is likely to receive distributions in respect of its investments at a slower rate than may have otherwise been the case in a more favourable economic environment.
In addition to this, a fund managers ability to realise its interest in certain portfolio companies in whole or in part may be subject to contractual restrictions such as shareholder lock-up arrangements.
It may therefore be the case that the Company decides to pay calls with debt finance rather than relying upon receiving distributions from investments which it has made which may therefore increase the Companys
