SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 58 Notes to the accounts 2 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of profits and net assets at the end of the reporting period.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that have a material impact on net assets in future periods.
The key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to net assets within the next financial year are discussed below.
Other areas of uncertainty and risk are discussed in note 30.
Fair value of financial instruments The Group primarily invests in private equity limited partnerships Funds that in turn invest in companies that are typically unquoted.
Valuing unquoted investments involves a significant degree of judgement.
Fair values of the Funds in which the Group invests are typically provided by the general partner of such funds and are reviewed and, if considered appropriate, approved by the Board.
The fair value of a Funds investment in an investee company is generally obtained by calculating the Enterprise Value EV of the company and then deducting financial instruments, such as external debt, ranking ahead of the Funds highest ranking instrument in the company.
A common method of determining the EV is to apply a market-based multiple e. g. an average multiple based on a selection of comparable quoted companies to the normalised earnings of the investee company.
This market-based approach presumes that the comparator companies are correctly valued by the market.
A discount is sometimes applied to market based multiples to adjust for points of difference between the comparators and the company being valued.
Where the fair value of financial assets recorded in the Groups balance sheet cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques, in accordance with IPEV Valuation Guidelines, including the methodology briefly outlined above.
The valuation techniques recommended by the IPEV Board are industry standard.
However, amounts ultimately realised on disposal of an investee company can differ materially from the previous carrying value and therefore have a significant impact on the Groups profits and net assets.
Taxes Uncertainties exist with respect to the amount and timing of future taxable income.
Significant deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of brought-forward tax losses that the Company can utilise to offset future taxable profits.
Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
The Company expects to derive returns primarily in the form of capital gains on its investment portfolio.
As an investment trust, the Company is exempt from corporation tax on capital gains.
Recovery of contingent fees Uncertainty exists with respect to the recoverability of certain investment advisory fees that are contingent on future events, such as investors receiving a return of capital.
Management judgement is required to determine the probability that fees are recoverable and whether that probability is high enough to recognise income in respect of those fees.
3 Business segments For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into the following two principal activities: Investing activities SVG Capitals investment objective is to achieve capital appreciation by investing principally in private equity funds that are managed or advised by Permira, an international private equity specialist.
In addition, the Company invests in private equity funds that invest in Japan, North America, Asia and the life sciences sectors, and in unquoted and quoted businesses through specialist funds and co-investments alongside these funds.
Investing activities are undertaken by SVG Capital plc, SVG India LP and The Platinum Trust.
A further segmental analysis within investment activities is the Groups exposure to Permira and non-Permira investments.
Investment management and advisory services To complement this investment objective and create capital and income for the Company, its fund advisory businesses structure, market, manage and advise products for investment in private equity and in public equity using private equity techniques.
Investment management and advisory services are provided by SVG Advisers Limited SVGA, SVG Managers Limited SVGM, SVG Advisers Inc. SVGI, SVG North America SVGNA, SVG Advisers Singapore Limited Pte.
SVGS and SVG Investment Managers Limited SVGIM.
Investment management and advisory services can be further sub-divided into the following three main business areas: SVGA external private equity investment management and advisory services provided by SVGA, SVGNA and SVGS.
SVGIM public equity investment management services provided by SVGIM, plus the ancillary operations of SVGM and SVGI.
Other intra-Group services provided by SVGA to SVG Capital and the Permira feeder vehicles.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 59 3 Business segments These activities are undertaken by SVG Advisers Limited, SVG Managers Limited, SVG Investment Managers Limited, SVG Advisers Singapore Pte.
Limited, SVG Advisers Inc. and SVG North America Inc. Segmental information showing the performance of these business segments is presented below: For the year ended 31 December 2010 For the year ended 31 December 2009 Investment Investment management management Investing and advisory Investing and advisory activities services Eliminations Total activities services Eliminations Total Group 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Income from investment advisory services 24,643 24,643 28,830 28,830 Other operating and investment income 11,407 135 11,542 2,977 107 3,084 Intra-group income 3,470 5,933 9,403 13,780 4,898 18,678 14,877 30,711 9,403 36,185 16,757 33,835 18,678 31,914 Performance shares and options fair value & N. I.
