SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 54 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company and the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for the Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the financial statements have been prepared on a basis compliant with the SORP.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors consider that for the foreseeable future the Group will continue to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
Summary of new standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS IAS 24 Related party disclosures Amendment 1 January 2011 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights issues Amendment 1 February 2010 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2013 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Amendment 1 January 2011 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 The effective dates stated are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Financial statements of all Group companies are prepared for the same reporting period.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Presentation of income statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the Companys contractual right to the cash flow from the asset expires or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the contractual obligation is discharged, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
