SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 87 30 Risk Holdings risk In certain circumstances, the Company may wish to transfer its holdings in particular funds.
In a majority of the funds in which the Company will invest, the general partner, trustee or manager has the ultimate right, similar to that exercisable by a board of a private company, to refuse to register the transfer of an interest.
While the Company has no reason to believe that any request for the transfer of an interest would be refused, it is of course conceivable that the general partners, trustees or managers overriding fiduciary duty could result in its refusing to register a particular transfer proposed by the Company.
Concentration risk The Directors believe that the diversified nature of the underlying investments in the Groups private equity fund portfolio reduces the risks normally associated with making investments in the buy-out and development capital markets.
However, it should be noted that, in accordance with its stated investment objective, the Group intends to focus its investments principally in private equity funds that are managed or advised by Permira.
As outlined in note 9, the future performance of the Group will therefore be largely dependent on the future performance of the Permira funds in which we invest see notes 3 and 31 for an indication of the Groups exposures.
The Directors believe that this represents an opportunity, but investors should also be aware that greater concentration of the investment portfolio also presents a risk.
The performance of Permira funds depends to a significant extent upon the skills and experience of Permira and its personnel.
The continued service of these individuals is not guaranteed and there can be no assurance that key individuals can be replaced with equally skilled and experienced professionals by Permira.
Therefore, the departure of one or several key investment professionals or partners at Permira may have an adverse effect on the performance of the Company and the value and trading price ofthe Ordinary Shares.
Each fund investment proposition is considered by the Board in accordance with a structured investment process.
This includes presentations from the manager of the proposed fund, extensive due diligence, consideration of the terms and conditions for investment in the fund, consideration of the Groups own cash flows and future commitments and a review of the effect of any such investment on portfolio concentration.
Interest rate risk The Groups revenue will be affected by changes in prevailing interest rates since a large portion of its income ordinarily derives from money market instruments and bank deposit interest.
It also pays interest on its Senior Notes and drawings on the loan facility that may be taken out from time to time.
The Companys primary objective is to achieve capital returns from its investments and, as such, the main exposure to interest rate risk is indirect, through its impact on the valuation of the private equity funds, although it is not possible to quantify such effects.
Interest rates are one of the key determinants of economic growth.
At a more specific level, interest rates and credit spreads also have an important role in the ability of private equity funds to secure profitable deals, as many transactions are partly financed by debt.
The effect of interest rate changes on the valuation of investments and debt forms part of valuation risk, which is considered separately.
At 31 December 2010, the Group held investments in AAA-rated money market funds valued at 9.6 million 2009: 126.4 million, earning interest at market rates.
The money market funds are redeemable on less than 24 hours notice.
Other floating rate financial assets comprised cash at bank or short-term deposits.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had 198.5 million 2009: 220.6 million of Senior Notes in issue and 101.9 million 2009: 100.1 million of Convertible Bonds see note 20.
Interest rate risk on the Senior Notes and the Bonds is mitigated as the Bonds and most of the Notes pay fixed ratesof interest and swap agreements have been taken out with respect to the relatively small amount of floating rate notes FRNs, although the majority of the FRNs either have or will be repurchased.
The weighted average interest rate payable on the Notes and the swaps amounted to 8.7% at31 December 2010.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps included in the balance sheet amount to a liability of 888,000 at 31December 2010 2009liability of 775,000 and have been valued by The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the swap counterparty.
Credit risk There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed.
The Group is subject to credit risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to cash and cash equivalents is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
TheGroups cash and deposits are held with a variety of counterparties with a credit rating of AA or better.
Cash equivalents at the year end comprised money market funds with a variety of counterparties, each fund having a credit rating of AAA.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk directly since the majority of its assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currency and their sterling value can be significantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The Company does not normally hedge against foreign currency movements affecting the value of its investments, but takes account of this risk when making investment decisions.
The Group has issued Senior Notes of US$245.1 million and 6.9 million, respectively.
As described in note 20 the Company has taken out a currency swap to effectively convert $180.0 million of Senior Notes into a euro exposure, which acts as a partial hedge against the currency risk on the value of its euro-denominated assets.
A fair value gain of 0.9 million has been recognised in respect of this.
The Group also has a 325.0 million loan facility which, if drawn, would also act as a hedge against the currency risk on the value of its euro-denominated assets.
The Group has also entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate against movements in exchange rates.
These contracts are primarily to provide a cash flow hedge against euro-denominated investment management and advisory fees receivable by subsidiary companies in 2010 and 2011.
The total outstanding under such contracts at 31 December 2010 amounted to a sale of 36.4million 2009: 18 million in exchange for 30.8 million 2009: 14.6 million.
A fair value loss of 0.6 million 2009: 1.4 million was taken to equity in respect of these contracts as a result of the appreciation of euro against sterling since the contracts were entered into.
