SVG Capital plc SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 Glossary of terms 97 01 Welcome to SVG Capital plc Early-stage Distributions 02 SVG Capital at a glance Seed: Payments to investors after the realisation of investments of the 06 Chairmans statement partnership.
08 Chief Executives statement Financing provided to allow a business concept to be developed, perhaps involving production of prototypes and additional research, prior to bringing a product to market.
Divestments or realisations or exits Start-up: Exits of investments, usually via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Public Offering on a stock market.
Financing provided to companies for the use in product development and initial marketing.
Companies may be in the process of being set up or may have been in business for a short time, but have not sold their Draw downs calls product commercially.
Payments to the partnership by investors in order to finance investments.
Other early-stage: Funds are drawn down from investors on a deal-by-deal basis.
Financing provided to companies that have completed the product 10 Introduction 10 Investment objective development stage and require further funds to initiate commercial Fund of funds 10 Investment policy manufacturing and sales.
They will not yet be generating profit.
10 Key performance indicators Private equity funds whose principal activity consists of investing in other 11 Strategy private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds can thereby increase their 13 Marketplace Late-stage level of diversification.
14 Financial review Expansion financing: 15 Investment portfolio review 20 20 largest underlying companies Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a company which is Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage 23 Fund management businesses breaking even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to finance 24 Contractual arrangements The level of a companys borrowings as a percentage of increased production capacity, market or product development and or 24 Risks and risk management shareholderfunds.
Capital provided for turnaround 26 List of investments Group situations is also included in this category.
Hurdle rate Management Buy-Out MBO : 28 Board of Directors Arrangement that caps the downside risk for investors.
It allows investors Funds provided to enable current operating management and investors 30 Report of the Directors to get preferential access to the profits of the partnership.
In the absence to acquire an existing business.
33 Remuneration report of reaching the hurdle return, general partners will not receive a share of 38 Corporate governance Management Buy-In MBI : the profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% means that the private 42 Corporate social responsibility equity fund needs to achieve a return of at least 10% before the profits Funds provided to enable a manager or group of managers from are shared according to the carried interest arrangement.
outside the Company to buy into the Company.
We are... Limited partnership Follow-on investment SVG Capital an international Most private equity firms structure their funds as limited partnerships.
A company which has previously received private equity.
Investors represent the limited partners and private equity managers the private equity investor and fund general partners.
Secondary purchase management business listed Purchase of existing shares in a company from another private equity 45 Independent auditors report Realisation firm, or from other shareholders.
46 Consolidated income statement The sale of an investment.
46 Consolidated statement of on the London Stock Exchange.
comprehensive income Public to private 47 Company income statement Secondary market 47 Company statement of comprehensive income Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock exchange 48 Consolidated statement of changes in equity The secondary market enables institutional investors to sell their stakes in with the intention of fide-listing the company and taking it private.
49 Company statement of changes in equity a private equity partnership before it is wound up.
50 Consolidated balance sheet 51 Company balance sheet General Terms 52 Consolidated cash flow statement Trade sale 53 Company cash flow statement Carried interest carry.
54 Notes to the accounts Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another company.
Carried interest or simply carry represents the share of a private equity funds profit usually 20% that will accrue to the general partners.
Turnaround 91 Notice of Annual General Meeting Committed funds or raised funds or committed capital is capital 95 Company summary and E-communications committed by investors.
This will be requested or drawn down by A loss-making company which can be successfully transformed into a forshareholders private equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is different profit maker.
96 Advisers from invested funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will invest Further information on our website 96 Financial calendar only between 80% and 95% of committed funds.
Second, one has to 97 Glossary of terms deduct the annual management fee which is supposed to cover the cost www.
com of operation of a fund.
Company information Financial information Corporate information Business review Overview Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 SVG Capital plc Head office 61 Aldwych London WC2B 4AE Telephone 020 7010 8900 Fax 020 7010 8950 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report has been printed on Hello Silk a paper which is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council.
The paper is made at a mill with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management system accreditation.
This report was printed using vegetable oil based inks and 100% renewable energy by a CarbonNeutral printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the EcoManagement Audit Scheme.
