SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 56 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies Convertible loan notes Convertible loan notes are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible loan notes and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity.
Issue costs are allocated proportionately to the liability and equity components.
The liability component is accounted for as a borrowing.
Bank borrowings and loan notes Interest-bearing bank loans and loan notes issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Own shares Own shares represent SVG Capital plc shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts to meet the future requirements of the employee share-based payment plans.
The EBTs are accounted for as extensions of the parent company.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled share-based payments with employees of the Group are measured at fair value at the date of grant and recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate valuation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the consolidated income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The cost of equity awards to employees of subsidiaries is added to the Companys investment in subsidiaries.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services provided in the normal course of business.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Interest income is classified within operating activities in the cash flow statement.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established and is classified within operating activities in the cash flow statement.
Investment management and advisory fees are accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
Revenue that has been earned, but the receipt of which is contingent on the occurrence of a future event, such as investors receiving a return of capital, has not been recognised.
The Groups revenue and realised capital gains are derived primarily from distributions in respect of its holdings in fund investments.
Realised gains on capital distributions which arise from the realisation of investments within the funds, and on sale of investments are credited to the income statement and taken to the capital reserve.
Income distributions are credited to the income statement and taken to the revenue reserve.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessee Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
