Active investment working for you Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The preparation of the Groups financial statements Fair value of financial instruments requires the directors to make judgements, estimates and When the fair value of financial assets and financial assumptions that affect the reported amounts recognised liabilities recorded in the Statement of Financial Position in the financial statements and disclosure of contingent cannot be derived from active markets, their fair value is liabilities.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions determined using a variety of valuation techniques that and estimates could result in outcomes that could require a include the use of mathematical models.
The inputs to material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or these models are taken from observable markets where liability affected in future periods.
possible but, where this is not feasible, estimation is required in establishing fair values.
The estimates include Judgements considerations of liquidity and model inputs such as credit In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, risk both own and counterparty, correlation and volatility.
the directors have made the following judgements, which Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised the reported fair value of financial instruments in the in the financial statements: Statement of Financial Position and the level where the instruments are disclosed in the fair value hierarchy.
The Going concern models are calibrated regularly and tested for validity using The Groups directors have made an assessment of the prices from any observable current market transactions in Groups ability to continue as a going concern and is the same instrument without modification or repackaging satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in or based on any available observable market data.
business for the foreseeable future.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any material uncertainties that Taxes may cast significant doubt upon the Groups ability to Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of continue as a going concern.
Therefore, the financial complex tax regulations and changes in tax laws on foreign statements continue to be prepared on the going concern withholding tax.
Given the wide range of international basis.
investments, differences arising between the actual investment income and the assumptions made, or future Functional currency changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future The primary objective of the Group is to generate returns adjustments to tax expense already recorded.
The Group in Pounds Sterling, its capital-raising currency.
The liquidity establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for of the Group is managed on a day-to-day basis in Sterling possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of as the Groups performance is evaluated in that currency.
the respective countries in which it invests.
The amounts of Therefore, the management considers Pounds Sterling as such provisions are based on various factors, such as the currency that most faithfully represents the economic experience of previous tax audits and differing effects of the underlying transactions, events and interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and conditions.
Such differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues Estimates and assumptions depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective The key assumptions concerning the future and other key investments domicile.
As the Group assesses the sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date probability for litigation and subsequent cash outflow with that have a significant risk of causing a material respect to taxes as remote, no contingent liability has been adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised.
within the next financial year are discussed below.
The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the consolidated financial statements were prepared.
However, existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments may change due to market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group.
Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
36 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
