Active investment working for you Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURES Equity dividends payable Improvements to IFRS Equity dividends payable are recognised when the In May 2008 and April 2009, the IASB issued an omnibus of shareholders right to receive payment is established.
amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are Finance costs separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The Interest payable on debentures in issue is accrued at the adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes effective interest rate.
In accordance with the expected to accounting policies, but did not have any impact on the long-term division of returns, 40% of the interest for the financial position or performance of the Group.
year is charged to revenue, and the other 60% is charged Issued in April 2009 to capital, net of any incremental corporation tax relief.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments: This clarifies that segment assets and liabilities need only Investment in subsidiaries be reported when those assets and liabilities are included Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost.
in measures that are used by the chief operating decision maker.
The adoption of the amendment had no impact on Cash and cash equivalents the Groups segment disclosure since the Group is Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single organised into only one operating segment.
class of asset on the Statement of Financial Position Other amendments resulting from Improvements to comprise cash at bank and in hand and deposits with an IFRS to the following standards did not have any impact on original maturity of three months or less.
the accounting policies, financial position or performance The carrying value of these assets approximates their of the Group: fair value.
Issued in May 2008 IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations issued in April 2009 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 2 COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows presenting its own Statement of Comprehensive Income IAS 17 Leases provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 16 Hedge of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35
