Active investment working for you Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5 STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE Standards issued but not yet effective at the date of IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed Instruments: below.
IFRIC 19 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies that equity IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment : instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a financial The amended standard is effective for annual periods liability qualify as consideration paid.
The equity beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
It clarifies the instruments issued are measured at their fair value.
In case definition of a related party to simplify the identification of this cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at the such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its fair value of the liability extinguished.
Any gain or loss is application.
The revised standard introduces a partial recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The adoption of exemption of disclosure requirements for governmentthis interpretation will have no effect on the financial related entities.
The Group does not expect any impact on statements of the Group.
its financial position or performance.
Early adoption is permitted for either the partial exemption for  to IFRSs issued in May 2010 : related entities or for the entire standard.
The IASB issued Improvements to IFRS, an omnibus of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation & Classification amendments to its IFRS standards.
The amendments have of Rights Issues: not been adopted as they become effective for annual The amendment to IAS 32 is effective for annual periods periods on or after either 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011. beginning on or after 1 February 2010 and amends the IFRS 3 Business Combinations definition of a financial liability in order to classify rights IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures issues and certain options or warrants as equity IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements instruments in cases where such rights are given pro rata to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements all of the existing owners of the same class of an entitys IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes non-derivative equity instruments, or to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed The Group expects no impact from the adoption of the amount in any currency.
This amendment will have no amendments on its financial position or performance.
The impact on the Group after initial application.
adoption of the amendment to IFRS 7 is expected to have a limited impact on the disclosure of credit risk.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement: IFRS 9 applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
In subsequent phases, the Board will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition.
The completion of this project is expected in early 2011.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Amendment : The amendment to IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, with retrospective application.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The amendment is deemed to have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 37
