Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued The Board has also established a series of investment Stewardship engagement parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit The Manager recognises its wider stewardship the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent end, it supports the introduction of the FRC Stewardship reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional reconciled.
shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the The effectiveness of the overall system of internal Code, managers should: control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge system can provide only reasonable and not absolute their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: believes that there is a robust framework of internal monitor their investee companies: controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC establish clear guidelines on how they escalate Code.
engagement: The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal be willing to act collectively with other investors where control matters and does not believe that there is scope or appropriate: necessity for an internal audit function in addition to that have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their employed by the Manager.
Based on the foregoing the voting record: and Group has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating report to clients.
and managing the risks it faces.
This process has been in The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK place for the reporting period and to the date of this report investments and supports the principles as best practice and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with the requirements of the Internal Control Guidance for the companies in which it invests is central to its Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance investment process and it also recognises the importance and the Combined Code.
of being an active owner on behalf of its clients.
The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Socially responsible investment Guidelines are available on request from the Company The Board believes that its primary duty is to act in the Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
best financial interests of the Group and its shareholders.
While the Board takes account of the ethical stance of investee companies on matters such as the environment or society as a whole, the ultimate objective is to deliver superior investment returns for shareholders.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25
