Active investment working for you Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting Income The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Company have been prepared in accordance with Groups right to receive payment has been established, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which normally the ex-dividend date.
comprise standards and interpretations approved by the Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount International Accounting Standards and Standing of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the excess in the value of shares received over the amount of International Accounting Standards Committee IASC cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
been adopted by the European Union.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare Functional and Presentational Currency the financial statements on a basis compliant with the The financial statements are prepared in Pounds Sterling recommendations of the SORP.
because that is the currency of the primary economic All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds environment in which the Group operates.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Basis of consolidation Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are The consolidated financial statements incorporate the translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling financial statements of the Group and entities controlled on the year-end date.
Foreign exchange differences arising by the Group its subsidiaries made up to 31 December on translation are recognised in the Consolidated each year.
Control is achieved where the Group has the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Expenses All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In are eliminated on consolidation.
respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the Consolidated Statement of Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, all expenses have been presented Comprehensive Income as revenue items except as follows: In order better to reflect the activities of an investment Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by sales of investments designated as fair value through the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the profit or loss are expensed to capital in the Consolidated Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Comprehensive Income.
between items of a revenue and capital nature has been Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of where a connection with the maintenance or Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Groups enhancement of the value of the investments held can status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of be demonstrated and, accordingly, the investment the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be management fee and finance costs have been allocated distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net 40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to reflect revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in the directors long-term view of the nature of the assessing the Groups compliance with certain expected investment returns of the Group.
requirements set out in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33
