Active investment working for you Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting Income The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Company have been prepared in accordance with Groups right to receive payment has been established, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which normally the ex-dividend date.
comprise standards and interpretations approved by the Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount International Accounting Standards and Standing of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the excess in the value of shares received over the amount of International Accounting Standards Committee IASC cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
been adopted by the European Union.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare Functional and Presentational Currency the financial statements on a basis compliant with the The financial statements are prepared in Pounds Sterling recommendations of the SORP.
because that is the currency of the primary economic All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds environment in which the Group operates.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Basis of consolidation Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are The consolidated financial statements incorporate the translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling financial statements of the Group and entities controlled on the year-end date.
Foreign exchange differences arising by the Group its subsidiaries made up to 31 December on translation are recognised in the Consolidated each year.
Control is achieved where the Group has the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Expenses All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In are eliminated on consolidation.
respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the Consolidated Statement of Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, all expenses have been presented Comprehensive Income as revenue items except as follows: In order better to reflect the activities of an investment Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by sales of investments designated as fair value through the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the profit or loss are expensed to capital in the Consolidated Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Comprehensive Income.
between items of a revenue and capital nature has been Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of where a connection with the maintenance or Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Groups enhancement of the value of the investments held can status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of be demonstrated and, accordingly, the investment the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be management fee and finance costs have been allocated distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net 40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to reflect revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in the directors long-term view of the nature of the assessing the Groups compliance with certain expected investment returns of the Group.
requirements set out in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 Active investment working for you Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Management charge instrument.
The Group shall offset financial assets and In accordance with the expected long-term division of financial liabilities if the Group has a legally enforceable returns, 40% of the investment management fee for the year right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and is charged to revenue and the other 60% is charged to intends to settle on a net basis.
Financial assets and capital, net of incremental corporation tax relief and liabilities are derecognised when the Group settles its inclusive of any related irrecoverable value added tax.
obligations relating to the instrument.
Investments in funds managed by the Investec Group are wholly excluded from this charge.
Other receivables Other receivables do not carry any interest, are short-term Taxation in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value The tax expenses represent the sum of the tax currently as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based irrecoverable amounts.
on the taxable profit for the year.
The taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the Consolidated Investments Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration in other years and it further excludes items that are never given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is associated with the investment.
calculated using tax rates that have been or are After initial recognition, investments, which are substantively enacted by the year-end date.
designated as at fair value through profit or loss, are In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the measured at fair value.
Gains or losses on investments allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses designated as at fair value through profit or loss are presented against capital returns in the supplementary included in net profit or loss as a capital item and information in the Consolidated Statement of transaction costs on acquisition or disposal of investments Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
For investments that are actively traded in basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset organised financial markets, fair value is determined by by expenses in the revenue column of the income reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital the close of business on the year-end date.
All purchases and sales of investments are recognised on Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts purchase or sell an asset.
of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Financial liabilities and equity instruments computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities according to the substance of the contractual are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of probable that taxable profits will be available against which the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are Interest bearing borrowings expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled Interest bearing borrowings, being the debenture stocks or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited issued by the Group, are initially recognised at cost, being in the revenue return column of the income statement, the proceeds received net of issue cost associated with the except when it relates to items charged or credited directly borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest bearing to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost in equity.
using the effective interest method.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for Other payables taxation on capital gains.
Other payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 34 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
