Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above 5.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on appointment service may do so for the meeting and a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures member of the Group.
A member wishing to appoint described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in members or other CREST sponsored members and respect of a specified number of shares within his those CREST members who have appointed a voting holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and or voting service provider s who will be able to take must indicate the number of shares in respect of which the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a 2.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications Sussex BN99 6LT so as to arrive no later than 11.00am and must contain the information required for such on 25 March 2011.
Completion and return of the form instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending via www.
The CREST message must and voting at the meeting in person should they wish be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent to do so.
ID RA19 by not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the 3.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Group in adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt uncertificated form must have been entered on the will be taken to be the time as determined by the Groups register of members by 6.00pm on 25 March timestamp applied to the CREST message by the CREST 2011 in order to be able to attend and vote at the Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able meeting, or if the meeting is adjourned, two business to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST in days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any Such members may only vote at the meeting in change of instructions to proxies appointed through respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that persons nominated to receive information rights under Euroclear does not make available special procedures in Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system information rights under Section 146 of the Act who timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take the Act, that they may have a right under an or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal agreement with the registered member by whom they member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they voting service provider takes such action as shall be have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted may have a right under such an agreement to give by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, rights.
Nominated persons should contact the their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are registered member by whom they were nominated in referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST respect of these arrangements.
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Group may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
50 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES CONTINUED 6.
Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the 8.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold notice of meeting to communicate with the Company requirements set out in that section have the right to for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
require the Group to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: 9.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to i the audit of the Groups accounts including the ask questions.
The Group must cause to be answered auditors report and the conduct of the audit that any such question relating to the business being dealt are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for with at the meeting but no such answer need be given the financial year beginning 1 January 2010: or if a to do so would interfere unduly with the ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure Group appointed for the financial year 1 January of confidential information, b the answer has already 2010 ceasing to hold office since the previous been given on a website in the form of an answer to a meeting at which annual accounts and reports were question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the laid.
The Group may not require the shareholders Group or the good order of the meeting that the requesting any such website publication to pay its question be answered.
expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the 10.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Group is required to Group.
place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the 11.
As at 23 February 2011, the latest practicable date statement to the Groups auditor not later than the prior to publication of this document, the Group had time when it makes the statement available on the 58,961,367 ordinary shares in issue with a total of website.
The business which may be dealt with at the 58,961,367 voting rights.
Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Group has been 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of 2006 to publish on a website.
the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the 7.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, authorise a person or persons to act as its members resolutions or members matters of business representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the received by the Group after the date of this notice will provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such be available on the Groups website: representative may exercise on behalf of the www.
corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 51
