NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Public Limited Company the Company will be held in the Mountbatten Room, the Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS on 23 July 2010 at 12 noon to transact the following business: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 8 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 9 to 12 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the period ended 31 March 2010.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the period ended 31 March 2010.
To re-elect Peter Smith as a Director.
To re-elect Gregory E Johnson as a Director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors, to act until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which audited accounts are laid before the members.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
That the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act pursuant to Section 551 of the Act, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,363,540 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2010, provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 save that the Company may, before such expiry, make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 8, the Directors be given the general power to allot equity securities as defined by Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8, as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,363,540 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2010.
The power granted by this resolution will expire on conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company prior to or on such date save that the Company may, before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this resolution has expired.
That, the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company shares provided that: i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall not exceed 14.99 per cent.
of the shares in issue on 23 July 2010, or 49,454,161 shares, whichever is lower: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the closing mid-market price of shares as derived from the daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the regulation entitled the Buy-Back and Stabilisation Regulation: and 64 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC iv unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2011, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
That: v the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions formerly in the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of Section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and vi the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
That a General Meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 15 June 2010 Please ensure that you read the notes to this Notice on pages 65 to 67.
The Company specifies that only those members registered on the Companys register of members at 6.00pm on 21 July 2010 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, to speak and, on a poll, vote thereat instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to one share.
Please contact the Companys registrar Equiniti, at Aspect House, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZN to appoint more than one proxy.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
A member can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
A proxy form must be returned to the Companys registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZN to arrive not later than 12 noon on 21 July 2010.
New Zealand shareholders must return a proxy form to Computershare, Private Bag 92119, Auckland 1142, New Zealand to arrive not later than 4.00pm on 9 July 2010 New Zealand time.
As at 4 June 2010, the Companys issued share capital was 329,914,352 shares of 25p each.
Each share carries the right to vote at an Annual General Meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 4 June 2010 is 329,914,352.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 65 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 8.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the Directors, the current Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 5 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BH, at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, The Adelphi, 1-11 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6HT and at the Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The Dress Code of the RAC Club requires that gentlemen must wear a shirt with collar and tie and ladies must wear business attire.
No jeans or trainers are permitted.
Electronic proxy appointment for CREST members for UK only.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic proxy appointment for non-CREST members for UK only.
Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Lloyds TSB Registrars website at www.
co. uk where full instructions on the procedure are given.
The personal reference number, card ID and account number printed in the voting pack will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars on-line portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 noon on 21 July 2010.
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic proxy appointment for New Zealand registered shareholders.
New Zealand registered investors who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Computershare website at www.
co. nz investor centre, click on Proxy voting, choose the Company, where full instructions on the procedure are given.
Your CSN Common Shareholder Number and personal FIN Number will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than that provided or if received after 4.00pm New Zealand time on 4 July 2010.
Please note that any electronic communication found and contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
New Zealand registered investors cannot appoint more than one proxy when registering the appointment of their proxy electronically.
A member of the Company may make a request in accordance with Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to have a statement published on the Companys website setting out an audit concern.
66 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC This allows a member or members having a right to vote at the Meeting and holding at least 5% of total voting rights of the Company: or at least 100 members have a right to vote at the Meeting and holding, on average, at least 100 of paid up share capital, to make a request so that the Company must publish on its website, a statement setting out any matter that such members propose to raise at the Meeting relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting.
Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on its website: i it may not require the members making the request to pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with the request: ii it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditors no later than the time the statement is made available on the Companys website: and ii the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the Meeting.
A member wishing to request publication of such a statement on the Companys website must send the request to the Company in hard copy form to the Company secretary.
The request must either set out the statement in full or, if supporting a statement sent by another member, clearly identify the statement which is being supported and be received by the Company at least one week before the Meeting.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must provide an answer to any question which is put by a member attending the Meeting relating to the business being considered, except if a response would not be in the interest of the Company or for the good order of the meeting or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
The Company may however elect to provide an answer to a question, within a reasonable period of days after the conclusion of the Meeting.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website, www.
Appendix Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
The Companys Objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys Memorandum.
Under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum no longer contains an objects clause and simply records the names of the subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber agreed to take in the Company.
As of 1 October 2009, the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in the Companys Memorandum are deemed to be contained in the Articles and the Company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Unless the Articles provide otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
The Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum.
Resolution 11 confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts the new Articles of Association the new Articles.
Limited Liability Article 3 Under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum of Association no longer contains a clause stating that the liability of the members is limited and this statement is automatically treated as having moved into the Articles on 1 October 2009.
As the effect of Resolution 11 will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum regarding limited liability, the new Articles contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
Authorised Share Capital and Unissued Shares Former Article 3 The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the new Articles reflect this.
Directors will still require the usual shareholders authorisation in order to allot shares, except in respect of employee share schemes.
References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares have therefore been removed from the new Articles.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 67 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 4.
Redeemable Shares Article 9 Under the 2006 Act, the Articles need not include the terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
The Directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of redeemable shares provided they are authorised to do so by the Articles.
The new Articles contain such authorisation.
Authority to Purchase own Shares, Consolidate and Sub-divide Shares, and Reduce Share Capital Article 6, 7 and 8 Under the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act, a company required specific enabling provisions in its Articles of Association to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
Under the 2006 Act a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for Articles to contain enabling provisions.
Amendments have been made to the new Articles to reflect these changes, although the explicit authorities have been retained.
Share Certificates Article 21 The new Articles contain new provisions for the issue of consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form Articles.
Suspension of Registration of Share Transfers Former Article 38 Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in any event within two months from the date that the transfer is lodged with the company.
The new Articles reflect these requirements.
The Company cannot in any event refuse to transfer a fully paid share except in very limited circumstances.
The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration of transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any one year has been removed from the new Articles as there is no ability under the 2006 Act to close the register.
Notice of General Meetings Article 48 The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the 2006 Act to require the Company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings unless the Company offers members an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
Annual general meetings must be held on 21 clear days notice.
The new Articles amend the provisions of the current Articles to be consistent with the new requirements.
Participation in Meetings at Different Places and by Electronic Means Article 51 Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
The new Articles include amendments to provide greater scope for members to participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not present in person at the principal place where the meeting is being held.
The amendments allow for members to participate not only by attendance at satellite meeting locations, but also by any other electronic means of participation.
Adjournments Article 55 Under the 2006 Act as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The new Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
Voting Rights Article 63 The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the various powers of proxies and representatives of corporate members in respect of resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Where a proxy has been duly appointed by one member, he has one vote on a show of hands unless he has been appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been appointed by more than one member to vote for the resolution and by more than one member to vote against the resolution.
Where a corporate member appoints representatives to attend meetings on its behalf, each representative duly appointed by a corporate member has one vote on a show of hands.
The new Articles 68 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC contain provisions which clarify these rights and also clarify how the provisions giving a proxy a second vote on a show of hands should apply to discretionary powers.
Voting Record Date Article 64 The new Articles allow the Company, when convening a meeting, to specify a time not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any part of a day that is not a business day, by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the Meeting.
This provision is in line with a requirement for listed companies introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
Validity of Votes Article 69 Following the implementation of the Shareholders Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them by members.
The new Articles contain a provision stating that the Company is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with instructions given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate representative will be valid even if he has not voted in accordance with his instructions.
Appointing Proxies Article 71 Under the 2006 Act, members may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
The new Articles reflect these new proxy rights.
Receipt of Appointments of Proxy Article 73 Article 73 provides that proxies for a poll to be taken after the date of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not less than 24 hours before the time of the poll.
The new Articles also permit the Directors to specify in a notice of a meeting, that in determining the time for delivery of proxies, no account should be taken of non-business days.
Quorum for Board Meetings Article 98 The New Articles contain a provision which states that a Director cannot be counted in the quorum in relation to a matter or resolution on which he is not entitled to vote, but that he may be counted in the quorum for the other matters or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the same meeting.
This amendment is for clarification.
The Seal Former Article 112 Under the 1985 Act, a company required authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the 2006 Act, such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the new Articles.
Provision for Employees on Cessation of Business Article 156 The 2006 Act provides that the powers of the directors to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by a company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the cessation or transfer of the whole or part of the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary may only be exercised by the Directors if they are so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in general meeting.
Article 156 provides that the Directors may exercise this power.
Change of Name Article 158 Under the 1985 Act, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the 2006 Act a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new Articles and in some areas to conform the language of the new Articles to that used in the model public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 69
