THE GROUP COMPANY Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association continued reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares 9.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy employee share schemes.
appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case 5.
Redeemable shares the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue been instructed by one or more members to vote for the redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and resolution and by one or more members to vote against the manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors resolution.
The New Articles remove provisions in the Current to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised Articles dealing with proxy voting on the basis that these are dealt by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The with in the Companies Act 2006 and contain a provision clarifying Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so how the provision of the Companies Act 2006 giving a proxy a the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new second vote on a show of hands should apply to discretionary shares in the usual way.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub- 10.
Voting by corporate representatives divide shares, and reduce share capital The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple representatives Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to appointed by the same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll.
The New Articles remove a consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to provision in the Current Articles dealing with voting by corporate representatives on the basis that this is dealt with in the undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company Companies Act 2006. will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things 11.
Chairmans casting vote and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer removed in the New Articles.
permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority in Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum Companies Act 2006, such authority will no longer be required.
must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the Current Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution of 13.
General documents other than share certificates.
Under the New Articles, Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language when the seal is affixed to a document it may be signed by one into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language director in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public requirement was for signature by either a director and the companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation secretary or two directors or such other person or persons as the and Skills.
Vacation of office by directors The Current Articles specify the circumstances in which a director must vacate office.
The New Articles update these provisions to treat physical illness in the same manner as mental illness.
