THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2010.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive these dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Differences between the value of shares received and the cash dividend foregone are recognised in the capital returns of the Group Income Statement.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
Rental income Rental income receivable under operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, except for contingent rental income which is recognised when it arises.
Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements are spread evenly over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise that option.
Premiums received to terminate leases are recognised in the income statement when they arise.
Service charges and expenses recoverable from tenants Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the period in which the expense can be contractually recovered.
Service charges and other such receipts are included gross of the related costs in revenue as the directors consider that the Group acts as principal in this respect.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 17.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
One third of the management fees is deemed to relate to the administration of the Trust and charged to revenue.
The remainder are allocated 50% to revenue return and 50% to capital return to reflect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
The overall result is that two thirds of management fees are charged to revenue and one third to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital return.
