THE GROUP COMPANY Glossary of Terms Discount by the number of Ordinary shares in issue.
To calculate the Net The amount by which the market price per share of an Investment Asset Value per Sigma share, divide the Net Asset Value by the Trust Company is lower than the Net Asset Value per share.
The number of Sigma shares in issue.
discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Ordinary shares Value per share.
Confer certain rights to the holder as laid down in the Articles of Dividend Yield Association.
The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Premium Gearing The amount by which the market price per share of an Investment Total debt comprising debentures, loan stock, bank loans and Trust Company exceeds the Net Asset Value per share.
The overdrafts less cash at bank and short term deposits divided by premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value Sigma shares The value of the total assets less the liabilities.
Liabilities for this Confer certain rights to the holder as laid down in the Articles of purpose include both current and long-term liabilities.
the Net Asset Value per Ordinary share, divide the Net Asset Value Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association the Companys articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
The Companys objects Resolution 12 confirms the removal of these provisions for the The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the currently set out in the Companys memorandum and articles of statement currently in the Companys memorandum of association association.
The Companys memorandum contains, among other regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions significance of a companys memorandum.
The Companies Act contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be 2006 provides that a memorandum will record only the names of removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the be duplicated in a companys constitution.
objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 3.
Change of name Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its 2009, are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to change its name by other means provided special resolution.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Further the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a companys Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause 4.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles TR Property Investment Trust 97
