TR Property Share Plan BNP Paribas Security Services offers a Share Plan providing a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate TR Property ISA You can invest directly in TR Property Investment Trust plc through the TR Property ISA.
The ISA offers the following: Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or an initial lump sum investment from 2,000, and further lump sums of 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations and reports Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Under the TR Property ISA, you are permitted to transfer your existing ISA funds into the Trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
Please remember that the value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Further Information Please consult our website www.
co. uk or write to: BNP Paribas Securities Services TR Property Investment Trust plc Share Plan ISA Block C, Western House Lynch Wood Business Park Peterborough PE2 6BP Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on 0845 358 1113.
BNP Paribas Securities Services is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
102 TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Investment Trust plc Directors Review Accounts 1 Overview 62 Independent Auditors Report 2 Statement of Investment Objective and Policy 63 Group Income Statement 4 Financial Highlights and Performance 64 Group and Company Statement of Changes in Equity 5 Historical Performance 65 Group and Company Balance Sheets 6 Chairmans Statement 66 Group and Company Cash Flow Statements 10 Managers Report Market Background and Outlook 67 Notes to the Financial Statements 15 Ordinary Shares Financial Highlights and Performance Shareholder Information 16 Ordinary Shares Managers Report 89 Notice of Annual General Meeting 21 Ordinary Shares Portfolio Details 93 Notice of Separate Class Meeting of Ordinary Shareholders 27 Ordinary Shares Income Statement 94 Notice of Separate Class Meeting of Sigma Shareholders 28 Ordinary Shares Balance Sheet 95 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting 29 Sigma Shares Financial Highlights and Performance 97 Glossary of Terms 30 Sigma Shares Managers Report 97 Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys 36 Sigma Shares Portfolio Details Articles of Association 42 Sigma Shares Income Statement 99 Directors and Other Information 43 Sigma Shares Balance Sheet 100 General Shareholder Information 44 Directors and Managers 101 Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc 46 Directors Remuneration Report 102 TR Property Share Plan and TR Property ISA Directors Report 48 Report of the Directors 48 Business Review 52 Annual General Meeting 53 Other Statutory Information 56 Corporate Governance 61 Statement of directors responsibilities Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of TR Property Investment Trust plc the Company or the Trust and no one else.
The Company, its Directors or agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
The forwardlooking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010 TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010 TR Property Investment Trust plc is managed by This document is printed on Revive Silk of which 75% of the furnish is made from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin fibres.
This paper is bleached using a combination of Totally Chlorine Free TCF and Elemental Chlorine Free ECF.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
