THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Investment property Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Transaction costs include transfer taxes, professional fees for legal services and initial leasing commissions to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
The carrying amount also includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is stated at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the Group Income Statement in the year in which they arise.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Gains or losses on the disposal of investment property are determined as the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset in the previous full period financial statements.
h Movements in fair value Changes in the fair value of all investments held at fair value are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the Group Income Statement.
i Non-current liabilities All loans and debentures are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The costs of arranging any interestbearing loans are capitalised and amortised over the life of the loan.
j Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
l Changes in accounting policy The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as described below.
The following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations are mandatory as of 1 January 2009 unless otherwise stated.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2008 IAS 23 Definition of borrowing costs Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments The amended standard requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements related to items recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, by class, for all financial instruments recognised at fair value.
In addition, a reconciliation between the beginning and ending balance for level 3 fair value measurements is now required, as well as significant transfers between levels in the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value measurement disclosures are presented in Note 10.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions under this amendment and has therefore not provided comparative information for 31 March 2009.
The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management.
The liquidity risk disclosures are not significantly impacted by the amendments and are presented in Note 11.4.
TR Property Investment Trust 69 THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting IAS 14.
The Group concluded that its operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the business segments previously indentified under IAS 14.
IFRS 8 disclosures are shown in note 10, including the related revised comparative information.
IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements The revised Standard has required the reconciliation of movements in equity, previously disclosed in the notes, to be presented as a primary statement entitled Consolidated Statement of Changes on Equity.
In addition, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense has been replaced with the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The revised standard requires this statement to present all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present one statement, being the Group Income Statement.
In addition the revised Standard requires a third balance sheet to be presented if accounting changes are applied retrospectively or reclassifications are made and the opening balance sheet is affected.
This requirement does not apply to the Group in the current financial year.
Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2008 In May 2008 the Accounting Standards Board issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each amendment.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs The definition of borrowing costs is revised to consolidate the two types of items that are considered components of borrowing costs into one the interest expense calculated using the effective interest rate method calculated in accordance with IAS 39.
The Group has amended its accounting policy accordingly which did not result in any change in its financial position.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the following judgements have been made, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial property leases as lessor on its investment property portfolio.
The classification of such leases as operating or finance lease requires the Group to determine, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, whether it retains the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these assets and accordingly whether the lease requires an asset and liability to be recognised in the balance sheet.
Estimates and assumptions The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Taxation Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with an assessment of the effect of future tax planning strategies.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets arising as a result of excess management expenses and excess non-trade debits.
These expenses will only be utilised if the Group has profits chargeable to corporation tax in future accounting periods.
It is considered too uncertain that the Group will generate such profits and, on this basis, the deferred tax asset in respect of these expenses has not been recognised.
