THE GROUP COMPANY General Shareholder Information Release of Results You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services The half year results are announced in late November.
The full year PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing results are announced in early June.
impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator, by dialling Annual General Meeting 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during The AGM is held in London in July.
normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Dividend Payment Dates Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator Dividends are usually paid on the Ordinary and Sigma shares as provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you follows: should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Interim : early January Final : August For investors through the TR Property Share Plan or ISA, a textphone telephone service is available on 01733 285714.
This Dividend Payments service is available during normal business hours.
Dividends can be paid to Ordinary and Sigma shareholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate Nominee Share Code forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company shareholders can write to the Registrar the address is given on will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be page 99 of this report to give their instructions: these must provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors include the bank account number, the bank account title and the may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited sort code of the bank to which payments are to be made.
Share Price Listings The market prices of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares Investors in the TR Property Share Plan and ISA receive all are published daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the shareholder communications.
A voting instruction form is provided information is published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
Times also shows figures for the estimated Net Asset Values and the discounts applicable.
CGT Base Cost Taxation of capital gains for shareholders who converted Share Price Information Ordinary shares to Sigma shares Ordinary Shares Sigma Shares Upon a disposal of all or part of a shareholders holding of ISIN GB0009064097 GB00B1YW2J11 Ordinary shares or as the case may be Sigma shares, the SEDOL 0906409 B1YW2J1 shareholders original capital gains tax base cost in his existing Bloomberg TRY.
LN holding of Ordinary shares will have to be apportioned between Reuters TRY.
L that shareholder's Ordinary shares and Sigma shares.
Datastream TRY TRYS Internet We have now agreed with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to Details of the market price and Net Asset Value of the Ordinary base this apportionment of the original capital gains tax base cost and Sigma shares can be found at www.
co. uk on the on the proportion of existing Ordinary shares that were converted Companys website.
by a shareholder into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007.
Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check Therefore, if an Ordinary shareholder converted 20% of their their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007, the PLC, via www.
Please note that to gain access capital gains tax base cost of the new Sigma shares acquired to your details on the Computershare site you will need the holder would be equal to 20% of the original capital gains tax base cost reference number stated on the top left hand corner of your share of the Ordinary shares that they held pre-conversion.
of their remaining holding of Ordinary shares would then be 80% Disability Act of the original capital gains tax base cost of their Ordinary shares Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents issued by held pre-conversion.
the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including If in doubt as to the consequences of this agreement with HMRC, Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
shareholders should consult with their own professional advisors.
