THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Expenses are allocated between the share classes as follows: management fees are charged separately to each share class: administration costs incurred specifically by a single share class are charged to that class: other corporate expenses are allocated to the share class in proportion to the share classes relative net asset values at the end of the previous accounting period.
d Finance costs The finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
One half of the finance costs is charged to capital return.
Finance costs are allocated to the share class utilising the capital instrument.
e Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue for the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares using the Groups effective rate of tax for the year.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method on all timing differences, calculated at the rate at which it is anticipated the timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits in the future against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
The brought forward tax losses held within TR Property Investment Trust plc prior to the introduction of the new Sigma share class have been split between the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares based on the proportion of ordinary shares converted to Sigma shares on 24 July 2007 18.9943%.
Tax losses will in the future only be transferred from one share class to another to the extent that there are insufficient current year losses available to the share class claiming the losses to cover the taxable income arising.
The Company is an investment trust under s. 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and, as such, is not liable for tax on capital gains.
Capital gains arising in subsidiary companies are subject to capital gains tax.
f Properties Investment properties are revalued six-monthly by independent valuers.
The purchase and sale of properties is recognised to be effected on the date unconditional contracts are exchanged.
g Investments When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date.
All the Groups investments are defined under IFRS as investments designated as fair value through profit or loss but are also described in these financial statements as investments held at fair value.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which, for quoted investments, is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments or investments for which there is only an inactive market are held at fair value which is based on valuations made by the directors in accordance with IPEVCA guidelines and using current market prices, trading conditions and the general economic climate.
In its financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at fair value, being their respective net asset values.
