THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1 and 2: Accounts and Directors Remuneration Resolution 10: Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights Report This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation of the shares or sell any shares which the Company elects to hold in audited accounts and the approval of the directors remuneration treasury for cash without first offering them to existing report.
The vote to approve the remuneration report is advisory shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
only and will not require the Company to alter any arrangements This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection detailed in the report should the resolution not be passed.
with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or as the board Resolution 3: Re-election of Director otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate Resolution 3 deals with the re-election of Caroline Burton as nominal amount of 3,989,825 representing a maximum of director.
Under the Articles of Association, Caroline Burton is 15,959,300 Ordinary shares or a maximum of 31,918,600 Sigma required to retire by rotation at the AGM: she has confirmed she shares.
This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately will offer herself for re-election.
5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 10 June Resolution 4: Re-election of Director 2010, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In Resolution 4 deals with the re-election of Peter Wolton as director.
respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their Under the Articles of Association, Peter Wolton is required to retire intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups by rotation at the AGM: he has confirmed he will offer himself for Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities re-election.
within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation Resolution 5: Re-election of Director with shareholders.
The Directors would intend not to exercise more Resolution 5 is for the re-election of Peter Salsbury, who has than two-thirds 2,659,883.33 of the aggregate nominal amount served on the Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with in respect of Ordinary shares and not to exercise more than onethe Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which requires third 1,329,941.67 of the aggregate nominal amount in respect directors who have served for more than nine years to seek annual of Sigma shares.
re-election, Peter Salsbury will retire at the forthcoming AGM and he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business on 27 October 2011 and the conclusion of the annual general Resolution 6: Re-election of Director meeting of the Company held in 2011.
Resolution 6 is for the re-election of Richard Stone, who has served on the Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with Resolution 11: Authority to make Market Purchases of the the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which requires Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares directors who have served for more than nine years to seek annual At the AGM held on 28 July 2009, a special resolution was re-election, Richard Stone will retire at the forthcoming AGM and proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until the he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010, to make market purchases of the Companys own issued Ordinary and Resolutions 7 and 8: Auditors Sigma shares up to a maximum of 14.99% of the issued share These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & Young capital.
This authority will expire at this years AGM.
LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine their Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed remuneration.
authority to purchase Ordinary and Sigma shares in the market.
Resolution 9: Allotment of share capital Your Board believes that to make such purchases in the market at Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be granted to appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of enhancing allot shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum shareholder value.
The Company would, within guidelines set from nominal amount of 26,332,845 representing approximately time to time by the Board, make either a single purchase or a 33% of the Companys issued share capital as at 10 June 2010, series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the being the latest practical date prior to publication.
As at the date of aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
this notice the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
The Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority and Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Value for the woud only expect to use the authority if shares could be issued at, remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases or at a premium to, the NAV per share of the relevant share class.
would only be made at prices below Net Asset Value.
Your Board If the Directors were to exercise this authority, they would intend to considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the exercise not more than two-thirds 17,555,230 of the maximum Company to be able to make such purchases as and when it nominal amount in respect of Ordinary shares and not more than considers the timing to be favourable and therefore does not one-third 8,777,615 of the maximum nominal amount in propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
TR Property Investment Trust 95 THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable companies in the authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they Ordinary and Sigma shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, equivalent to 38,483,078 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any value 9,620,770 and 18,725,808 Sigma shares of 12.5p each of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of nominal value 2,340,726 at 10 June 2010, the date of the Notice the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased of the AGM.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to will continue to be cancelled.
be held in 2011 or at any other general meeting.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum Resolution 12: Adoption of new articles of association price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such It is proposed in Resolution 12 to adopt the New Articles, primarily share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for Regulations and the implementation of the last parts of the an Ordinary share if an Ordinary share is being Companies Act 2006. purchased or of a Sigma share if a Sigma share is being purchased as taken from the London Stock Exchange The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are Daily Official List for the five business days immediately summarised in the explanatory notes on pages 97 and 98 of this preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy document.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or shares concerned: and clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or the ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and Shareholders Rights Regulations, or conform the language of the the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share New Articles with that used in the model articles for public or Sigma share in the Company on the trading venue companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation where the purchase is carried out.
and Skills have not been noted in the explanatory notes.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share and for inspection at the Companys registered office at 51 Berkeley 12.5p per Sigma share being the nominal values.
The Listing Rules Square, London W1J 5BB and at The Royal Automobile Club for at also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
