THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Separate Class Meeting of Sigma Shareholders Notice is hereby given that a separate class meeting of the holders of Sigma shares of TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12.10 pm or so soon thereafter as the separate class meeting of holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company shall have concluded on Tuesday 27 July 2008 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an extraordinary resolution: Resolution 1 That the holders of Sigma shares in the Company hereby sanction and consent to the passing and carrying into effect of Resolution 12 contained in the notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 27 July 2010.
Registered Office: Registered in England No: 84492 51 Berkeley Square London W1J 5BB By Order of the Board Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Secretary 10 June 2010 Notes to the Notice of Separate Class Meeting of Sigma Shareholders 1 Only holders of Sigma shares in the Company are entitled 2 In order to be able to attend and vote at the meeting or any adjourned meeting, and also for the purpose of to attend and vote on the resolution to be proposed at the above meeting.
calculating how many votes a person may cast a person must have his her name entered on the register of Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or members of the Company by 6.00 pm on 25 July 2010 any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members than one proxy in relation to the Separate Class Meeting after this time shall be disregarded in determining the provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Notes 4 and 5 of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Company.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be returned by post, by courier or 27 July 2010 are incorporated into this notice by reference.
by hand to the Company's Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY no later than 48 hours before the time of the Separate Class Meeting.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the Separate Class Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
