THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Investment property Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Transaction costs include transfer taxes, professional fees for legal services and initial leasing commissions to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
The carrying amount also includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is stated at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the Group Income Statement in the year in which they arise.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Gains or losses on the disposal of investment property are determined as the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset in the previous full period financial statements.
h Movements in fair value Changes in the fair value of all investments held at fair value are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the Group Income Statement.
i Non-current liabilities All loans and debentures are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The costs of arranging any interestbearing loans are capitalised and amortised over the life of the loan.
j Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
l Changes in accounting policy The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as described below.
The following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations are mandatory as of 1 January 2009 unless otherwise stated.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2008 IAS 23 Definition of borrowing costs Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments The amended standard requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements related to items recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, by class, for all financial instruments recognised at fair value.
In addition, a reconciliation between the beginning and ending balance for level 3 fair value measurements is now required, as well as significant transfers between levels in the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value measurement disclosures are presented in Note 10.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions under this amendment and has therefore not provided comparative information for 31 March 2009.
The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management.
The liquidity risk disclosures are not significantly impacted by the amendments and are presented in Note 11.4.
