THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued overall result is that two-thirds of the management fee is Resolutions 10 to 12 will be proposed as special charged to revenue and one-third to capital.
All resolutions which requires a majority of at least 75% of performance fees are charged to capital.
those present and voting to be passed.
Resolution 10 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption Allocation of Costs Between Share Classes rights Each share class has its own management fee structure and is invoiced directly for management fees which are This resolution will empower the Directors to allot shares allocated between capital and revenue accounts on the or sell any shares which the Company elects to hold in basis of accounting described above.
treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Administration costs incurred specifically by a single share class are charged to that share class.
Resolution 11 Authority to Purchase Own Shares The remaining corporate expenses are allocated to the The Companys Articles permit the Company to purchase share class in the proportion to their relative Net Asset its own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules Values at the end of the previous accounting period.
of the Financial Services Authority a company is permitted to purchase up to 14.99% of its issued equity share capital Environmental Policy through market purchases pursuant to a general authority The Company considers that good corporate governance granted by shareholders in general meeting.
extends to policies on the environment and has therefore adopted an environmental policy in respect of its The current authority which permits the Company to investments in both physical property and listed property purchase up to 14.99% of its issued Ordinary and Sigma companies.
Within the context of the overall aim of the shares expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Company to maximise shareholders returns, we will seek The Board believes that the Company should continue to to limit our own and our investee companies impact on have authority to make market purchases of its own the environment.
We will comply with all relevant Ordinary and Sigma shares for cancellation.
The Board is legislation relating to our operations and activities.
therefore seeking to renew its power to make market purchases of Ordinary and Sigma shares.
Accordingly, a We review the environmental statements and behaviour of special resolution to authorise the Company to make all the companies in which we invest and take these into market purchases of up to 14.99% of the Companys account in decision-making.
We recognise that good issued Ordinary and Sigma share capital at the date of the environmental management can play a part in overall risk AGM is proposed, with the shares purchased to be management and also have a financial impact in terms of cancelled.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the savings through energy and water efficiency.
Where date of this Report, 14.99% of the Companys issued appropriate, our managers will engage with investee Ordinary share capital is equivalent to 38,483,078 Ordinary companies to raise concerns about environmental matters.
shares and 14.99% of the Companys issued Sigma share So far as direct property investments in the Ordinary share capital is equivalent to 18,725,808 Sigma shares.
These class portfolio are concerned, the Company conducts figures have been calculated on the basis that there is no environmental audits prior to purchase to identify possible change in the issued share capital between the date of this contamination or materials considered environmentally Report and the AGM to be held on 27 July 2010. harmful.
We will take remedial action or enforce tenant Any purchase of shares would be made at a discount to obligations to do so wherever appropriate.
We and our the prevailing Net Asset Value, thus enhancing the Net advisers assess the environmental impact of our properties Asset Value of the remaining shares.
The terms of the on an ongoing basis and will take all necessary action to resolution will restrict the price payable to the effect that it comply with our environmental responsibilities.
could not be less than 25p per share for Ordinary shares Annual General Meeting the AGM and 12.5p per share for Sigma shares being the nominal The AGM will be held on Tuesday, 27 July 2010 at values and not more than 5% above the average of the 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 89 to closing mid-market quotations for the five business days 92, and an explanation of the business to be conducted immediately preceding the date on which the Company is given on pages 95 and 96. agrees to buy the shares concerned.
