Witan Investment Trust plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Report and the financial statements in accordance with Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the applicable law and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the integrity of the corporate and financial information directors are required to prepare the Group financial included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the statements in accordance with International Financial United Kingdom governing the preparation and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European dissemination of financial statements may differ from Union and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and have legislation in other jurisdictions.
also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under Responsibility statement company law the directors must not approve the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted that period.
In preparing these financial statements, by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the directors: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and properly select and apply accounting policies: the management report, which is incorporated into the present information, including accounting policies, in a Directors' Report, includes a fair review of the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable development and performance of the business and the and understandable information: position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, provide additional disclosures when compliance with together with a description of the principal risks and the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to uncertainties that they face.
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance: and By order of the Board H M Henderson A L C Bell make an assessment of the Company's ability to Chairman Chief Executive Officer continue as a going concern.
15 March 2011 15 March 2011 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Note to those who access this document by electronic means The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 has been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc and circulated to the Companys shareholders in hard copy format.
It is also made available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
However, the Board cannot accept responsibility for guaranteeing the integrity of the document in electronic format.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Office in London.
