Witan Investment Trust plc Marketing Review 2010 For Witan, 2010 marked an 2011 Witans marketing important year in the evolution of As highlighted in the Chairmans programme aims to its multi-manager approach.
The statement, Rory McGrath will be stimulate interest in appointment of Andrew Bell as stepping down from the Board at the the Trust's shares Chief Executive Officer in February Annual General Meeting in May.
For and to create and the subsequent changes made to the past 15 years Rory has brought his liquidity, thereby the portfolio meant that Witan was marketing skills to bear on the Board enabling in the spotlight for most of the year.
and has been instrumental in helping James Frost, shareholders to buy Interest in the Trust and demand for develop the success of the Witan Marketing Director and sell shares at a its shares have been boosted in the Wisdom and Jump Savings brands.
price reflecting the wake of the announced changes.
net asset growth performance of the His regular appearances on the BBCs Looking ahead, 2012 will bring the Trust.
All of Witans marketing Today programme, an economicssavings industry a step closer to the activities are measured, and the focused blog on the Witan website, Retail Distribution Review RDR.
results reviewed by the Board, to and video interviews have also The main aim of the RDR is to ensure all activity is effective, adheres helped raise the profile of the Trust introduce transparency and reduce to our key objectives, and above all and encourage analysts and conflicts of interest in the way in provides value for money to investors to look anew at Witans which financial advice is paid for.
Although this new legislation is not due to be brought in until the end Equity markets continued to rebuild in Witan also made some changes to of 2012, it is already having effects 2010 and towards the end of the year the administration of its savings in the intermediary market place.
some markets returned to pre-global schemes during 2010.
Witan operates In 2011, one of the key barriers financial crisis levels.
Despite on an outsourced business model.
constraining financial advisers from intermittent jitters about European This means that certain aspects sovereign debt, sentiment has of the service that we remained buoyant and demand for provide are outsourced to equities has been steady.
A change of third party companies.
In If you would be wealthy, government in early May brought the case of our savings think of saving as well as getting.
Benjamin Franklin 1706 - 1790 about a change to the taxation of schemes the investments, through an increase in administration had been Capital Gains Tax to 28% for higher outsourced to Equiniti rate tax payers, as well as a cap on Limited: however, in 2010 Thinking of where to invest this years ISA in order to help annual pension contributions which we decided to appoint secure your long-term wealth?
will come into force in April 2011. International Financial These changes underline the Data Services Limited importance of considering the tax IFDS as the schemes The benefits of ISAs Thinking of where to invest your ISA?
This change The Witan Wisdom ISA is a tax efficient savings plan that We are the only global equity multi-managed investment trust, allows you to squirrel away up to 10,200 in the 2010 11 which means that in addition to striving to deliver added value, Witan Wisdom scheme, Witans stocks was implemented in tax year, and a further 10,680 in the 2011 12 tax year.
we seek to smooth out the volatility normally associated with a The tax benefits are twofold: single manager.
So, perhaps Witan is the answer.
and shares ISA enjoyed a good year December 2010 and, If you choose to invest a lump sum in a Witan Wisdom ISA 1.
Any capital gains made within an ISA are protected from before 30th April, we will waive our standard 1% dealing fee.
with many investors taking advantage following this migration Please remember that past performance is not a guide 2.
Higher rate tax payers do not have to pay additional tax to future performance.
The value of an investment and dividend income within an ISA is paid net of basic tax.
of the new ISA limit of 10,200, which project, we believe that the income from it can fall as well as rise, as a result of The above information is based on Witan Investment Services currency and market fluctuations, and you may not get Limiteds understanding of Revenue law and practice as at further increases to 10,680 from the clients can look forward to back the amount originally invested.
Please note that tax assumptions may change if the law changes, and the value of tax relief Call us on 0800 082 81 80 or visit us at www.
Appetite for stocks and an improved and more if any will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Investors should consult their own tax advisers in order to shares ISAs as a whole continues to comprehensive service.
understand any applicable tax consequences.
remain strong as confidence in IFDS will be launching an economic recovery has started to enhanced on-line service rebuild and the continued low interest for the Witan Wisdom Visit www.
com Call 0800 082 81 80 rates on offer through bank deposits and Jump Savings schemes Witan Investment Trust is an equity investment.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited including cash ISAs has prompted a over the coming weeks, is registered in England no.
5272533 of 14 Queen Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Calls may be recorded for our mutual protection and search for higher returns albeit that details of which will be to improve customer service.
those returns come with higher risks.
70 Annual Report 2010 being able to recommend investment The Witan Wisdom ISA is a stocks Please note that tax assumptions may trusts is being lifted, as the larger and shares ISA that enables change if the law changes, and the adviser product wrap providers the investors to buy Witan shares value of tax relief if any will depend key distribution channel for unit within a tax efficient wrapper.
trusts and OEICS, start allowing Investors have an annual ISA Investors should consult their own investment trusts to be traded allowance of up to 10,200 for the tax advisers in order to understand through on-line platforms.
We view 2010 11 tax year, rising to 10,680 any applicable tax consequences.
this as a key step in providing for the 2011 12 tax year.
The investors with access to a fuller range minimum lump sum investment Witan Investment Trust plc is an of investments, enabling investment with Witan Wisdom is 2,000, with equity investment.
Issued and trusts like Witan to be considered by the regular savings minimum being approved by Witan Investment a wider range of investors as cost 100 per month.
You can also Services Limited.
Witan Investment effective direct competitors to opentransfer existing ISAs to Witan Services Limited of 14 Queen Annes ended funds.
Wisdom while retaining their tax Gate, London SW1H 9AA is efficient wrapper during and after registered in England number We will continue with initiatives, transfer.
Witan Investment Services begun in 2010, concerning provides investment products and investment management, building The Witan Wisdom Share Plan is services and is authorised and Witans profile in the media, making our straightforward, low-cost regulated by the Financial Services use of our website to provide regular savings scheme.
We may record telephone and interesting content on lump sum investment is 500, and calls for our mutual protection and to investment related matters and the minimum regular contribution improve customer service.
looking to increase the strength and is 50 per month or quarter.
There breadth of interest in Witans shares.
Accounts can also Witan... be held jointly, or designated to a One particular area of focus for us in child.
Although product details are yet to Jump Savings for children be confirmed by the government, Jump gives parents, grandparents and this savings wrapper for children other adults the chance to invest in could provide parents and Witan on behalf of a child.
This grandparents with a simple tax flexible savings plan has a minimum efficient vehicle to help children lump sum investment set at 100 wisdom Being a member of the Royal Family may get you free entry to Westminster Abbey, accumulate assets that will help and regular contributions can be but the potential attractions of Witan are open to everyone.
Our commitment to our shareholders is to work hard in the dedicated pursuit of long-term capital growth and a rising income.
Phone us today and request a brochure it could be them in adult life for example, made from as little as 25 per month the start of a beautiful relationship.
assisting with increased higher or quarter.
Watch this space Witan Investment Trust is an equity investment.
Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise, as a result of currency and market fluctuations, and you Every contrivance of man, may not get back the amount originally invested.
Witan Investment Brochures and applications for Services Limited is registered in England no.
Witan Investment Services every tool, every instrument, evolved from a very Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Calls may be recorded for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
How to Invest all of our products are available Robert Collier 1885-1950 There are a variety of ways to invest by calling 0800 082 81 80 or in Witan Investment Trust plc.
If Naturally, Witans shares can be you would prefer to write to Quite simply, Witan is evolving and becoming traded through any UK stockbroker: request further information, Evolution has always been the key more dynamic.
Our fully active portfolio now offers to Witans success.
Which is why we have increased access to fast-growing economies but we have retained the core elements upon which refocused and improved our portfolio weve built our results to date.
And that means however, Witan is also available for the address details can be to ensure that were fully actively a competitively low TER and the dedicated pursuit of long-term capital growth and a rising income.
investment through the two savings found on page 72.
In fact, here at Witan our commitment is to work Why Witan Wisdom?
hard in pursuit of consistently good results for our shareholders, making full use of the flexibility offered s The only global multi-managed investment trust.
All of which should schemes managed by Witan add up to the best kind of evolution for your clients.
s Diversified by manager, geography and sector.
s Smoothes out fluctuations arising from single managers styles.
The value of an s Progressive dividend policy.
36 years of consecutive investment and the income from it can fall as Investment Services Witan Investors are reminded that dividend growth.
well as rise, as a result of currency and market s Free Dealing on ISA investments made before 30th April 2011. fluctuations, and investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
the value of investments and the income from them may go Witan Wisdom down as well as up and Visit www.
com Call 0800 082 81 80 Witan Investment Trust is an equity investment.
This marketing communication is issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited Witan Wisdom offers two different investors may not get back the and is for use by Financial Advisers only.
Witan Investment Services Limited is registered in England no.
savings wrappers: amount originally invested.
