Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Gas and Liquids Reserves unaudited Shareholder Information 151 The Groups estimates of reserves of gas and liquids are reviewed as part of the half-year and full-year reporting process and updated accordingly.
A number of factors affect the volumes of gas and liquids reserves, including the available reservoir data, commodity prices and future costs.
Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change as additional information becomes available.
The Group discloses proven and probable gas and liquids reserves, representing the central estimate of future hydrocarbon recovery.
Reserves for Centrica-operated fields are estimated by in-house technical teams composed of geoscientists and reservoir engineers.
Reserves for non-operated fields are estimated by the operator, but are subject to internal review and challenge.
As part of the internal control process related to reserves estimation, an assessment of the reserves, including the application of the reserves definitions is undertaken by an independent technical auditor.
An annual reserves assessment has been carried out by DeGoyler and MacNaughton for the Groups global reserves.
Reserves are estimated in accordance with a formal policy and procedure standard.
The Group has estimated proven and probable gas and liquids reserves in Europe, North America and Trinidad and Tobago.
The principal fields in Europe and Trinidad and Tobago are South Morecambe, Chiswick, Cygnus, NCMA Poinsettia, Statfjord, Ensign and York fields associated with Upstream UK, and the Rough field associated with Storage UK.
The European and Trinidad and Tobago reserves estimates are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and World Petroleum Council Petroleum Resources Management System using accepted principles.
The principal fields in North America are Foothills, Medicine Hat, Entice and Central Alberta located in the province of Alberta, Canada.
The North American reserves estimates have been evaluated in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook COGEH reserves definitions and are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the World Petroleum Council.
North Trinidad Estimated net proven and probable reserves of gas billion cubic feet Europe America and Tobago iv Total 1 January 2010 2,018 377 2,395 i Revisions of previous estimates 9 20 11 ii Purchases of reserves in place 72 221 169 462 iii Extensions, discoveries and other additions 181 181 v Production 254 40 8 302 31 December 2010 2,026 538 161 2,725 North Trinidad Estimated net proven and probable reserves of liquids million barrels Europe America and Tobago iv Total 1 January 2010 58 5 5 68 i Revisions of previous estimates 1 1 ii Purchases of reserves in place 16 1 17 Extensions, discoveries and other additions 1 1 v Production 12 12 31 December 2010 64 6 5 75 i Includes minor reserves revisions to a number of fields in Europe and North America.
ii Reflects the acquisition of additional equity in the Statfjord field in Europe, Foothills properties in North America and Suncor Trinidad properties.
iii Recognition of reserves associated with the Cygnus, Chiswick and Rhyl fields.
iv The Trinidad and Tobago reserves are subject to a production sharing contract and accordingly have been stated on an entitlement basis including tax barrels.
v Represents total gas and oil produced from the Groups reserves.
Liquids reserves include oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 149 BOL10723 centrica.
