Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Shareholder Information 151 IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial 1.
As the Group has adopted IFRS 3 revised it is Centrica plc is a Company domiciled and incorporated in the UK.
required to adopt IAS 27 revised at the same time, which applies The address of the registered office is given on page 49.
The nature prospectively for transactions occurring after 1 January 2010.
The of the Groups operations and principal activities are set out in note 6 revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with nonand in the Directors Report Business Review on pages 4 to 36. controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control, and such transactions no longer result in goodwill or The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are presented gains and losses arising.
The revised standard also specifies the in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in accounting when control is lost.
In such instances any remaining currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the foreign is recognised in profit or loss.
During the year the Group disposed currencies accounting policy set out in note 2. of a 50% interest in Lincs Windfarm Limited, formerly known as 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Centrica Lincs Limited, as set out in note 38, such that the Group no longer has a controlling interest.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These policies The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless were also effective for the current period, but the adoption of these otherwise stated.
amendments to existing standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: Basis of preparation The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS 39 amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and as adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with Measurement Eligible Hedged Items: Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based Payment Group CashThe consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the settled Share-based Payment Transactions: and historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets, financial instruments designated Improvements to IFRSs 2009. as at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition, and the b Standards, amendments and interpretations that are assets and liabilities of the Group pension schemes that have been not yet effective and that have not been early adopted by measured at fair value.
The carrying values of recognised assets and the Group liabilities that are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair following standards, amendments to existing standards and values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The principal interpretations, which have not been applied in these consolidated accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective: The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS as IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, effective for annual periods adopted by the EU requires the use of certain critical accounting beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to EU estimates.
It requires management to exercise its judgement in the endorsement.
The standard is part of a wider project to replace processes of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
involving a higher degree of judgement, complexity or areas where The impact of adopting this standard is under assessment.
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Financial Statements are described in note 3.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards and a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective interpretations in future periods, which were also in issue at the date in 2010 of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Financial impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: Statements, the following standards and amendments to existing standards were effective for the current year: IAS 32 Amendment, Classification of Rights Issues, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 February 2010: IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations.
The revised standard applies to business combinations completing on or after IFRIC 14 Amendment, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding 1 January 2010 with no requirement to restate previous business Requirement, effective for annual periods beginning on or after combinations.
The revised standard continues to apply the 1 January 2011: acquisition method to business combinations with some IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after a business are recorded at fair value at acquisition date, with 1 July 2010: contingent consideration payments classified as a liability and subsequently re-measured through the Group Income Statement.
IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures, effective for annual All acquisition related costs are expensed.
There is a choice on an periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011:  basis to measure the non-controlling Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, interest in the acquiree at either fair value or at the non-controlling effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011, interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The subject to EU endorsement: Groups business combinations executed during the year are set out in note 37.
There has been no material impact to the Groups Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes, effective for annual periods Financial Statements on adopting IFRS 3 revised.
beginning on or after 1 January 2012, subject to EU endorsement: and Improvements to IFRSs 2010, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 71 11 3 11 14:11:59 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued for the purpose of making profits in their own right.
Summary of significant accounting policies proprietary trades are included in the results before certain continued re-measurements.
c Income Statement presentation In addition, certain re-measurements includes the effects of The Groups Income Statement and segmental note separately unwinding the acquisition-date fair values attributable to forward identify the effects of re-measurement of certain financial energy procurement and energy sales contracts arising on the instruments, and items which are exceptional, in order to provide acquisition of Strategic Investments, as described below in readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups section d. The Group has shown the effect of unwinding the underlying performance, as described below.
acquisition-date fair values attributable to forward energy i Certain re-measurements procurement and energy sales contracts for these investments As part of its energy procurement activities, the Group enters into separately as a certain re-measurement, as the intention is to use a range of commodity contracts designed to achieve security of these energy supplies in the normal course of business, and energy supply.
These contracts comprise both purchases and sales management believes the ultimate net charge reflected before the and cover a wide range of volumes, prices and timescales.
The unwind of acquisition-date fair values will be consistent with the majority of the underlying supply comes from high-volume, longprice of energy agreed within these contracts.
Such presentation term contracts which are complemented by short-term is consistent with the internal performance measures used by arrangements.
These short-term contracts are entered into for the the Group.
purpose of balancing energy supplies and customer demand and to ii Exceptional items optimise the price paid by the Group.
Short-term demand can vary As permitted by IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial significantly as a result of factors such as weather, power generation Statements, certain items are presented separately.
The items that profiles and short-term movements in market prices.
the Group separately presents as exceptional are items which are of Many of the energy procurement contracts are held for the purpose a non-recurring nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, need of receipt or delivery of commodities in accordance with the Groups to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence purchase, sale or usage requirements and are therefore out of in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups scope of IAS 39.
However, a number of contracts are considered to underlying business performance.
Items which may be considered be derivative financial instruments and are required to be fair valued exceptional in nature include disposals of businesses, business under IAS 39, primarily because their terms include the ability to restructurings, renegotiation of significant contracts and trade elements of the contracted volumes on a net-settled basis.
The Group has shown the fair value adjustments arising on these d Use of adjusted profit measures contracts separately in the certain re-measurements column.
This is The Directors believe that reporting adjusted profit and adjusted because the intention of management is, subject to short-term earnings per share measures provides additional useful information demand balancing, to use these energy supplies to meet customer on business performance and underlying trends.
Accordingly, management believes the ultimate net charge are used for internal performance purposes.
The adjusted to cost of sales will be consistent with the price of energy agreed in measures in this report are not defined terms under IFRS and these contracts and that the fair value adjustments will reverse as may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by the energy is supplied over the life of the contract.
This makes the other companies.
fair value re-measurements very different in nature from costs arising The measure of operating profit used by management to evaluate from the physical delivery of energy in the year.
segment performance is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted At the balance sheet date the fair value represents the difference operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and between the prices agreed in the respective contracts and the certain re-measurements and before depreciation resulting from fair actual or anticipated market price of acquiring the same amount of value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on the acquisition of energy on the open market.
The movement in the fair value taken to Strategic Investments, as described below.
Additionally, adjusted certain re-measurements in the Income Statement represents the operating profit includes the Groups share of the results from joint unwinding of the contracted volume delivered or consumed during ventures and associates before interest and taxation.
Note 6 the year, combined with the change in fair value of future contracted contains an analysis of adjusted operating profit by segment and energy as a result of movements in forward energy prices during a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to operating profit after the year.
exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
These adjustments represent the significant majority of the items Adjusted earnings is earnings before exceptional items net of included in certain re-measurements.
taxation, certain re-measurements net of taxation and depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on the In addition to these, however, the Group has identified a number acquisition of Strategic Investments net of taxation.
A reconciliation of comparable contractual arrangements where the difference of earnings to adjusted earnings is provided in note 14. between the price which the Group expects to pay or receive under a contract and the market price is required to be fair valued by IAS Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and 39.
These additional items relate to cross-border transportation or equipment on acquiring Strategic Investments transmission capacity, storage capacity and contracts relating to the IFRS requires that a fair value exercise is undertaken allocating sale of energy by-products, on which economic value has been the cost of acquiring controlling interests and interests in associates created which is not wholly recognised under the requirements of to the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and IAS 39.
For these arrangements the related fair value adjustments contingent liabilities.
Any difference between the cost of acquiring are also included under certain re-measurements.
the interest and the fair value of the acquired net assets, which includes identified contingent liabilities, is recognised as These arrangements are managed separately from proprietary acquired goodwill.
The fair value exercise is performed at the date energy trading activities where trades are entered into speculatively of acquisition.
indd 72 11 3 11 14:11:59 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 Basis of consolidation 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial continued Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company The Directors have determined that for Strategic Investments it is its subsidiaries up to 31 December each year, and incorporate the important to separately identify the earnings impact of increased results of its share of jointly controlled entities and associates using depreciation arising from the acquisition-date fair value uplifts made the equity method of accounting.
to property, plant and equipment over their useful economic lives.
As Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern a result of the nature of fair value assessments in the energy industry the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to the value attributed to strategic assets is a subjective judgement obtain benefits from its activities.
based on a wide range of complex variables at a point in time.
The subsequent depreciation of the fair value uplifts bears little The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year relationship to current market conditions, operational performance are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the or underlying cash generation.
Management therefore reports and effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, monitors the operational performance of Strategic Investments adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries, before the impact of depreciation on fair value uplifts to property, associates and jointly-controlled entities to bring the accounting plant and equipment and the segmental results are presented on policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are The Group has two Strategic Investments for which reported profits eliminated upon consolidation.
before certain re-measurements and exceptional items have been A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of adjusted in arriving at adjusted profit and adjusted earnings per control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
These Strategic Investments relate to the acquisition of non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration Venture Production plc Venture, the operating results of which are paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net included within the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil segment, assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on and the acquisition of the 20% interest in Lake Acquisitions Limited disposals of non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
British Energy, which owns the British Energy Group, the results net of taxation and interest of which are included within the When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any Upstream UK Power generation segment.
retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value i Venture is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently The Group acquired a controlling interest in Venture in 2009. accounting for the retained interest as a joint venture, associate or Significant adjustments have been made to the acquired property, financial asset.
plant and equipment to report the acquired oil and gas field interests at their acquisition-date fair values which are Interests in joint ventures subsequently depreciated through the Group Income Statement A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture which involves the over their respective useful economic lives using the unit of establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, which the production method.
Group controls jointly with its fellow venturers.
Under the equity method, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost Whilst the impact of unwinding the property, plant and equipment at plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of their acquisition-date fair values is included in overall reported profit the jointly controlled entity, less any impairment in value in individual for the year, the Directors have reversed the earnings impact of the investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of increased depreciation and related taxation resulting from fair value the results of operations after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
uplifts to the acquired oil and gas interests in order to arrive at adjusted profit from continuing operations after taxation.
Certain exploration and production activity is conducted through joint ventures, where the venturers have a direct interest in and ii British Energy jointly control the assets of the venture.
The results, assets, Centrica acquired its 20% interest in Lake Acquisitions Limited and liabilities and cash flows of these jointly controlled assets are thus British Energy in 2009.
The interest in British Energy is included in the consolidated Financial Statements in proportion to accounted for as an investment in an associate.
IAS 28 requires the Groups interest.
investments in associates to be accounted for using the equity method such that the Group reports its share of the associates Interests in associates profit or loss, which is net of interest and taxation, within the Groups An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest Income Statement.
IAS 28 requires that the Groups share of the and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence.
associates profit or loss includes the effects of unwinding the fair Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried at value adjustments arising from the notional fair value exercise cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net undertaken at acquisition date.
assets of the associate, less any impairment in value in individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of The most significant fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition the results of the associate, which is net of interest and taxation and of the 20% investment in British Energy relate to the fair value uplifts presents this as a single line item in arriving at Group operating profit made to the British Energy nuclear power stations to report the on the face of the Income Statement.
property, plant and equipment at their acquisition-date fair values and fair value uplifts made to British Energys energy procurement Revenue contracts and energy sales contracts to report these at their Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the acquisition-date fair values.
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue includes amounts receivable for goods Whilst the impact of increased depreciation and related taxation and services provided in the normal course of business, net of through unwinding the fair value uplifts to the nuclear power stations discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
is included in the share of associates post-acquisition result included in overall reported Group profit for the year, the Directors Energy supply: Revenue is recognised on the basis of energy have reversed these impacts in arriving at adjusted profit from supplied during the year.
Revenue for energy supply activities continuing operations for the year.
The impact of unwinding the includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between acquisition-date fair values attributable to the acquired energy the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
Unread procurement and energy sales contracts is included within certain gas and electricity is estimated using historical consumption re-measurements as explained above.
patterns, taking into account the industry reconciliation process for Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 73 11 3 11 14:11:59 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued financing arrangement is in place, the specific borrowing rate for that 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies arrangement is applied.
For non-specific financing arrangements, continued a Group financing rate representative of the weighted average total gas and total electricity usage by supplier, and is included borrowing rate of the Group is used.
Borrowing costs not arising in accrued energy income within trade and other receivables.
in connection with the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are expensed.
Proprietary energy trading: Revenue comprises both realised settled and unrealised fair value changes net gains and losses Carbon Emissions Reduction Target programme CERT from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
UK-licensed energy suppliers are set a carbon emission reduction target by the Government which is proportional to the size of their Home services and fixed-fee service contracts: Revenue from fixedcustomer base.
The current CERT programme runs from April 2008 fee service contracts is recognised in the Income Statement with to March 2011.
The target is subject to an annual adjustment regard to the incidence of risk over the life of the contract, reflecting throughout the programme period to take account of changes to a the seasonal propensity of claims to be made under the contracts UK-licensed energy suppliers customer base.
Energy suppliers can and the benefits receivable by the customer, which span the life of meet the target through expenditure on qualifying projects which the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available give rise to carbon savings.
The carbon savings can be transferred throughout the contract term.
The Group charges the costs of the Amounts paid in advance greater than recognised revenue are programme to cost of sales and capitalises costs incurred in treated as deferred income, with any paid in arrears recognised as deriving carbon savings in excess of the annual target as inventory, accrued income.
For one-off services, such as installations, revenue which is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value and is recognised at the date of service provision.
which may be used to meet the carbon emissions reduction target in subsequent periods or sold to third parties.
The inventory is Storage services: Storage capacity revenues are recognised evenly carried on a first-in, first-out basis.
The carbon emission reduction over the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for the injection target for the programme period is allocated to reporting periods and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into on a straight-line basis as adjusted by the annual or out of the storage facilities.
Gas purchases and gas sales determination process.
transactions entered into to optimise the performance of the gas storage facilities are presented net within revenue.
Employee share schemes The Group operates a number of employee share schemes, Gas production: Revenue associated with exploration and detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63 and in note production sales of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is 35, under which it makes equity-settled share-based payments to recognised when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are production of natural gas, oil and condensates in which the Group measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding the effect of has an interest with other producers is recognised based on the non-market-based vesting conditions.
The fair value determined Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant productionat the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis together with sharing arrangements the entitlement method.
Where differences a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, based arise between production sold and the Groups share of production, on the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will vest, and this is accounted for as an overlift or underlift see separate adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Gas purchases and gas sales entered into to optimise the performance of gas production facilities are presented Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the net within revenue.
different schemes as follows: Power generation: Revenue is recognised on the basis of power supplied during the period.
Power purchases and sales entered LTIS: EPS awards Market value on the date of grant into to optimise the performance of power generation facilities are after 2005 presented net within revenue.
LTIS: TSR awards A Monte Carlo simulation to predict the Interest income: Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by after 2005 total shareholder return performance reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest Sharesave Black-Scholes rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated ESOS Black-Scholes using an adjusted option future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset life assumption to reflect the possibility to that assets net carrying value.
of early exercise Cost of sales SAS, SIP, DMSS, RSS, Market value on the date of grant Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced ESPP and DBP and purchased during the year taking into account the industry reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier, and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs and Foreign currencies bought-in materials and services.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Home services and fixed-fee service contracts cost of sales Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group includes direct labour and related overheads on installation work, determines its own functional currency and items included in the repairs and service contracts in the year.
Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that Segmental reporting functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are, on initial The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner recognition, recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the consistent with the internal reporting provided to and regularly date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated reviewed by the Groups Executive Committee for the purposes in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are included in the Income Statement for the period, with the exception Borrowing costs of exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide Borrowing costs that arise in connection with the acquisition, a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised and directly to equity until the disposal or partial disposal of the net subsequently amortised in line with the depreciation of the related investment, at which time they are recognised in the Income asset.
Borrowing costs are capitalised from the time of acquisition Statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of or from the beginning of construction or production until the point historical cost in a currency other than the functional currency at which the qualifying asset is ready for use.
indd 74 11 3 11 14:12:00 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 and allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata continued on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any of the entity concerned are translated using the exchange rates impairment is not subsequently reversed.
as at the dates of the initial transactions.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture entity, the For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign subsidiary of the profit or loss on disposal.
undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated Other intangible assets into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial sheet date.
The results of foreign subsidiary undertakings, jointly recognition at cost.
Intangible assets include emissions trading controlled entities and associates are translated into pounds sterling schemes, renewable obligation certificates, certain exploration and at average rates of exchange for the relevant period.
Exchange evaluation expenditures, brands and application software, the differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets accounting policies for which are dealt with separately below.
and results for the year are transferred to the Groups foreign For purchased application software, for example investments in currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity, and customer relationship management and billing systems, cost are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In the includes contractors charges, materials,  labour event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities and  overheads.
denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation difference arising in the foreign currency translation reserve is Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being charged or credited to the Income Statement on disposal.
incurred and activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are complete.
currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to hedge Amortisation commences at the point of commercial deployment.
foreign currency net investments in foreign subsidiary undertakings, The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination jointly controlled entities and associates are taken directly to is their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
reserves and are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
All other exchange movements are recognised in the Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less Income Statement for the year.
any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either Business combinations and goodwill finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase over their useful economic life and assessed for impairment method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be and the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for other assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity an intangible asset are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 accounted for on a prospective basis by changing the amortisation revised, Business Combinations, are recognised at their fair value period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal accounting estimates.
groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less economic benefits are expected from their use.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess annually, and whenever there is an indication that the intangible of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of asset may be impaired, either individually or at the cash-generating the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, jointly controlled unit level, such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an entity or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at determine whether the indefinite life assessment continues to be cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The amortisation period for the principal categories of intangible exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is assets are as follows: recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the interest of non-controlling Application software up to 10 years shareholders in the acquiree is measured initially either at the noncontrolling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the Licences up to 20 years assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised or at fair value.
Consents up to 25 years Goodwill, which is recognised as an asset, is reviewed for Contractual customer relationships up to 20 years impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Identifiable acquired brand Indefinite Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
EU Emissions Trading Scheme and renewable obligations For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each certificates of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating Granted carbon dioxide emissions allowances received in a period units that expect to benefit from the business combination in which are recognised initially at nominal value nil value.
Purchased carbon the goodwill arose.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has dioxide emissions allowances are recognised initially at cost been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently purchase price within intangible assets.
A liability is recognised when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the when the level of emissions exceeds the level of allowances recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit or groups of cashgranted.
The liability is measured at the cost of purchased generating units is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, and then impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Income Statement Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 75 11 3 11 14:12:00 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued completion of evaluation, the relevant expenditure, including licence 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies acquisition costs, is transferred to property, plant and equipment continued and is subsequently depreciated on a unit of production basis.
If the at the market price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on with movements in the liability recognised in operating profit.
completion of evaluation, the associated costs are expensed in the period in which that determination is made.
Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of carbon dioxide emissions allowances are measured at fair value with gains and All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in the Income equipment.
Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation of Statement.
The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is production facilities and include development drilling costs, projectutilised at the end of the compliance period to reflect the related engineering and other technical services costs.
Property, consumption of economic benefits.
plant and equipment, including rights and concessions related to production activities, are depreciated from the commencement of Purchased renewable obligation certificates are recognised initially at production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production cost within intangible assets.
A liability for the renewables obligation method, based on all of the proven and probable reserves of those is recognised based on the level of electricity supplied to customers, fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
and is calculated in accordance with percentages set by the UK Government and the renewable obligation certificate buyout price The net carrying value of fields in production and development is for that period.
The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability compared on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted future is utilised at the end of the compliance period to reflect the net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial reserves.
An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net Property, plant and equipment present value of future net revenues.
Exploration and production Property, plant and equipment is included in the Balance Sheet assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
Overlift and underlift Offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced from jointly owned The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or operations are often such that it is not practical for each participant construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing the to receive or sell its precise share of the overall production during the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the period.
This results in short-term imbalances between cumulative aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration production entitlement and cumulative sales, referred to as overlift given to acquire the asset.
Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of property, plant and An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the equipment such as the replacement of major parts, major balance sheet date within trade and other payables, or trade and inspections or overhauls, are capitalised as part of the cost of the other receivables, respectively, and measured at market value, with related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits will movements in the period recognised within cost of sales.
arise as a result of the expenditure and the cost can be reliably measured.
All other subsequent expenditure, including the costs Decommissioning costs of day-to-day servicing, repairs and maintenance, is expensed Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost as incurred.
of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives of fields, and storage facilities and power stations Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and at the end of the useful life of the facilities, based on price levels equipment, with the exception of upstream production assets see and technology at the balance sheet date.
below, are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual assets When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, a over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciation periods for the decommissioning asset is recognised and included within property, principal categories of assets are as follows: plant and equipment.
Changes in these estimates and changes to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and reflected as an adjustment to the provision and corresponding decommissioning Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years asset included within property, plant and equipment.
For gas Plant 5 to 20 years production facilities and offshore storage facilities the Power stations and wind farms up to 30 years decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit of production Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years method, based on proven and probable reserves.
For power stations the decommissioning asset is amortised on a straight-line Storage up to 40 years basis over the useful life of the facility.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the Income Statement within Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their interest expense.
expected useful economic lives on the same basis as for owned Leases assets, or where shorter, the lease term.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Leases are classified Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually and if as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Exploration, evaluation and production assets All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under Centrica uses the successful efforts method of accounting for finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Exploration and evaluation equipment at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of the expenditure associated with an exploration well, including minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the acquisition costs related to exploration and evaluation activities, are lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance capitalised initially as intangible assets.
Certain expenditures such charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans as geological and geophysical exploration costs are expensed.
and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months If the prospects are subsequently determined to be successful on included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
indd 76 11 3 11 14:12:00 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 The profits or losses and cash flows that relate to a major 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies component of the Group or geographical region that has been sold continued or is classified as held for sale are presented separately from Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and continuing operations as discontinued operations within the Income reduction of the finance lease obligation so as to achieve a constant Statement and Cash Flow Statement.
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance Inventories charges are charged directly against income.
Inventories are valued on a weighted-average cost basis at the Payments under operating leases are charged to the Income lower of cost and estimated net realisable value after allowance Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the for redundant and slow-moving items, where applicable.
Take-or-pay contracts Impairment of property, plant and equipment and Where payments are made to external suppliers under take-or-pay intangible assets excluding goodwill obligations for gas not taken, they are treated as prepayments and At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying included within other receivables, as they generate future amounts of its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment economic benefits.
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have Pensions and other post-retirement benefits suffered an impairment loss or experienced an impairment reversal.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss or determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit impairment reversal.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains and losses are that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is asset may be impaired.
charged to the Income Statement over the periods benefiting from employees service.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount benefits become vested.
The difference between the expected rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of return on scheme assets and the change in present value of money.
Discount rates are based on the estimated cost of capital scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time is recognised of each cash-generating unit.
Additionally risks specific to the in the Income Statement within interest income or interest expense.
cash flows of the cash-generating units are reflected within cash flow forecasts.
The retirement benefit obligation or asset recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit of the schemes as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying the fair value of the schemes assets.
The present value of the amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its defined benefit obligation or asset is determined by discounting the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality as an expense.
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in benefits are paid, and that have terms of maturity approximating to the estimate used to determine the assets recoverable amount the terms of the related pension liability.
since the last impairment loss was recognised.
Where an Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the charged as an operating expense as they fall due.
asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount Provisions does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset legal or constructive as a result of a past event, that can be cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment measured reliably, and it is probable that the Group will be required loss is recognised as income immediately.
After such a reversal to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors the depreciation or amortisation charge, where relevant, is adjusted best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining the effect is material.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the useful life.
provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the Income Statement within interest expense.
Onerous contract provisions are Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale and recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations discontinued operations under a contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale received under it.
Given the fungible nature of energy, contracts to are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less purchase or sell energy are reviewed on a portfolio basis whereby it costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current is assumed that the highest priced purchase contract supplies the assets classified as held for sale.
highest priced sales contract and the lowest priced sales contract is Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for supplied by the lowest priced purchase contract.
sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 77 11 3 11 14:12:00 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued d Cash and cash equivalents 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current continued balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily Taxation convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue tax insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or of three months or less.
recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or For the purpose of the Group Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the e Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill if All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially amortisation of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes or the recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs.
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and other borrowings not a business combination and at the time of the transaction are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss.
interest method, except when they are the hedged item in an Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount effective fair value hedge relationship, where the carrying value is of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets the hedged risks.
Such fair value movements are recognised in the within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis account any issue costs, discount or premium.
of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there f Available-for-sale financial assets will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary assets that are designated as available-for-sale, which are difference can be utilised.
recognised initially at fair value within the Balance Sheet.
AvailableDeferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on for-sale financial assets are re-measured subsequently at fair value subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be directly in equity and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Income, until the asset is disposed of or is determined to be reverse in the foreseeable future.
impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income Statement for the Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected period.
Accrued interest or dividends arising on available-for-sale to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability financial assets are recognised in the Income Statement.
settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Measurement of At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences objective evidence that available-for-sale financial assets are expected from the manner in which the asset or liability is recovered impaired.
If any such evidence exists, cumulative losses recognised or settled.
in equity are removed from equity and recognised in profit and loss.
The cumulative loss removed from equity represents the difference Financial instruments between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual or loss.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the Group no longer has the rights to cash flows, the risks and Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement for equity rewards of ownership or control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are investments classified as available-for-sale are not subsequently fide-recognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, reversed through the Income Statement.
Impairment losses cancelled or expires.
recognised in the Income Statement for debt instruments classified as available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the a Trade receivables fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group may not g Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss be able to collect the trade receivable.
Balances are written off when The Group holds investments in gilts which it designates as fair recoverability is assessed as being remote.
If collection is due in one value through profit or loss in order to reduce significantly a year or less they are classified as current assets.
If not they are measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise.
Investments presented as non-current assets.
are measured at fair value on initial recognition and are re-measured to fair value in each subsequent reporting period.
Gains and losses b Trade payables arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount.
If payment Statement within interest income or interest expense.
is due within one year or less they are classified as current liabilities.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
h Derivative financial instruments The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for c Share capital physical delivery of gas, power and oil.
A number of these Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly transactions take the form of contracts that were entered into and attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the deduction from the proceeds received.
Own equity instruments that physical commodity in accordance with the Groups expected are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain sale, purchase or usage requirements, and are not within the scope or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on the purchase, of IAS 39. sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
indd 78 11 3 11 14:12:01 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate continued derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery of related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are gas, power and oil are within the scope of IAS 39 due to the fact not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the Income that they net settle or contain written options.
The closely-related nature of embedded derivatives is accounted for as derivatives under IAS 39 and are recognised in the reassessed when there is a change in the terms of the contract Balance Sheet at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes which significantly modifies the future cash flows under the contract.
in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Where a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives, and are taken directly to the Income Statement for the year.
providing that the embedded derivative significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract, the option to fair value the entire The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to hedge contract may be taken and the contract will be recognised at fair exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange value with changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of business.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the Groups i Hedge accounting policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Further detail on the For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either Groups risk management policies is included within the Directors as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net Report Governance on pages 46 to 48 and in note 4 to the investments in foreign operations.
Fair value hedges: A derivative is classified as a fair value hedge The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on whether when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of a they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes.
A derivative recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from re-measuring the instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it hedging instrument to fair value is recognised immediately in the alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable with the Groups risk management policies and is in accordance to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the with established guidelines, which require the hedging relationship hedged item and recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group to be documented at its inception, ensure that the derivative is discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument highly effective in achieving its objective, and require that its expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer effectiveness can be reliably measured.
The Group also holds qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
derivatives which are not designated as hedges and are held Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial for trading.
instrument for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the Income Statement.
Amortisation may begin as All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which the soon as an adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at each the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are offset and presented on a net Cash flow hedges: A derivative is classified as a cash flow hedge basis only when both a legal right of set-off exists and the intention when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is to net settle the derivative contracts is present.
attributable to a particular risk either associated with a recognised asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The portion The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective is periods for which observable market data does not exist.
The fair recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is recognised value of such derivatives is estimated by reference in part to in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses that are recognised published price quotations from active markets, to the extent that directly in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the such observable market data exists, and in part by using valuation same period in which the highly probable forecast transaction techniques, whose inputs include data which is not based on or affects income, for example when the future sale of physical gas or derived from observable markets.
Where the fair value at initial physical power actually occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, a of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are fair value gain or fair value loss will arise.
This is referred to as a daytransferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset one gain or day-one loss.
Such gains and losses are deferred and or liability on its recognition.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes purchased the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or delivered over the contractual period until such time observable without replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for hedge market data becomes available.
When observable market data accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
becomes available, any remaining deferred day-one gains or losses are recognised within the Income Statement.
Recognition of the At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value depends on the instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the highly purpose for issuing or holding the derivative.
For derivatives that do probable forecast transaction occurs.
If the transaction is no longer not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity changes in fair value are taken directly to the Income Statement and is recognised in the Income Statement.
are included within gross profit or interest income and interest Net investment hedges: Hedges of net investments in foreign expense.
Gains and losses arising on derivatives entered into for operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain speculative energy trading purposes are presented on a net basis or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, within revenue.
any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the Income Statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 79 11 3 11 14:12:01 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of continued estimation uncertainty Nuclear activity a Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting The Groups investments in Lake Acquisitions Limited and NNB policies Holding Company Limited are accounted for as associates.
The The Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2 and Notes to following accounting policies are specific to the accounting for the the Financial Statements include descriptions of key judgements nuclear activity of these associates.
management has made in applying the Groups accounting policies.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the a Fuel costs nuclear front end amounts recognised in the Financial Statements apart from those Front end fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of uranium, involving estimations which are dealt with below include the conversion and enrichment services and fuel element fabrication.
following: All costs are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
the presentation of certain items as exceptional notes 2 and 9: b Fuel costs nuclear back end the use of adjusted profit and adjusted earnings per share Advanced Gas-cooled Reactors AGR measures notes 2 and 14: and Spent fuel extracted from the reactors is sent for reprocessing the classification of energy procurement contracts as derivative and or long-term storage and eventual disposal of resulting waste financial instruments and presentation as certain reproducts.
Back end fuel costs comprise a loading related cost per measurements notes 2, 4, 9 and 22. tonne of uranium and a rebate surcharge to this cost dependent on the out-turn market electricity price in the year and are capitalised In addition to those described above, management has made the into inventory and charged to the Income Statement in proportion following key judgements in applying the Groups accounting to the amount of fuel burnt.
policies that have the most significant effect on the Groups Financial Statements.
Pressurised Water Reactor PWR Back end fuel costs are based on wet storage in station ponds Wind farm partial disposal followed by dry storage and subsequent direct disposal of fuel.
On 5 February 2010 the Group disposed of 50% of the equity Back end fuel costs are capitalised into inventory on loading and voting share capital and 50% of the existing shareholder loan of charged to the income statement in proportion to the amount of Lincs Windfarm Limited formerly Centrica Lincs Limited Lincs, fuel burnt.
the owner of the proposed wind farm see note 38. c Nuclear property, plant and equipment and depreciation As part of this disposal, the Group contracted to purchase 75% of The depreciation period for the principal categories of nuclear the power output and levy exemption certificates and 50% of the assets, which are depreciated on a straight-line basis from the date renewable obligation certificates produced by the wind farm under of the Group acquiring its share in British Energy, are as follows: a 15-year offtake agreement.
The pricing of this arrangement was on an arms length basis.
The Group also contracted to provide management, operational and transitional support services to Lincs AGR power stations Up to 13 years as directed by their board and shareholders.
A shareholders PWR power station 25 years agreement was put in place which included a number of reserved matters and provides for joint management of the major decisions of the company.
Expenditure on major inspection and overhauls of production plant is depreciated over the period until the next outage which for AGR The Directors have judged that the disposal of equity voting share power stations is two to three years and for the PWR power station capital is a loss of control over the financial and operating policies is 18 months.
The offtake agreement pricing together with the other arrangements in place mean that the majority of the benefits and d Nuclear Liabilities Fund NLF funding arrangements residual risks of owning the windfarms reside with Lincs and not Under the arrangements in place with the Secretary of State, the Centrica.
Accordingly, the remaining investment in Lincs is equity NLF will fund, subject to certain exceptions, British Energys accounted as an investment in a joint venture see note 19.
The qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities and qualifying Directors have judged that the 15-year offtake agreement is not a decommissioning costs.
This is because the Group is not purchasing In part-consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the substantially all of the economic output of the wind farm.
This Secretary of State and the NLF, British Energy agreed to pay fixed contract is considered to be outside the scope of IAS 39 apart from decommissioning contributions each year and 150,000 indexed to the embedded derivative arising from the pricing terms which is RPI for every tonne of uranium in PWR fuel loaded into the Sizewell marked to market separately.
B reactor after the date of these arrangements.
In the previous year, the Group disposed of 50% of the equity voting e NLF and nuclear liabilities receivables share capital of GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited GLID, the owner The Government indemnity is provided to indemnify any future of Glens of Foudland and Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms on shortfall on NLF funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities 11 December 2009.
This transaction was also deemed to be a loss including PWR back end fuel services and qualifying nuclear of control and the remaining investment in GLID is equity accounted decommissioning costs such that the receivable equals the present as an investment in a joint venture see note 19.
The Directors have value of the associated qualifying nuclear liabilities.
judged that the 15-year offtake agreement is not a leasing arrangement.
The contract is assessed as falling outside the scope f Nuclear liabilities of IAS 39 with respect to the own-use exemption, however the Nuclear liabilities represent provision for British Energys liabilities embedded derivative in the pricing mechanism is being marked in respect of the costs of waste management of spent fuel and to market separately.
g Unburnt fuels at shutdown Due to the nature of the nuclear fuel process there will be quantities of unburnt fuel in the reactors at station closure.
The costs relating to this unburnt fuel final core are estimated by applying a long-term inflation index to the projected costs, which are then discounted.
indd 80 11 3 11 14:12:01 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 EU Emissions Trading Scheme 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of The Group has been subject to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme estimation uncertainty continued EU ETS since 1 January 2005.
IFRIC 3, Emissions Rights, was Finance lease third-party power station tolling withdrawn by the IASB in June 2005, and has not been replaced arrangement by definitive guidance.
The Group has adopted an accounting policy The Group has a long-term tolling arrangement with the Spalding which recognises carbon dioxide emissions liabilities when the level power station.
The contract provides Centrica with the right to of emissions exceeds the level of allowances granted by the nominate 100% of the plant output until 2021 in return for a mix Government in the period.
The liability is measured at the cost of of capacity payments and operating payments based on plant purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, availability.
Centrica holds an option to extend the tolling and then at market price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet arrangement for a further eight years, exercisable by 30 September date.
Movements in the liability are reflected within operating profit.
If extended, Centrica is granted an option to purchase the Forward contracts for sales and purchases of allowances are station at the end of this further period.
The Directors have judged measured at fair value.
that the arrangement should be accounted for as a finance lease Petroleum revenue tax PRT as the lease term is judged to be substantially all of the economic life The definition of an income tax in IAS 12, Income Taxes, has led of the power station and the present value of the minimum lease management to judge that PRT should be treated consistently with payments at inception date of the arrangement amounted to other income taxes.
The charge for the year is presented within substantially all of the fair value of the power station at that time.
taxation on profit from continuing operations in the Income Details of the finance lease asset, finance lease creditor and interest Statement.
Deferred amounts are included within deferred tax charges are included in notes 18, 26 and 10 respectively.
assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
Provision for onerous gas contract b Key sources of estimation uncertainty On 1 October 2009 an onerous contract provision was established The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources for a gas purchase contract for which a two-year notice had been of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a served to terminate see notes 9 and 28.
This contract provided the significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying Group with the option to purchase gas for which a significant amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are capacity charge was incurred regardless of the offtake.
charges are unavoidable costs of the contract.
The economic benefits expected to be received under the contract have been Revenue recognition unread gas and electricity meters estimated using the Groups standard contract valuation Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of methodology.
Management has judged that, following serving notice energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter to terminate, this contract no longer forms part of the Groups gas reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity supply and that any gas delivered under the contract is delivered to comprises both billed and unbilled revenue.
It is estimated through minimise the overall cost of the contract during the notice period the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a rather than to satisfy the Groups overall demand for gas.
Therefore customer by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, the expected economic benefits have been estimated based on load forecasts and the differences between actual meter reads market prices rather than being valued on a portfolio basis as being returned and system estimates.
Actual meter reads continue explained in note 2. to be compared to system estimates between the balance sheet date and the finalisation of the accounts.
An assessment is also Operating Lease third party power station tolling made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the ultimate arrangement economic benefits which will flow to the Group, including bill The Group has a long-term tolling arrangement with the newly built cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent that the economic Rijnmond power station in The Netherlands.
The Rijnmond power benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that station commenced operation in May 2010.
The contract provides revenue is not recognised.
The judgements applied, and the Centrica with the right to nominate 100% of the plant output until assumptions underpinning these judgements, are considered to be 2029 in return for a mix of capacity payments and operating appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would have payments based on plant availability.
Centrica does not have the an impact on the amount of revenue recognised.
right to extend the agreement or any option to purchase the plant.
The Directors have judged that the arrangement should be Industry reconciliation process cost of sales accounted for as an operating lease as the lease term is not judged Industry reconciliation procedures are required as differences arise to be substantially all of the economic life of the power station and between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception date deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated of the arrangement did not amount to substantially all of the fair quantity industry system operators deem the individual suppliers, value of the power station at that time.
Details of the operating lease including the Group, to have supplied to customers.
Difference in disclosures are included in note 39. deemed supply is referred to as imbalance.
The reconciliation procedures can result in either a higher or lower value of industry Business combinations and acquisitions purchase price deemed supply than has been estimated as being supplied to allocations customers by the Group, but in practice tends to result in a higher For business combinations and acquisitions of associates and joint value of deemed supply.
The Group then reviews the difference to ventures, IFRS requires that a fair value exercise is undertaken ascertain whether there is evidence that its estimate of amounts allocating the purchase price cost of acquiring controlling interests supplied to customers is inaccurate or whether the difference arises and interests in associates and joint ventures to the fair value of the from other causes.
The Groups share of the resulting imbalance is acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
included within commodity costs charged to cost of sales.
Any difference between the cost of acquiring the interest and the Management estimates the level of recovery of imbalance which will fair value of the acquired net assets, which includes identified be achieved either through subsequent customer billing or through contingent liabilities, is recognised as acquired goodwill.
The fair developing industry settlement procedures.
value exercise is performed at the date of acquisition.
As a result Determination of fair values energy derivatives of the nature of fair value assessments in the energy industry the Derivative contracts are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value, purchase price allocation exercise and acquisition-date fair value with changes in fair value recorded in either the Income Statement determinations require subjective judgements based on a wide or the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Fair values of energy range of complex variables at a point in time.
Management uses all derivatives are estimated by reference in part to published price available information to make the fair value determinations.
Business quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation combinations are set out in note 37.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 81 11 3 11 14:12:01 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Impairment of power generation and upstream gas assets 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Power generation and upstream gas assets are assessed for estimation uncertainty continued indicators of impairment at each reporting date in accordance with techniques.
More detail on the assumptions used in determining fair the Groups accounting policies as described in note 2.
If an valuations is provided in note 29. indicator of impairment exists, an assessment of the recoverable amount of the asset is required to be made.
Indicators of impairment Gas and liquids reserves for these assets may include, but are not limited to, the following: The volume of proven and probable gas and liquids reserves is an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of producing reductions in reserve estimates or profiles of production: gas and liquids property, plant and equipment, as well as being declines in long-term commodity prices: a significant estimate affecting decommissioning estimates and impairment calculations.
The factors impacting gas and liquids increases in capital expenditure or acceleration of known capital estimates, the process for estimating reserve quantities and reserve expenditure: recognition are described on page 149. significant unplanned outages or problems with operational The impact of a change in estimated proven and probable reserves performance: and is dealt with prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value changes in regulatory or tax environments.
of producing assets over the expected future production.
If proven and probable reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings The recoverable amount of power generation and upstream gas could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate assets is assessed with reference to either each individual assets write-down impairment of the assets book value.
value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use is based on the pre-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the asset Decommissioning costs and is dependent on views of forecast generation production, The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the producing forecast commodity prices using market prices where available lives of fields is reviewed periodically and is based on proven and and internal estimates for the remainder of the period and the timing probable reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet and extent of capital expenditure.
The fair value less costs to sell is date.
Provision is made for the estimated cost of decommissioning determined by using evidence from recent acquisitions for similar at the balance sheet date.
The payment dates of total expected assets in the local oil and gas market, or by discounting the post-tax future decommissioning costs are uncertain and dependent on the cash flows expected to be generated, net of associated selling lives of the facilities, but are currently anticipated to be between costs, taking into account assumptions market participants would 2011 and 2055, with the substantial majority of the costs expected use in estimating fair value.
For gas fired power stations, which have a high degree of Provisions are determined for the estimated costs of production flexibility, the value in use calculation also includes a decommissioning British Energys nuclear power stations and the scenario-based statistical assessment of the additional value which costs of waste management and spent fuel.
Various arrangements can be generated from optimising production to take advantage of and indemnities are in place with the Secretary of State with respect volatile forward prices.
Pre-tax cash flows for the first three years are to these costs, as explained in note 2. based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year business Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived plans and thereafter are estimated on a consistent basis to reflect intangible assets cash flows up to the date of cessation of operation of the asset.
The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite-lived Pre-tax cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis in reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
accordance with the Groups accounting policy, as described in Discount rates are based on the estimated cost of capital of each note 2.
This requires the determination of the recoverable amount cash-generating unit.
Additionally, risks specific to the cash flows of the cash-generating units to which goodwill and indefinite-lived of the cash-generating units are reflected within cash flow forecasts.
The recoverable amounts are determined Further details of impairments arising and the carrying values of the by either estimating the value in use of those cash-generating units Groups power generation and upstream gas assets are included or, in the case of the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil cashwithin note 18. generating unit, determining the fair value less costs to sell of the Trade and other receivables provisions for credit losses cash-generating unit.
Value in use calculations require the Group to The methodology for determining provisions for credit losses on make an estimate of the expected future cash flows to be derived trade and other receivables and the level of such provisions are set from the cash-generating units and to choose a suitable discount out in note 21.
The estimates and assumptions used to determine rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
the level of provisions are reviewed periodically.
Although the The fair value less costs to sell methodology is deemed more provisions recognised are considered appropriate, the use of appropriate for the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil cashdifferent assumptions or changes in economic conditions could lead generating unit as it is based on post-tax cash flows arising from to changes in the provisions and therefore impact profit or loss.
each field within the cash-generating unit, which is consistent with the approach taken by management in determining the economic value of the underlying assets.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the gas and oil production and development assets within the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil cash-generating unit, net of associated selling costs, and takes into account assumptions market participants would use in estimating fair value.
Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in determining the value in use and fair value less costs to sell calculations is provided in note 17.
indd 82 11 3 11 14:12:02 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 Market risk management 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market estimation uncertainty continued prices commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates Pensions and other postretirement benefits and equity prices.
The level of market risk to which the Group is The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
exposed at a point in time varies depending on market conditions, The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is expectations of future price or market rate movements and the determined separately for each scheme under the projected unit composition of the Groups physical asset and contract portfolios.
Actuarial gains and losses are a Commodity price risk management recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
The key The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its upstream assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based on the assets, energy procurement contracts, downstream and proprietary Groups best estimate of the variables that will determine the energy trading activities and uses specific limits to manage the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, on which exposure to commodity prices associated with the Groups activities further detail is provided in note 36. to an acceptable level.
Volumetric limits are supported by Profit at North America Wind farm onerous contract provision Risk PaR and Value at Risk VaR methodologies in the UK and in In 2009 an onerous contract provision amounting to 55 million was North America and a VaR methodology in Europe to measure the recognised within the North America Upstream and wholesale Groups exposure to commodity price risk.
Limits are also set on energy segment relating to certain wind farm power purchase PaR and VaR measurements as a further control over exposure to agreements to reflect the fair value of the obligation to purchase market prices.
power which was above the net realisable value obtained from i Energy procurement, upstream and downstream selling the power.
The profitability of the wind farm power purchase activities agreements is measured taking into account the expected revenue The Groups energy procurement, upstream and downstream and cost streams relating to each agreement.
This measurement activities consist of equity gas and liquids production, equity power involves the use of estimates relating to expected wind forecasts, generation, bilateral procurement and sales contracts, marketforward curves for energy prices and renewable energy certificates traded purchase and sales contracts and derivative positions taken prices for which there is not a liquid market for the full term of all the on with the intent of securing gas and power for the Groups contracts.
In 2010 the position has deteriorated further, driven downstream customers in the UK, Europe and North America from predominantly by falling forward power prices, and the provision has a variety of sources at an optimal cost.
The Group actively manages been increased by 67 million in the period resulting, after utilisation commodity price risk by optimising its asset and contract portfolios of part of the provision in 2010, in a provision of 101 million at the and making use of volume flexibility.
Although the provision recognised is considered appropriate, it is reasonably possible that changes in economic The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy conditions or the use of different assumptions could lead to further procurement, upstream and downstream activities because the cost changes in the provision and therefore impact profit or loss in of procuring gas and electricity to serve its downstream customers the future.
varies with wholesale commodity prices.
The risk is primarily that market prices for commodities will fluctuate between the time that 4.
Financial risk management sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the The Groups normal operating, investing and financing activities corresponding procurement cost is fixed, thereby potentially expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including reducing expected margins or making sales unprofitable.
commodity price risk, volumetric risk, currency risk, interest rate risk The Group is also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of an and equity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall uncertain consumption profile arising from a range of factors, risk management process is designed to identify, manage and including weather, energy consumption changes, customer attrition mitigate business risk, which includes, among others, financial risk.
Further detail on the Groups overall risk management process is included within the Directors Report Governance on pages 46 In order to manage the exposure to market prices associated with to 48. the Groups energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities the Group uses a specific set of limits including position, 2010 was marked by a continuing shortage of available credit in volumetric, VaR PaR established and governed by GFRMC European energy markets due to the continuing impact from the oversight, along with business unit market risk policies.
financial crisis, emerging European Sovereign debt concerns and general economic conditions.
Credit markets in North America have Volumetric limits are supported by PaR and VaR methodologies in started to improve, although consolidation in the energy industry the UK and in North America and a VaR methodology in Europe to and the implications of the Deepwater Horizon incident impacted measure the Groups exposure to commodity price risk.
Limits are overall market activity.
The Group continues to be vigilant and also set on PaR and VaR measurements as a further control over manage credit risk in accordance with its risk management policy.
PaR measures the estimated potential loss in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the Financial risk management is overseen by the Group Financial Risk movement of a commodity price for a given confidence level, over Management Committee GFRMC according to objectives, targets the remaining term of the position or contract portfolio.
VaR and policies set by the Board.
Commodity price risk management is measures the estimated potential loss for a given confidence level carried out in accordance with individual business unit Financial Risk over a predetermined holding period.
The standard confidence level Management Committees and their respective financial risk used is 95%.
In addition, stress tests are regularly performed to management policies, as approved by the GFRMC under delegated evaluate the impact of substantial movements in commodity prices.
Treasury risk management, including management of currency risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk and liquidity risk is carried out by a central Group Treasury function in accordance with the Groups financing and treasury policy and collateral risk policy, as approved by the Board.
The wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury positions are managed in accordance with the Groups credit risk policy.
Downstream credit risk management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit credit policies.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 83 11 3 11 14:12:02 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations that 4.
Financial risk management continued arise from the assumptions used in the VaR analysis.
VaR assumes The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk that the future will behave like the past and that the Groups trading associated with the Groups entire energy procurement, upstream positions can be unwound or hedged within the predetermined and downstream portfolio.
Only certain of the Groups energy holding period.
Furthermore, the use of a 95% confidence level, by procurement, upstream and downstream contracts constitute definition, does not take into account changes in value that might financial instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As a result, while the occur beyond this confidence level.
Group manages the commodity price risk associated with both The VaR, before taxation, associated with the Groups proprietary financial and non-financial energy procurement, upstream and energy trading activities at 31 December 2010 was 0.2 million downstream contracts, it is the notional value of energy contracts 2009: 1.6 million.
The carrying value of energy contracts used being carried at fair value that represents the exposure of the in proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2010 is Groups energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities disclosed in note 22. to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
This is because energy contracts that are financial b Currency risk management instruments under IAS 39 are accounted for on a fair value basis The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency and changes in fair value immediately impact profit or equity.
denominated forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary Conversely, energy contracts that are not financial instruments assets and liabilities transactional exposure and on its net under IAS 39 are accounted for as executory contracts and investments in foreign operations translational exposure.
changes in fair value do not immediately impact profit or equity, i Transactional currency risk and as such, are not exposed to commodity price risk as defined The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on transactions by IFRS 7.
So whilst the PaR or VaR associated with energy denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional procurement and downstream contracts outside the scope of currency of the commercial operation transacting.
The Groups IAS 39 is monitored for internal risk management purposes, only primary functional currencies are pounds sterling in the UK, those energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are within the Canadian dollars in Canada, US dollars in the US, Norwegian krone scope of the IFRS 7 disclosure requirements.
in Norway and euros in The Netherlands.
The risk is that the The net gain within operating profit of 1,163 million 2009: functional currency value of cash flows will vary as a result of 71 million loss on the re-measurement of energy contracts largely movements in exchange rates.
Transactional exposure arises from represents net gains on settlements or delivery of contracts.
As gas the Groups energy procurement activities in the UK and in Canada, and power were delivered under these contracts, net out of the where a number of transactions are denominated in euros or money positions from 2009 unwound, generating a net credit to the US dollars and on certain capital commitments denominated in income statement.
There were also unrealised mark-to-market gains foreign currencies.
In addition, in order to optimise the cost of created by gas and power purchase contracts which are priced funding, the Group has, in certain cases, issued foreign currency below the current wholesale market value of energy.
These gains denominated debt, primarily in US dollars, New Zealand dollars, are calculated with reference to forward energy prices and therefore euros or Japanese yen.
the extent of the economic gain or loss arising over the life of these It is the Groups policy to hedge all material transactional exposures contracts is uncertain, and entirely dependent upon the level of using forward contracts to fix the functional currency value of nonfuture wholesale energy prices.
Generally, subject to short-term functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December 2010, there were balancing, the ultimate net charge to cost of sales will be consistent no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or with the price of energy agreed in these contracts and the fair value liabilities, firm commitments or probable forecast transactions 2009: adjustments will reverse as the energy is supplied over the life of nil, other than foreign currency borrowings used to hedge the contract.
The carrying value of energy contracts used in energy procurement, ii Translational currency risk upstream and downstream activities at 31 December 2010 is The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of its disclosed in note 22.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to net investments in North America and Europe.
The risk is that the illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and pounds sterling value of the net assets of foreign operations will performance to changes in the fair value or future cash flows of decrease with changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups financial instruments associated with the Groups energy policy is to protect the pounds sterling book value of its net procurement, upstream and downstream activities as a result of investments in foreign operations, subject to certain parameters changes in commodity prices is provided below in section e. monitored by the GFRMC, by holding foreign currency debt, ii Proprietary energy trading entering into foreign currency derivatives, or a mixture of both.
The Groups proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical The Group manages translational currency risk taking into and financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on consideration the cash impact of any hedging activity as well as the with the intent of benefiting in the short term from changes in market risk to the net asset numbers in the Groups Financial Statements.
prices or differences between buying and selling prices.
The Group The translation hedging programme including the potential cash conducts its trading activities in the over-the-counter market and impact is monitored by the GFRMC.
through exchanges in the UK, North America and continental Europe.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of its trading assets and liabilities will fluctuate with changes in market prices for commodities.
The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the commodity price risk exposure associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities.
The VaR used measures the estimated potential loss for a 95% confidence level over a one-day holding period.
The holding period used is based on market liquidity and the number of days the Group would expect it to take to close out a trading position.
indd 84 11 3 11 14:12:02 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December 4.
Financial risk management continued 2010 balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of fixed The Group measures and manages the currency risk associated to floating rates of debt and derivatives, the proportion of energy with all transactional and translational exposures.
In contrast, IFRS 7 contracts that are financial instruments, the proportion of financial only requires disclosure of currency risk arising on financial instruments in foreign currencies and the hedge designations in instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional place at 31 December 2010 are all constant.
Excluded from this currency of the commercial operation transacting.
As a result, for analysis are all non-financial assets and liabilities and energy the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes the Groups net contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39.
The investments in North America and Europe as well as foreign sensitivity to foreign exchange rates relates only to monetary assets currency denominated forecast transactions and firm commitments.
and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the currency of the commercial operation transacting, and excludes the Groups financial position and performance to changes in the fair translation of the net assets of foreign operations to pounds sterling, value or future cash flows of foreign currency denominated financial but includes the corresponding impact of financial instruments used instruments as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates is in net investment hedges.
provided below in section e. The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be c Interest rate risk management used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the the Groups actual exposure to market rates is changing constantly fair value of fixed rate borrowings and the cash flows associated as the Groups portfolio of commodity, debt and foreign currency with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes in interest contracts changes.
Changes in fair values or cash flows based on rates.
The Groups policy is to manage the interest rate risk on longa variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the term borrowings by ensuring the exposure to floating interest rates relationship between the change in market variable and the change remains within a 30% to 70% range, including the impact of interest in fair value or cash flows may not be linear.
In addition, the effect of rate derivatives.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to is calculated without considering interrelationships between the changes in interest rates is provided below in section e. various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The sensitivity analysis provided below excludes the d Equity price risk management impact of proprietary energy trading assets and liabilities because The Group is exposed to equity price risk because certain availablethe VaR associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading for-sale financial assets, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf activities has already been provided above in section a. of the Company as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme, are linked to equity indices note 36.
Investments in equity indices are inherently exposed to less risk than individual equity investments because they represent a naturally diverse portfolio.
Note 36 details the Groups other retirement benefit assets and liabilities.
e Sensitivity analysis IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in market variables commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates as a result of changes in the fair value or cash flows associated with the Groups financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss and equity at 31 December 2010 assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred at 31 December 2010 and been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date to show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price on profit or loss and equity to the next annual reporting date.
Reasonably possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity analysis are based on implied volatilities, where available, or historical data for energy prices and foreign exchange rates.
Reasonably possible changes in interest rates are based on management judgement and historical experience.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 85 11 3 11 14:12:02 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Financial risk management continued The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2010 2009 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change change Energy prices Base price i in variable Base price i in variable UK gas p therm 59 11 41 10 UK power MWh 51 5 41 5 UK coal US$ tonne 121 21 99 20 UK emissions tonne 14 2 13 3 UK oil US$ bbl 95 18 86 19 North American gas USc therm 52 9 65 11 North American power US$ MWh 48 4 61 5 European power MWh 55 8 53 5 i The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided.
2010 2009 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on profit equity profit equity Incremental profit loss m m m m UK energy prices combined increase decrease 98 79 32 32 38 38 30 30 North American energy prices combined increase decrease 25 25 7 7 46 46 21 21 European energy prices combined increase decrease 10 10 14 14 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in interest rates on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2010 2009 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on in variable profit equity in variable profit equity Interest rates and incremental profit loss % m m % m m UK interest rates 1.0 14 12 14 18 1.0 5 9 16 19 US interest rates 1.0 2 6 1.0 6 7 7 9 Canadian interest rates 1.0 2 3 1.0 4 4 Euro interest rates 1.0 7 5 1.0 12 12 Japanese interest rates 1.0 16 21 1.0 13 17 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in foreign currency rates relative to pounds sterling on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2010 2009 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on Foreign exchange rates and incremental in variable profit equity in variable profit equity profit loss % m m % m m US dollar 10 75 94 20 18 10 43 51 4 2 Canadian dollar 10 20 20 52 43 10 3 10 10 Euro 10 28 33 5 7 10 3 8 14 9 Danish krone 10 10 27 33 Norwegian krone 10 1 13 11 10 1 1 5 6 86 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 86 11 3 11 14:12:03 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 Liquidity risk management and going concern 4.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial Credit risk management obligations as they fall due.
The Group experiences significant Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterpartys inability movements in its liquidity position due primarily to the seasonal or failure to discharge its obligations under a contract.
The Group is nature of its business and margin cash arrangements associated exposed to credit risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement with certain wholesale commodity contracts.
To mitigate this risk and downstream activities.
The Group continues to take steps to the Group maintains significant committed facilities and holds cash tighten downstream credit policies, including the tightening of on deposit.
The Groups liquidity position has remained strong credit scores in customer management processes, whilst throughout 2010. continuing to manage credit risk in accordance with financial risk 2010 2009 management processes.
Year ended 31 December m m Note 22 provides further detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk Cash pledged as collateral at 1 January 631 626 on derivative financial instruments, note 21 provides detail of the Net cash inflow outflow 466 79 Groups exposure to credit risk on trade and other receivables, note Transferred to discontinued operations 15 24 provides detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on cash and Foreign exchange gains losses 8 59 cash equivalents and note 29 provides the carrying value of Cash pledged as collateral at all financial assets representing the Groups maximum exposure to i 31 December 173 631 credit risk.
i Within discontinued operations there was also a net 25 million cash outflow of collateral in a Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities the period 2009: 26 million inflow.
The closing balance of cash pledged within discontinued Wholesale counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual operations was 11 million 2009: 6 million and cash held was nil 2009: 18 million.
counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved limits.
The majority of significant exposures are with The Group has a number of treasury and risk policies to monitor and counterparties rated A A3 or better.
The Group uses master netting manage liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts identifying the Groups liquidity agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with requirements are produced regularly and are stress-tested for counterparties where net settlement provisions exist.
In addition, different scenarios, including, but not limited to, reasonably possible the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: increases or decreases in commodity prices and the potential cash margining, various forms of bank and parent company guarantees implications of a credit rating downgrade.
The Group seeks to and letters of credit.
ensure that sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as 100% of the Groups credit risk associated with its treasury, trading a going concern.
It is the Group's policy to maintain committed and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in related facilities and or available surplus cash resources of at least energy industries or with financial institutions.
The Group measures 1,200 million, to raise at least 75% of its net debt excluding nonand manages the credit risk associated with the Groups entire recourse debt in the long-term debt market and to maintain an treasury, trading and energy procurement portfolio.
In contrast, average term to maturity in the recourse long-term debt portfolio IFRS 7 defines credit risk as the risk that one party to a financial greater than five years.
instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation and requires disclosure of information about At 31 December 2010, the Group had undrawn committed credit the exposure to credit risk arising from financial instruments only.
facilities of 2,873 million 2009: 2,083 million and 467 million Only certain of the Groups energy procurement contracts constitute 2009: 1,294 million of cash and cash equivalents.
121% 2009: financial instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As a result, whilst the 148% of the Groups net debt has been raised in the long-term Group manages the credit risk associated with both financial and debt market and the average term to maturity of the long-term debt non-financial energy procurement contracts, it is the carrying value portfolio was 10.5 years 2009: 9.6 years.
of financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 note 29 that The relatively high level of undrawn committed bank borrowing represents the maximum exposure to credit risk in accordance facilities and available cash resources has enabled the Directors to with IFRS 7. conclude that the Group has sufficient headroom to continue as a b Downstream activities going concern.
The statement of going concern is included in the In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by Directors' Report Governance, on page 48. checking a companys creditworthiness and financial strength both Maturities of derivative financial liabilities, trade and other payables, before commencing trade and during the business relationship.
For bank borrowings and provisions are provided in notes 22, 25, 26 residential customers, creditworthiness is ascertained normally and 28, respectively.
Details of commitments and contingencies are before commencing trade by reviewing an appropriate mix of provided in note 39. internal and external information to determine the payment mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an acceptable level.
Certain customers will only be accepted on a prepayment basis or with a security deposit.
In some cases, an ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage the exposure to credit risk associated with both business and residential customers.
In other cases, credit risk is monitored and managed by grouping customers according to the method of payment or profile.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 87 11 3 11 14:12:03 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
Capital management The Group funds its business using a combination of debt and shareholders equity.
The Groups capital employed was financed as follows: 2010 2009 31 December m m Current and non-current borrowings 4,036 4,680 Deduct: Cash and cash equivalents 467 1,294 Current and non-current securities 257 250 Net debt note 34b 3,312 3,136 Shareholders equity 5,819 4,192 Capital 9,131 7,328 The Group seeks to maintain an efficient capital structure with a balance of debt and equity.
Debt levels are restricted to limit the risk of financial distress and, in particular, to maintain strong credit ratings.
The Groups credit ratings are important in keeping the cost of debt down, in limiting collateral requirements in energy trading and hedging, and in ensuring the Group is an attractive counterparty to gas and power producers and to customers for longer term energy contracts.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups long-term credit rating was A3 stable outlook for Moodys Investor Services Inc. and A stable outlook for Standard & Poors Rating Services.
These ratings did not change during 2010.
The Group monitors its current and projected capital position on a regular basis, considering a medium-term view of three to five years, and different stress case scenarios, including the impact of changes in the Groups credit ratings and significant movements in commodity prices.
A number of financial ratios are monitored, including those used by the credit rating agencies, such as debt to cash flow ratios i and EBITDA to gross interest expense.
At 31 December 2010, the ratio of the Groups net debt to EBITDA was 1.0 2009: 1.2.
EBITDA to gross interest expense for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 6.7 2009: 5.3.
The Group is not subject to externally-imposed capital requirements but, as is common for most companies, the level of debt that can be raised is restricted by the Companys Articles of Association.
Net debt is limited to the greater of 5.0 billion and a gearing ratio of three times adjusted capital and reserves.
This restriction can be amended or removed by the shareholders of the Company passing a special resolution.
Based on adjusted capital and reserves as at 31 December 2010 of 5.8 billion, the limit for net debt was 17.4 billion.
The Group funds its debt principally through issuing bonds, denominated in pounds sterling, euros and US dollars.
The Group also maintains substantial committed facilities from banks, but generally uses these to provide back up liquidity and does not typically draw on them.
i EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, and exceptional items and certain re-measurements from continuing operations.
Segmental analysis Centricas operating segments are those used internally by management to run the business and make decisions.
Centricas operating segments are based on products and services provided in each geographical area.
The operating segments are also the Groups reportable segments.
The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are: Segment Description Downstream UK: Residential energy supply The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK Residential services Installation, repair and maintenance of domestic central heating, plumbing and drains, gas appliances and kitchen appliances, including the provision of fixed-fee maintenance breakdown service and insurance contracts in the UK Business energy supply The supply of gas and electricity and provision of energy-related services to business customers in and services the UK Upstream UK: Upstream gas and oil Production and processing of gas and oil and the development of new fields to grow reserves Power generation Generation and optimisation of power from gas, nuclear and wind sources Industrial and commercial Management, optimisation and scheduling of wholesale and industrial commodity sales, procurement and tolling contracts Proprietary energy trading Trading in physical and financial energy contracts Storage UK Gas storage in the UK North America: Residential energy supply The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in North America Business energy supply The supply of gas, electricity and energy-related services to business customers in North America Residential and business Installation and maintenance of Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC equipment, water services heaters and the provision of breakdown services in North America Upstream and wholesale Gas production, power generation and procurement and trading activities in the North American energy wholesale energy markets 88 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 88 11 3 11 14:12:03 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 6.
Segmental analysis continued The measure of profit used by the Centrica Executive Committee is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements refer to note 9, before additional depreciation resulting from any fair value uplifts on Strategic Investments refer to notes 2 and 14 and including the results from joint ventures and associates which are included before interest and tax.
All transactions between segments are on an arms length basis.
2010 2009 Year ended 31 December restated ii Gross Less interGross Less intersegment segment Group segment segment Group revenue revenue i revenue revenue revenue i revenue a Revenue m m m m m m Continuing operations: ii Residential energy supply 8,359 4 8,355 7,911 7,911 ii Residential services 1,464 1,464 1,338 1,338 Business energy supply and services 2,907 1 2,906 3,316 3,316 Downstream UK 12,730 5 12,725 12,565 12,565 Upstream gas and oil 1,637 773 864 1,240 689 551 Power generation 1,112 7 1,105 1,317 167 1,150 Industrial and commercial 2,017 423 1,594 1,907 555 1,352 iii Proprietary energy trading 17 15 2 52 11 41 Upstream UK 4,783 1,218 3,565 4,516 1,422 3,094 Storage UK 267 35 232 266 70 196 Residential energy supply 2,502 2,502 2,644 2,644 Business energy supply 2,682 2,682 2,491 2,491 Residential and business services 485 485 406 406 Upstream and wholesale energy 328 96 232 656 89 567 North America 5,997 96 5,901 6,197 89 6,108 23,777 1,354 22,423 23,544 1,581 21,963 Discontinued operations: European Energy note 38 590 590 2,357 2,357 i Inter-segment revenue is subject to year on year fluctuations due to the change in the mix of internal and external energy sales by Upstream UK.
ii To align with management responsibilities, the British Gas Community Energy business has been reallocated from the Residential services segment to Residential energy supply.
The 2009 comparatives have been adjusted accordingly.
iii The external revenue presented for Proprietary energy trading comprises both realised settled and unrealised fair value changes from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Inter-segment revenue arising in Proprietary energy trading represents the recharge of brokerage fees to other Group segments.
The Group operates in the following geographical areas: Revenue Year ended 31 December based on location of customer 2010 2009 i m m Continuing operations: UK 15,811 15,216 USA 3,984 3,946 Canada 1,918 2,162 Germany 514 563 Netherlands 99 23 Norway 58 53 Denmark 24 Trinidad and Tobago 15 22,423 21,963 i Following the acquisition of a number of assets outside of the UK, including Trinidad and Tobago and Wildcat Hills note 37, the Group has reviewed the allocation and presentation of geographic locations of revenue and re-presented the 2009 allocation accordingly.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 89 11 3 11 14:12:04 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 restated i b Operating profit m m Continuing operations: i Residential energy supply 742 598 i Residential services 241 230 Business energy supply and services 233 183 Downstream UK 1,216 1,011 ii Upstream gas and oil 581 444 ii Power generation 226 147 Industrial and commercial 36 93 Proprietary energy trading 27 Upstream UK 771 525 Storage UK 169 168 Residential energy supply 177 94 Business energy supply 88 34 Residential and business services 15 18 Upstream and wholesale energy 46 7 North America 234 153 Adjusted operating profit segment operating profit before exceptional items, certain iii re-measurements and impact of fair value uplifts from Strategic Investments 2,390 1,857 Share of joint ventures associates interest and taxation 78 11 iv Other 5 ii Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment Venture 60 20 ii Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment net of taxation associates British Energy 58 7 2,194 1,814 Exceptional items note 9 283 568 Certain re-measurements included within gross profit note 9 1,177 62 Certain re-measurements of associates energy contracts net of taxation note 9 14 9 Operating profit after exceptional items and certain re-measurements 3,074 1,175 Discontinued operations: v European Energy note 38 5 8 i To align with management responsibilities, the British Gas Community Energy business has been reallocated from the Residential services segment to Residential energy supply.
ii See note 2 and note 14 for explanation of the depreciation on fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on acquiring Strategic Investments.
iii Includes results of equity-accounted interests before interest, taxation, certain re-measurements and depreciation on fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on Strategic Investments.
iv In 2009 Other comprised a 1 million loss relating to Corporate centre costs not recharged to segments and a 4 million loss relating to an inter-segment transaction between a Proprietary trading operation and a non-proprietary energy trading operation.
v Represents loss after taxation and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements attributable to equity holders of the parent.
This is the measure of results of discontinued operations that is reported regularly to the Groups Executive Committee.
indd 90 11 3 11 14:12:04 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 6.
Segmental analysis continued Share of results of joint Amortisation, write-downs and ventures and associates Depreciation and Impairments of impairments of intangibles Year ended 31 December before interest and taxation property, plant and equipment i restated v 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 c Included within adjusted operating profit m m m m m m Continuing operations: ii, v Residential energy supply 6 8 38 54 Residential services 9 12 1 10 Business energy supply and services 2 2 7 7 Downstream UK 17 22 46 71 i, ii Upstream gas and oil 3 487 353 81 16 i, iii, v Power generation 140 28 120 112 1 4 Industrial and commercial 1 10 6 Proprietary energy trading Upstream UK 143 28 607 466 92 26 Storage UK 26 23 Residential energy supply 2 5 6 Business energy supply 1 1 4 3 Residential and business services 2 2 5 2 ii Upstream and wholesale energy 88 71 3 2 North America 91 76 17 13 iv Other 15 12 19 15 143 28 756 599 174 125 Discontinued operations: ii European Energy note 38 2 25 17 i Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is stated before depreciation of fair value uplifts for Strategic Investments.
ii During 2010, impairment charges of 15 million 2009: 35 million were incurred within business performance in the Downstream UK Residential energy supply segment relating to emissions allowances and write-downs of 81 million 2009: 16 million in the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil segment and 2 million 2009: nil in the North America Upstream and wholesale energy segment relating to exploration and evaluation assets, as described in note 16. iii Share of results of joint ventures and associates is before interest, certain re-measurements, depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on Strategic Investments and taxation.
iv Other comprises depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation and write-downs of intangibles on Corporate centre assets which are charged out to other Group segments.
v Gas and power contract positions related to UK customers have been reallocated from the Upstream UK Power generation segment to the Downstream UK Residential energy supply segment see note 6 d. The associated impairments of emissions certificates have been restated.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 91 11 3 11 14:12:04 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Average capital employed Net segment assets liabilities Year ended 31 December 31 December restated ii, iii, vi, vii restated iv 2010 2009 2010 2009 d Assets and liabilities m m m m ii, vi Residential energy supply 27 28 195 187 vi Residential services 225 21 95 42 ii Business energy supply and services 516 445 552 502 Downstream UK 768 438 842 731 iii Upstream gas and oil 2,691 2,355 1,245 499 ii, iii, vii Power generation 3,633 3,629 3,506 1,879 ii, iii Industrial and commercial 128 49 285 iii, iv Proprietary energy trading 119 573 16 68 Upstream UK 6,571 6,557 4,686 2,595 Storage UK 347 359 206 191 iv Residential energy supply 731 790 709 808 iv Business energy supply 441 377 288 277 Residential and business services 400 268 323 270 vii Upstream and wholesale energy 784 638 659 594 North America 2,356 2,073 1,979 1,949 10,042 9,427 7,713 5,466 i Unallocated deferred tax assets 233 723 Derivative financial instruments held for energy procurement including balances held by joint ventures and associates 715 2,076 Treasury derivatives 63 55 i Current tax liabilities 16 81 viii Securities 257 250 v, vii Assets of discontinued operations 87 60 Bank overdrafts and loans 4,036 4,680 Retirement benefit obligations 239 565 viii Corporate centre assets 143 1,142 Non-operating liabilities 4,223 5,172 5,819 4,255 i Segment assets and liabilities include allocated current and deferred tax balances.
ii Restated to align comparatives with the 2010 presentation of gas and power contract positions related to UK customers within Downstream UK.
iii During 2010 Upstream UK changed its allocation process for inter-company funding and operating balances.
The 2009 comparative has been restated to reflect this change.
iv Average capital employed calculation for 2010 has been calculated in line with the latest management reporting of average capital employed.
Average capital employed excludes balances related to margin call debtors and now includes balances related to proprietary energy trading derivatives so the comparatives have been restated.
v Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations are classified as held for sale, as explained in note 38. vi To align with management responsibilities, the British Gas Community Energy business has been reallocated from the Residential services segment to Residential energy supply.
vii To align with average capital employed, net segment assets liabilities have been restated to include assets held for sale.
viii Corporate short-term deposits are considered to be a Corporate centre asset.
The 2009 comparatives have been reallocated accordingly.
Capital employed represents the investment required to operate each of the Groups segments.
Capital employed is used by the Group to calculate the return on capital employed for each of the Groups segments as part of the Groups managing for value concept.
Additional value is created when the return on capital employed exceeds the cost of capital.
Net segment assets of the Group can be reconciled to the Groups capital employed as follows: 2010 2009 restated i m m Net segment assets at 31 December 10,042 9,427 Deduct: Intra-Group balances 26 46 Pre-productive assets 1,659 1,729 i Margin call debtor 161 626 Cash at bank, in transit and in hand excluding certain restricted cash 117 92 Effect of averaging month-end balances 418 1,560 Average capital employed for year ended 31 December 7,713 5,466 i Average capital employed calculation for 2010 has been calculated in line with latest management reporting of average capital employed.
Average capital employed excludes balances related to margin call debtors and now includes balances related to proprietary energy trading derivatives.
indd 92 11 3 11 14:12:05 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 6.
Segmental analysis continued Capital expenditure on Capital expenditure on property, plant and intangible assets other Year ended 31 December equipment note 18 than goodwill note 16 2010 2009 2010 2009 restated i e Capital expenditure m m m m Continuing operations: i Residential energy supply 15 1 256 236 Residential services 6 34 15 6 i Business energy supply and services 1 1 68 59 Downstream UK 22 36 339 301 Upstream gas and oil 383 358 224 50 i Power generation 78 139 19 45 Industrial and commercial 4 4 15 16 Proprietary energy trading Upstream UK 465 501 258 111 Storage UK 33 60 Residential energy supply 2 6 Business energy supply 1 10 6 Residential and business services 2 1 5 Upstream and wholesale energy 20 52 10 2 North America 22 54 27 14 Other 16 3 29 38 Capital expenditure on continuing operations 558 654 653 464 Increase decrease in prepayments related to capital expenditure 18 2 6 Unrealised gains on cash flow hedges transferred from reserves 4 Capitalised borrowing costs 37 34 Decrease increase in trade payables related to capital expenditure 8 28 2 140 Net cash outflow 547 594 661 604 The Group operates in the following geographical areas: Non-current assets 31 December based on location of assets ii 2010 2009 iii m m Continuing operations: UK 8,248 8,236 Canada 1,381 1,126 USA 820 686 Netherlands 839 822 Norway 752 428 Trinidad and Tobago 319 5 12,359 11,303 i Gas and power contract positions related to UK customers have been reallocated from the Upstream UK Power generation segment to the Downstream UK Residential energy supply segment see note 6 d. The associated Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs purchases and emissions certificates purchases have been reallocated and the 2009 comparative restated.
ii Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets.
iii Following the acquisition of a number of assets outside of the UK, including Trinidad and Tobago and Wildcat Hills note 37, the Group has reviewed the allocation and presentation of geographic locations of its non-current assets and re-presented the 2009 allocation accordingly.
Revenue has also been re-presented on the same basis note 6a.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 93 11 3 11 14:12:05 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Costs of continuing operations 2010 2009 Analysis of costs by nature m m Transportation, distribution and metering costs 3,627 3,503 i Commodity costs 11,295 12,036 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 770 590 Employee costs 565 492 Other direct costs relating to the upstream businesses 273 289 Other direct costs relating to the downstream businesses 1,065 753 Total cost of sales before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 17,595 17,663 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 9 1,075 455 Total cost of sales 16,520 18,118 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 224 155 Employee costs 1,068 942 Exploration costs expensed 7 28 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 269 354 Foreign exchange gains losses 1 2 Other costs associated with upstream businesses 137 151 Other costs associated with downstream businesses 937 864 Total operating costs before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2,641 2,496 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 9 181 175 Total operating costs 2,822 2,671 i Includes 167 million relating to the closing out of some out-of-the-money contracts for delivery of gas during 2011 and 2012.
Directors and employees 2010 2009 i a Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 1,345 1,223 Social security costs 115 103 Other pension and retirement benefits costs 134 77 Share scheme costs 48 38 1,642 1,441 Capitalised employee costs 9 7 Employee costs recognised in the Group Income Statement 1,633 1,434 i Details of Directors remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 63 form part of these Financial Statements.
Details of employee share-based payments are given in note 35.
Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note 40.
2010 2009 b Average number of employees during the year Number Number Downstream UK 27,298 26,216 Upstream UK 1,556 1,341 Storage UK 255 224 North America 5,534 5,042 i, ii Other operations 327 1,302 34,970 34,125 UK 28,994 27,674 USA 3,146 2,706 Canada 2,388 2,336 iii Netherlands 260 237 iv Spain 126 134 Norway 30 25 Germany 18 19 ii Rest of World 8 994 34,970 34,125 i Includes 327 employees 2009: 1,302 employees of European businesses which are classified as discontinued operations note 38. ii 2009 number includes average employee numbers of Segebel S. A. from the date of consolidation 20 January 2009 up to the date of disposal 26 November 2009. iii Includes 201 employees 2009: 186 employees of Oxxio B. V. which is classified as a discontinued operation note 38. iv Represents employees of Centrica Energa which is classified as a discontinued operation up to the date of disposal 4 November 2010.
indd 94 11 3 11 14:12:06 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 9.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2010 2009 a Exceptional items for the year ended 31 December m m Continuing operations: Provision for UK onerous gas procurement contract 35 199 Termination of a UK energy sales contract 139 Provision for North American wind power purchase agreements 67 55 Exceptional items from continuing operations included within gross profit 102 393 Impairments: Impairment of UK generation, exploration and production assets i 96 79 Impairment of North American assets 67 70 163 149 ii UK contract re-negotiation and restructuring costs 43 75 iii Profit on disposal of investments 25 49 181 175 Exceptional items from continuing operations included within Group operating profit 283 568 Taxation on exceptional items note 11 118 186 Net exceptional items from continuing operations after taxation 165 382 Discontinued operations: Impairment of Oxxio B. V. goodwill and other assets, provisions and write-offs after taxation 24 Profit on disposal of Segebel S. A. after taxation 297 Total exceptional items after taxation 165 109 2010 2009 b Certain re-measurements for the year ended 31 December m m Continuing operations: Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts: iv Net gains arising on delivery of contracts 1,023 928 v Net gains losses arising on market price movements and new contracts 130 1,097 vi Net gains losses arising on positions in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts 24 28 Reversal of certain re-measurements in relation to the termination of energy sales contracts 135 Net re-measurements from continuing operations included within gross profit 1,177 62 vii Net losses arising on re-measurement of associates energy contracts net of taxation 14 9 Net re-measurements included within Group operating profit 1,163 71 Taxation on certain re-measurements note 11 339 1 Net re-measurements from continuing operations after taxation 824 72 Discontinued operations: Net re-measurements on energy contracts of discontinued operations after taxation note 38 67 107 Total re-measurements after taxation 891 179 i Impairment charges have been recognised on certain UK generation, exploration and production assets as a result of low spark spreads, updated reserve data and changes in infrastructure development expectations.
Of the total impairment, 68 million was recorded against UK power generation assets property, plant and equipment and inventories and 58 million against exploration and production assets, net of write-backs of 30 million.
See note 18. ii Exceptional restructuring charges have been recorded following the termination and migration of a significant supplier contract as a result of the British Gas integration plan.
These have been recorded across the segments within Downstream UK.
iii During the year the Group disposed of investments in certain non-core assets acquired as part of the Venture acquisition in 2009. iv As energy is delivered or consumed from previously contracted positions the related fair value recognised in the opening balance sheet representing the discounted difference between forward energy prices at the opening balance sheet date and the contract price of energy to be delivered is charged or credited to the Income Statement.
v Represents fair value gains losses arising from the change in fair value of future contracted sales and purchase contracts as a result of changes in forward energy prices between reporting dates or date of inception and the reporting date, where later.
vi Comprises movements in fair value arising on proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or storage capacity, on which economic value has been created which is not wholly accounted for under the provisions of IAS 39. vii Includes fair value unwinds relating to the recognition of energy procurement contracts and energy sales contracts at their acquisition-date fair values.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 95 11 3 11 14:12:06 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Net interest 2010 2009 Interest Interest Interest Interest expense income Total expense income Total m m m m m m Continuing operations: Cost of servicing net debt Interest income 30 30 48 48 i Interest expense on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 284 284 253 253 Interest expense on finance leases 21 21 22 22 305 30 275 275 48 227 Losses gains on revaluation Losses gains on fair value hedges 47 47 41 43 2 i, ii Fair value losses gains on other derivatives 121 9 112 52 175 123 Fair value gains on other securities measured at fair value 10 10 3 3 Net foreign exchange translation of monetary iii assets and liabilities 85 85 128 128 168 151 17 221 221 Other interest Notional interest arising on discounted items 43 30 13 24 29 5 Interest on cash collateral balances 1 1 4 4 Interest on supplier early payment arrangements 2 2 5 5 43 33 10 24 38 14 516 214 302 520 307 213 iv Capitalised borrowing costs 37 37 34 34 Interest expense income 479 214 265 486 307 179 i On 6 December Centrica reduced its outstanding bond debt principal by 151 million and 353 million, and on 23 December by a further 30 million.
The cost of repaying this debt before maturity was 60 million.
As part of the same debt reduction and as a result of consequent changes in its currency hedging position, Centrica also cancelled certain outstanding bond-related derivative contracts for a net gain of 9 million.
ii Primarily reflects changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure associated with inter-company loans denominated in foreign currencies.
iii Primarily reflects foreign exchange gains losses on inter-company loans denominated in foreign currencies.
iv Borrowing costs have been capitalised using an average rate of 4.78% 2009: 5.37%.
Taxation 2010 2009 Exceptional items Exceptional items Business and certain Results for Business and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year a Analysis of tax charge for the year m m m m m m The tax charge comprises: Current tax UK corporation tax 464 23 441 333 62 271 UK petroleum revenue tax 223 223 112 112 Foreign tax 15 6 21 30 4 26 Adjustments in respect of prior years 171 171 135 4 139 Total current tax 531 17 514 340 70 270 Deferred tax Current year 81 235 316 147 113 34 UK petroleum revenue tax 7 7 25 25 Foreign deferred tax 39 7 32 11 9 20 i Change in tax rates 15 1 14 Adjustments in respect of prior years 79 9 88 80 7 87 Total deferred tax 177 238 415 191 115 76 ii Total tax on profit from continuing operations 708 221 929 531 185 346 i The effect of the enacted decrease of 1% to the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 1 April 2011 on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2010 was a credit of 14 million.
ii Total tax on profit from continuing operations excludes taxation on the Groups share of profits in joint ventures and associates.
Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in notes 31 and 32.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit from ordinary activities is the standard rate for UK corporation tax, which was 28% for 2010 2009: 28%, with the exception of upstream profits, which were taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2009: 30% plus a supplementary charge at 20% 2009: 20%.
Certain upstream assets also bear petroleum revenue tax at 50% 2009: 50%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.
indd 96 11 3 11 14:12:06 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 11.
Taxation continued During June 2010 the UK government announced its intention to propose that Parliament reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 24% by 1 April 2014.
The reduction in the corporation tax rate is being phased in over the period to April 2014.
At 31 December 2010 the first reduction in the tax rate had been enacted by Parliament and the UK corporation tax rate will be 27% from 1 April 2011.
No changes have been made to the rates applicable to UK gas and oil production activities.
The current and deferred tax charges, assets and liabilities included within these Financial Statements have been based on the enacted UK corporation tax rates.
The effect of the additional proposed reduction in the UK corporation tax rate by 2014 would be to decrease the net deferred tax liability by 26 million.
b Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows: 2010 2009 Exceptional items Exceptional items Business and certain Results for Business and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year m m m m m m Profit from continuing operations before tax 1,929 880 2,809 1,635 639 996 Less: share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 7 14 7 10 9 1 Group profit from continuing operations before tax 1,922 894 2,816 1,625 630 995 Tax on profit from continuing operations at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2009: 28% 538 250 788 455 176 279 Effects of: Net expenses not deductible for tax purposes 42 15 27 32 9 23 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets 8 1 7 3 3 UK petroleum revenue tax rates 152 152 60 60 Overseas tax rates 2 4 6 1 8 7 Additional charges applicable to upstream profits 73 27 46 37 11 26 Changes to tax rates 15 1 14 Adjustments in respect of prior years 92 9 83 55 3 52 Taxation on profit from continuing operations 708 221 929 531 185 346 c Factors that may affect future tax charges Production of gas and oil within the UK continental shelf is subject to several taxes: corporation tax at 30% 2009: 30% on profits of gas and oil production: a supplementary charge at 20% 2009: 20% on profits of gas and oil production adjusted for financing costs and petroleum revenue tax PRT at 50% 2009: 50% on income generated from certain gas and oil production net of certain costs.
PRT is a deductible expense for the purposes of corporation tax and the supplementary charge.
The effective rate of tax suffered on profits of UK gas production therefore falls between 50% and 75%.
To the extent that the Groups profits are earned from UK gas and oil production, its effective tax rate will remain above the current UK statutory rate of 28% 2009: 28%.
Income earned in North America and other territories outside the UK is generally subject to higher effective rates of tax than the current UK statutory rate.
In the medium term, the Groups effective tax rate is expected to remain above the UK statutory rate.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 97 11 3 11 14:12:07 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
Dividends 2010 2009 m m Prior year final dividend of 9.14 pence 2009: 8.73 pence per ordinary share 470 447 Interim dividend of 3.84 pence 2009: 3.66 pence per ordinary share 198 188 668 635 The prior year final dividend was paid on 16 June 2010 2009: 10 June.
The interim dividend was paid on 17 November 2010 2009: 11 November.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 10.46 pence per ordinary share totalling 539 million for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2011 and, subject to approval, will be paid on 15 June 2011 to those shareholders registered on 3 May 2011.
Auditors remuneration 2010 2009 restated i m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and Group consolidation 3.6 4.2 The auditing of other accounts within the Group pursuant to legislation including that of countries and territories outside the UK 1.5 1.9 Total fees related to audit of parent and subsidiary entities 5.1 6.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: ii Other services pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.7 Services related to taxation 0.1 0.1 Services related to information technology 0.1 0.1 Services related to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 1.2 0.3 All other services 1.6 1.5 8.6 8.8 Fees in respect of pension schemes: Audit 0.1 0.1 i The Group has reanalysed its total audit fees and considers that fees in respect of the IFRS audit of the North American business should be included within the Group consolidation audit fee.
The 2009 fees have been reanalysed accordingly.
ii Includes fees in respect of review performed on the Interim Financial Statements.
It is the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects.
Appointments are made taking into account factors including expertise, experience and cost.
In addition, the Board has approved a detailed policy defining the types of work for which the auditors can tender and the approvals required.
In the past, the auditors have been engaged on assignments in addition to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly important, including due diligence reporting and reporting accountant services on acquisitions.
indd 98 11 3 11 14:12:07 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 14.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of 1,935 million 2009: 844 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 5,146 million 2009: 5,121 million.
The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements, exceptional items and the impact of Strategic Investments, assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group, as explained in note 2.
The reconciliation of basic to adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share is as follows: 2010 2009 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary a Continuing and discontinued operations m share m share Earnings basic 1,935 37.6 844 16.5 Net exceptional items after taxation notes 2 and 9 165 3.2 109 2.1 i Certain re-measurement gains losses after taxation notes 2 and 9 891 17.3 141 2.8 Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments, after taxation 88 1.7 17 0.3 Earnings adjusted basic 1,297 25.2 1,111 21.7 Earnings diluted 1,935 37.3 844 16.4 Earnings adjusted diluted 1,297 25.0 1,111 21.6 i Excludes non-controlling interests of nil 2009: 38 million.
Venture The Group acquired the Venture Group during 2009.
As explained in note 2, the depreciation relating to fair value uplifts relating to the acquired property, plant and equipment and related taxation is excluded in arriving at adjusted earnings for the year, which amounted to 60 million 2009: 20 million depreciation and a taxation credit of 30 million 2009: 10 million in the period.
British Energy The Group acquired a 20% interest in British Energy during 2009 and accounts for its interest as an investment in associate as set out in note 19.
As explained in note 2, the impact of depreciation arising on fair value uplifts attributed to the nuclear power stations and related taxation included within the Groups share of the post-taxation results of the associate is excluded in arriving at adjusted earnings for the period, which amounted to 58 million 2009: 7 million net of taxation.
2010 2009 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary b Continuing operations m share m share Earnings basic 1,873 36.4 648 12.7 Net exceptional items after taxation notes 2 and 9 165 3.2 382 7.5 Certain re-measurement gains losses after taxation notes 2 and 9 824 16.0 72 1.4 Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments, after taxation 88 1.7 17 0.3 Earnings adjusted basic 1,302 25.3 1,119 21.9 Earnings diluted 1,873 36.1 648 12.6 Earnings adjusted diluted 1,302 25.1 1,119 21.8 2010 2009 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary c Discontinued operations m share m share Earnings basic 62 1.2 196 3.8 Earnings diluted 62 1.2 196 3.8 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 99 11 3 11 14:12:07 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14.
Earnings per ordinary share continued Certain re-measurements notes 2 and 9 included within operating profit and discontinued operations comprise re-measurements arising on energy procurement activities and re-measurements of proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts.
All other re-measurements are included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
In addition to basic and adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported earnings for either 2010 or 2009, however the weighted average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted for potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
2010 2009 Million Million d Weighted average number of shares shares shares Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share 5,146 5,121 Dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes 45 24 Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share 5,191 5,145 15.
Goodwill 2010 2009 m m Cost 1 January 2,094 1,559 Acquisitions note 37 169 916 Adjustments to provisional fair values of acquisitions completed in previous year note 37 50 Disposals 3 Transfer to assets held for sale 367 Exchange adjustments 65 11 31 December 2,378 2,094 Aggregate impairment 1 January 6 49 Impairments note 17 2 5 Transfer to assets held for sale 43 Exchange adjustments 5 31 December 8 6 Net book value at 31 December 2,370 2,088 2010 2009 Analysis of goodwill at 31 December by acquisition m m Direct Energy 424 389 Energy America 29 28 Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 Enbridge Services 100 91 CPL WTU 237 228 ATCO 59 54 Residential Services Group 84 81 Strategic Energy 98 94 Clockwork 84 Dyno-Rod 17 17 Newfield 57 57 Caythorpe 33 33 Heimdal 168 165 Venture 704 654 Trinidad and Tobago 70 Other 73 64 2,370 2,088 100 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 100 11 3 11 14:12:08 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 16.
Other intangible assets Emissions allowances and renewable Exploration and Application obligation Customer evaluation software iii certificates Brands i relationships Consents expenditure Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2010 633 188 59 80 12 193 37 1,202 Additions acquired from a third party 166 242 225 633 Additions internally generated 11 11 Acquisitions note 37 4 9 16 42 18 89 Disposals 31 1 6 38 Surrenders 245 245 Write-downs recognised in Income Statement 83 83 Transfer from assets held for sale 2 1 3 Exchange adjustments 11 1 5 17 31 December 2010 796 186 68 96 12 376 55 1,589 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2010 352 37 45 34 468 Amortisation 64 7 71 ii Impairments recognised in Income Statement 4 15 1 20 Disposals 29 1 30 Surrenders 36 36 Exchange adjustments 10 2 12 31 December 2010 401 16 1 53 34 505 Net book value at 31 December 2010 395 170 67 43 12 376 21 1,084 Emissions allowances and renewable Exploration and Application obligation Customer evaluation software iii certificates Brands i relationships Consents expenditure Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2009 521 193 59 108 29 97 46 1,053 Additions acquired from a third party 111 278 5 46 2 442 Additions internally generated 29 1 1 31 Acquisitions 15 8 15 202 100 263 603 Disposal of subsidiaries 17 17 Transfer to assets held for sale 43 5 15 218 260 541 Surrenders 286 286 Write-downs recognised in Income Statement 55 55 Exchange adjustments 1 17 4 14 28 31 December 2009 633 188 59 80 12 193 37 1,202 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2009 278 31 37 2 34 382 Amortisation 70 10 10 90 ii Impairments recognised in Income Statement 21 35 20 76 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 2 Surrenders 29 29 Transfer to assets held for sale 18 18 10 46 Exchange adjustments 1 4 3 31 December 2009 352 37 45 34 468 Net book value at 31 December 2009 281 151 59 35 12 193 3 734 i Brands include 57 million 2009: 57 million associated with the Dyno-Rod brand, acquired on the acquisition of the Dyno group of companies during 2004.
The 2010 brands additions relate to Mr Sparky and Benjamin Franklin, acquired as part of the Clockwork business combination note 37.
Management has ascribed the brands an indefinite useful life because there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which these brands are expected to generate net cash inflows.
In reaching this determination, management has reviewed potential threats from competition, the risks of technological obsolescence and the expected usage of the brand by management.
ii A 15 million 2009: 35 million impairment of emissions allowances was recognised within cost of sales, to reflect a reduction in fair value less costs to sell as a result of a decrease in market prices, that was offset by a reduction in the obligation related to emissions allowances of 15 million 2009: 35 million.
iii Application software includes assets under construction with a cost of 221 million 2009: 113 million.
During the year a review of asset classifications identified a number of assets more appropriately classified as under construction, as a result 2009 software assets under construction have increased by 73 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 101 11 3 11 14:12:08 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives a Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to cash-generating units Goodwill acquired through business combinations and indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated for impairment testing purposes to individual or groups of cash-generating units each representing the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset is monitored for internal management purposes as follows: 2010 2009 Carrying Carrying amount of amount of Carrying indefinite-lived Carrying indefinite-lived Principal acquisitions to which amount of intangible amount of intangible goodwill and intangibles with indefinite goodwill asset Total goodwill asset Total Cash-generating unit useful lives relates m m m m m m Downstream UK Business energy supply and services Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 133 133 Downstream UK Residential services Dyno-Rod Dyno-Rod 17 57 74 17 57 74 Upstream UK Upstream gas Newfield Heimdal Venture i and oil Trinidad and Tobago 999 999 876 876 North America Residential ii energy supply Direct Energy ATCO CPL WTU 643 643 602 602 North America Business Direct Energy ATCO Strategic energy supply Energy 203 203 191 191 North America Residential Enbridge Services Residential ii and business services Services Group Clockwork 286 9 295 192 192 iii Other Various 89 1 90 77 77 2,370 67 2,437 2,088 57 2,145 i Goodwill associated with the Trinidad and Tobago acquisition see note 37 is still being assessed as to which group of cash-generating units will benefit from the synergies of the combination.
A conclusion will be reached on this issue before the end of the first year after the acquisition date 5 August 2011. ii Carrying amount of goodwill also contains goodwill from other Direct Energy acquisitions which are not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the cash-generating unit.
iii Goodwill balances allocated across multiple cash-generating units.
The amount of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit is not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the Group.
Included in this amount is a 2 million impairment of goodwill attributable to Quintana Mineral Canada Investments Corporation North America Upstream and wholesale energy.
b Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined Value in use calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for all of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset balances noted above, with the exception of the impairment test for the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil cash-generating unit, where fair value less costs to sell has been used as the basis for determining recoverable amount.
i Value in use The value in use calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year business plans.
The Groups business plans are based on past experience, and adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, key risks, the implementation of strategic objectives and changes in commodity prices, as appropriate.
Commodity prices used in the planning process are based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates.
The extent to which the commodity prices used in the business plans are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
Note 29 provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group operates.
Cash flows beyond the three-year plan period have been extrapolated using growth rates in line with historic long-term growth rates in the market where the cash-generating unit operates.
Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate specific to each cash-generating unit to determine the cash-generating units value in use, which is then deemed to be its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is compared to the carrying value of each cash-generating units net assets to determine whether the carrying values of any of the Groups goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset balances are greater than their corresponding recoverable amounts.
ii Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell is used as the basis for determining the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil.
This methodology is deemed to be more appropriate as it is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil as a whole.
This is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate the economic value of the underlying assets.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the gas production and development assets within Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil, net of associated selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants would use in estimating fair value.
Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field within Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil, taking into account forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period.
Where forward market prices are not available, prices are determined based on internal model inputs.
indd 102 11 3 11 14:12:08 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 17.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, production costs, the contractual duration of the licence area and the selling price of the gas and liquids produced.
As each field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the post-tax cash flows for each field are computed using individual economic models and key assumptions as determined by management.
Post-tax cash flows used in the fair value less costs to sell calculation for the first three years are based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year business plans and, thereafter, are based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts.
Where necessary, the business plan and long-term forecasts are updated in the economic models to reflect the latest view of each field as at the balance sheet date.
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 8.5% to determine the fair value less costs to sell of Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil.
Fair value less costs to sell is compared to the carrying value of the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil cash-generating unit to determine whether goodwill is impaired.
The discount rate used in the fair value less costs to sell calculation is determined in the same manner as the discount rates used in the value in use calculations described below, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate that is not required for the fair value less costs to sell calculation.
c Key rates used in value in use calculations i Growth rate to perpetuity Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and long-term growth rate forecasts published by external analysts.
ii Discount rates Discount rates reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and are based on the estimated cost of capital of each cash-generating unit.
Additionally, risks specific to the cash flows of the cash-generating units are reflected within cash flow forecasts.
Each cash-generating units weighted average cost of capital is then adjusted to reflect the impact of tax in order to calculate an equivalent pre-tax discount rate.
Long-term growth rates used in the value in use calculations for each of the Groups cash-generating units are provided in the table below together with pre-tax discount rates.
Downstream UK North America North America North America Business energy Downstream UK Residential Business Residential and supply and services Residential services energy supply energy supply business services Growth rate to perpetuity 1.9% 1.9% 2.0% 2.0% 1.9% Pre-tax discount rate 7.6% 7.6% 8.1% 8.1% 8.1% iii Inflation rates Inflation rates used in the three-year business plan were based on a blend of a number of publicly available inflation forecasts available in the UK, Canada and the US.
Inflation rates used for the value in use calculations were as follows: UK: 1.9%, Canada: 2.0% and the US: 2.0%.
d Key assumptions used and summary of results i Downstream UK Business energy supply and services Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on the contractual terms for customers on existing contracts and gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to approval of the business plan for new and renewal customers, adjusted to reflect current market conditions and transportation cost inflation.
Revenues: based on the average market share achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity and recent customer acquisitions, with prices based on forward market curves for both gas and electricity.
Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations, with updated provisions for credit losses experienced historically to reflect the current UK economic environment.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Downstream UK Business energy supply and services cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
Reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions listed above would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill to be equal to or less than the carrying amount.
ii Downstream UK Residential services Dyno-Rod Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on gross margins achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan.
Revenues: based on revenue levels achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan adjusted for the impact of increased marketing spend and the targeting of key accounts with individual sales staff, with a slight reduction in growth rates to reflect the current economic environment in the UK.
Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Downstream UK Residential services Dyno-Rod cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
Reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions listed above would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset to be equal to or less than their carrying amounts.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 103 11 3 11 14:12:08 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued iii Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil Key assumptions Fair value less costs to sell amounts are determined with reference to forecast cash inflows and outflows generated by Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil assets, net of associated selling costs.
Cash inflows and outflows are estimated as follows: Cash inflows: based on forward market prices for gas and oil for the active period of the market and internal model inputs thereafter, with reserve volumes and production profiles based on internal management or operator estimates.
Cash outflows: based on forecast capital and operating expenditure and the estimated future costs of abandonment.
Taxation: based on tax rates expected to be in effect at the point of the forecast cash flow.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
iv North America Residential energy supply Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on contractual terms for customers on existing contracts and gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan for new and renewal customers, adjusted to reflect competitor data, where available.
Where applicable, regulated gross margin percentages are based on the gross margin percentages included in regulatory applications submitted to the Alberta Utilities Commission in Canada.
Revenues: based on average market share by individual market sector achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for expectations of growth or decline based on individual jurisdictions to reflect regulatory or competitive differences, including customer propensity to switch, and contractual prices, with non-contractual prices based on forward market gas and power curves in Canada and the US.
Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations, with slight decreases in costs to reflect planned business process efficiencies and experience of costs required to support customer acquisition, renewal, retention and other servicing activities.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the North America Residential energy supply cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
v North America Business energy supply Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on contractual terms for gross margin under contract and historical experience for planned renewals and new sales.
Unit margins were planned to achieve an acceptable return on risk adjusted capital.
Revenues: based on historical growth trends and planned sales activities by individual market sector.
Prices are based on forward market curves for gas and electricity in Canada and the US.
Operating costs: based on historical trends adjusted to reflect expected cost optimisations, as well as projection of headcount in line with activity.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the North America Business energy supply cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
vi North America Residential and business services Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan, adjusted to reflect the current economic conditions and weak condition of the North American housing market.
Revenues: based on historical growth trends by individual market sector, adjusted for new product offerings and continued penetration into new markets.
Operating costs: based on projected headcount and inflationary increases.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the North America Residential and business services cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
indd 104 11 3 11 14:12:09 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 18.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production i ii, iii ii, iii, iv ii, iii, iv Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2010 23 389 2,144 8,649 11,205 Additions 2 27 87 401 517 Capitalised borrowing costs note 10 37 37 Acquisitions note 37 15 458 464 v Capitalisation of unwind of fair value adjustment 5 5 Adjustment to fair value of prior year acquisitions note 37 61 61 Disposals 67 14 13 94 Transfer from inventory 14 14 Transfer from assets held for sale 4 4 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability note 28 1 261 262 Exchange adjustments 11 11 111 133 31 December 2010 26 369 2,229 9,852 12,476 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2010 11 203 545 4,387 5,146 Charge for the year 1 34 143 638 816 Impairments 64 93 157 Disposals 66 11 11 88 Exchange adjustments 7 2 38 47 31 December 2010 12 178 743 5,145 6,078 Net book value at 31 December 2010 14 191 1,486 4,707 6,398 Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production i ii, iii ii, iii ii, iii, iv, v Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2009 22 424 2,483 6,234 9,163 Additions 60 5 316 469 850 Capitalised borrowing costs note 10 34 34 Acquisitions 13 14 903 1,796 2,726 v Capitalisation of unwind of fair value adjustment 18 18 Disposals 5 9 4 18 Reclassification as joint venture 370 370 Transfer to assets held for sale 71 47 1,094 1,212 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability 6 74 68 Exchange adjustments 1 2 79 64 18 31 December 2009 23 389 2,144 8,649 11,205 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2009 10 167 434 3,863 4,474 Charge for the year 2 43 144 455 644 Impairments 2 35 52 89 Disposals 5 9 4 18 Reclassification as joint venture 27 27 Transfer to assets held for sale 1 7 24 32 Exchange adjustments 3 8 21 16 31 December 2009 11 203 545 4,387 5,146 Net book value at 31 December 2009 12 186 1,599 4,262 6,059 During 2010, impairment charges have been recorded as follows: all within exceptional items note 9 : Upstream UK Power generation: 64 million charge as a result of low spark spreads.
The recoverable amount has been determined using value in use calculations, with future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 7.6% 2009: 7.6%.
Cash inflows are based on forward market prices for power for the active period of the market and internal models thereafter, with production profiles based on the best economic running decision.
Cash outflows are based on planned operating and capital expenditure.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 105 11 3 11 14:12:09 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Property, plant and equipment continued Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil: 28 million charge as a result of updated reserves data and new infrastructure expectations.
The charge is net of write backs of previous impairments of 30 million.
The recoverable amount has been determined using fair value less cost to sell.
Note 17 provides more detail on the general approach to impairment calculations and provides the assumptions used to assess Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil for impairment.
North America Upstream and wholesale energy: 65 million charge as a result of declining commodity prices and changing market conditions.
The recoverable amount has been determined using fair value less cost to sell, based on evidence from recent acquisition transactions for similar assets in the local oil and gas market, net of estimated selling costs.
2010 2009 i The net book value of land and buildings comprises the following: m m Freeholds 8 6 Long leaseholds 1 1 Short leaseholds 5 5 14 12 2010 2009 restated ii Assets in the course of construction are included within the following categories of property, plant and equipment: m m Plant, equipment and vehicles 75 95 Power generation 30 310 Gas storage and production 894 762 999 1,167 During the year a review of asset classifications identified a number of assets more appropriately classified as under construction.
As a result, 2009 assets under construction have increased by 35 million.
iii Assets held under finance leases included in totals above: 2010 2009 Plant, Gas Plant, Gas equipment Power storage and equipment Power storage and and vehicles generation production Total and vehicles generation production Total m m m m m m m m Cost at 1 January 2 469 415 886 469 415 884 Additions 2 2 Cost at 31 December 2 469 415 886 2 469 415 886 Aggregate depreciation at 1 January 1 146 365 512 118 360 478 Charge for the year 27 10 37 1 28 5 34 Aggregate depreciation at 31 December 1 173 375 549 1 146 365 512 Net book value at 31 December 1 296 40 337 1 323 50 374 iv The net book value of decommissioning costs included within power generation and gas storage and production assets was 804 million 2009: 565 million.
v Relates to the consumption of a rig contract which was out-of-the-money on acquisition.
As the contract is utilised, the fair value is added to the cost of the associated fixed assets.
The net book value of assets to which title was restricted at 31 December 2010 was 337 million 2009: 374 million, of which 296 million 2009: 323 million relate to the Spalding power station finance lease asset.
The value of assets pledged as security for liabilities as at 31 December 2010 was 300 million 2009: 157 million.
Interests in joint ventures and associates 2010 2009 Investments in Investments in joint ventures Shareholder joint ventures Shareholder and associates i loans Total and associates loans Total a Interest in joint ventures and associates m m m m m m 1 January 2,356 66 2,422 286 44 330 i Additions 66 124 190 2,303 39 2,342 Reclassification as a subsidiary 216 216 Decrease in shareholder loans 26 26 17 17 Impairment of interest in joint venture 4 4 Disposals of investments 1 1 Share of losses profits for the year 7 7 1 1 Share of reserve movements 15 15 Dividends 83 83 Exchange adjustments 17 17 31 December 2,343 164 2,507 2,356 66 2,422 i Additions include the reclassification of interests in Lincs Wind Farms Limited note 38 and the acquisition of Alertme.
indd 106 11 3 11 14:12:09 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 19.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued b Share of joint ventures and associates assets and liabilities The Groups share of joint ventures and associates gross assets and gross liabilities at 31 December 2010 principally comprised of its interests in Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited, Barrow Offshore Wind Limited, GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited, Lincs Wind Farm Limited, Lake Acquisitions Limited British Energy and NNB Holding Company Limited.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited, Barrow Offshore Wind Limited, GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited, Lincs Wind Farm Limited, Lake Acquisitions Limited British Energy and NNB Holding Company Limited are included within the Upstream UK Power generation segment.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of Secure Electrans Limited and Alertme.
com Limited are included within the Downstream UK Residential energy supply segment.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of Bacton Storage Company Limited are included within the Storage UK segment.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited and Ten Degrees North Energy Limited are included within the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil segment.
2010 2009 Joint ventures Associates Braes of Doune Barrow GLID Lake Acquisitions Wind Farm Scotland Offshore Wind Farms Lincs Wind Limited NNB Holding Limited Wind Limited TopCo Limited i Farm Limited British Energy Company Limited Other ii Total Total m m m m m m m m m Share of non-current assets 34 59 170 136 3,639 72 59 4,169 4,078 Share of current assets 3 7 28 21 592 34 13 698 702 37 66 198 157 4,231 106 72 4,867 4,780 Share of current liabilities 5 2 37 39 166 21 270 243 Share of non-current liabilities 15 15 178 112 1,909 21 2,250 2,181 20 17 215 151 2,075 21 21 2,520 2,424 Restricted interest on iii shareholder loan 4 4 Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates 17 49 17 2 2,156 85 51 2,343 2,356 Shareholder loans 15 22 112 15 164 66 Interests in joint ventures and associates 32 49 5 114 2,156 85 66 2,507 2,422 Net debt cash included in share of net assets 13 4 171 97 57 33 18 205 237 i As part of a finance arrangement entered into by GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited, the Groups shares in GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited are pledged to a third party.
The pledge will only come into force should GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited default on any of its obligations under the finance arrangement.
ii Other includes joint ventures of North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited, Bacton Storage Company Limited and Secure Electrans Limited and associates of Ten Degrees North Energy Limited and Alertme.
iii The Group restricts the amount of interest receivable on the shareholder loan from Lincs Wind Farm Limited to 50% of the interest capitalised by the joint venture.
c Share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates 2010 2009 Joint ventures Associates Braes of Doune Barrow GLID Lake Acquisitions Wind Farm Scotland Offshore Wind Farms Lincs Wind Limited NNB Holding Limited Wind Limited TopCo Limited Farm Limited British Energy i Company Limited Other ii Total Total m m m m m m m m m Income 6 9 29 421 3 468 76 Expenses excluding certain i re-measurements 2 8 17 2 391 2 422 58 Certain re-measurements 31 31 12 4 1 12 2 1 2 3 15 6 Interest 17 38 55 4 Taxation excluding certain i re-measurements 1 2 15 16 4 Taxation on certain remeasurements 17 17 3 Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and associates 3 1 3 2 7 2 3 7 1 i Includes 97 million 2009: 10 million relating to depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on acquiring the British Energy investments.
The associated tax impact is 39 million credit 2009: 3 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 107 11 3 11 14:12:10 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued British Energy The Group acquired a 20% interest in British Energy for 2,255 million and NNB Holding Company Limited for 32 million on 26 November 2009.
The fair value exercise was completed during the year.
The Groups share of profit arising from its investment in British Energy for the year to 31 December 2010 as set out in the table above includes the effect of unwinding the fair value adjustments.
As explained in note 2 the depreciation, net of taxation, arising on fair value uplifts attributed to the nuclear power stations is reversed in arriving at adjusted profit for the period as shown in the reconciliation table below and as set out in notes 6 and 14. d Reconciliation of share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates to share of adjusted profits losses in joint ventures and associates 2010 2009 Joint ventures Associates Wind Farms Nuclear Other ii Total Total m m m m m Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and associates 1 9 3 7 1 Certain re-measurements net of taxation 14 14 9 i Depreciation British Energy net of taxation 58 58 7 Interest 17 38 55 4 Taxation excluding certain re-measurements and British Energy depreciation 1 24 23 7 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates 15 125 3 143 28 i Relates to depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on acquiring the British Energy investments.
ii Other includes joint ventures of North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited, Bacton Storage Company Limited and Secure Electrons Limited and associates of Ten Degrees North Energy Limited and Alertme.
Inventories 2010 2009 m m Gas in storage and transportation 120 140 Other raw materials and consumables 106 108 Finished goods and goods for resale 118 134 344 382 The Group consumed 1,117 million of inventories 2009: 786 million during the year.
Inventory write-downs of 20 million 2009: 3 million were recognised in gross profit during the year.
16 million of the write-downs in the year relate to Power Station and Gas Production spare parts.
The remainder was recognised in exceptional items as a write-down of spare parts relating to assets impaired in the year.
Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets: Trade receivables 1,995 8 1,711 14 Accrued energy income 1,813 1,876 Other accrued income 202 173 Cash collateral pledged 173 631 Other receivables 307 12 158 11 4,490 20 4,549 25 Less: Provision for credit losses 641 554 3,849 20 3,995 25 Non-financial assets: Prepayments and other receivables 338 77 186 118 4,187 97 4,181 143 108 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 108 11 3 11 14:12:10 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 21.
Trade and other receivables continued Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from residential customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows: 2010 2009 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets by class: Residential customers 2,001 9 1,883 14 Business customers 1,643 11 1,495 11 Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 846 1,171 4,490 20 4,549 25 Less: Provision for credit losses 641 554 3,849 20 3,995 25 Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be fully performing until such time as the payment that is due remains outstanding past the contractual due date.
Contractual due dates range from being due upon receipt to due in 30 days.
An ageing of the carrying value of trade and other receivables that are past due but not considered to be individually impaired by class is as follows: 2010 2009 Treasury, Treasury, trading and trading and energy energy Residential Business procurement Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties customers customers counterparties Days past due m m m m m m Less than 30 days 194 168 3 199 124 119 30-89 days 138 189 1 75 163 Less than 90 days 332 357 4 274 287 119 90-182 days 64 77 1 63 49 2 183-365 days 99 82 1 98 76 2 Greater than 365 days 37 26 1 41 16 1 532 542 7 476 428 124 At 31 December 2010, there were 25 million 2009: 34 million of receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from residential customers and 22 million 2009: 8 million from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties that were considered to be individually impaired.
Receivables from residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a customer discontinues their relationship with the Group.
The provision for credit losses is based on an incurred loss model and is determined by application of expected default and loss factors, determined by historical loss experience and current sampling to the various balances receivable from residential and business customers on a portfolio basis, in addition to provisions taken against individual accounts.
Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
Movements in the provision for credit losses by class are as follows: 2010 2009 Treasury, trading Treasury, trading and energy and energy Residential Business procurement Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties Total customers customers counterparties Total m m m m m m m m 1 January 362 180 12 554 399 131 11 541 Impairment of trade receivables 142 124 1 267 240 116 1 357 Transfer to assets held for sale 24 4 28 Receivables written off 132 53 1 186 247 62 309 Acquisitions 1 1 2 Exchange adjustments 2 1 1 4 6 1 7 31 December 375 253 13 641 362 180 12 554 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 109 11 3 11 14:12:10 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21.
Trade and other receivables continued The impairment charge in trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous years, which are no longer required.
These relate primarily to residential customers in the UK.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held 56 million 2009: 17 million of customer deposits for the purposes of mitigating the credit risk associated with receivables from residential and business customers and 3 million 2009: nil from treasury, trading and energy procurement customers.
Exposure to credit risk associated with receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties is monitored by counterparty credit rating as follows: Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement Carrying value AAA to AA AA to A BBB to BBB BB to BB B or lower Unrated counterparties by credit rating m m m m m m m 2010 846 12 334 175 14 311 2009 1,171 12 703 237 13 12 194 The unrated counterparty receivables are comprised primarily of amounts due from subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses.
Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties are managed in accordance with the Groups counterparty credit policy as described in note 4.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are generally held for the purpose of proprietary energy trading, treasury management or energy procurement.
Derivatives held for the purpose of proprietary energy trading are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Groups results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, with the exception of certain derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts note 2.
Derivative financial instruments held for the purposes of treasury management or energy procurement are also carried at fair value, with changes in the fair value of derivatives relating to treasury management reflected in the results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, and those relating to energy procurement reflected in certain re-measurements.
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Notes 2 and 23 provide further detail on the Groups hedge accounting.
Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss include certain energy contracts that the Group has, at its option, designated at fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39 because the energy contract contains one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows under the contract note 2.
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading: Energy derivatives held for trading under IAS 39 47 31 68 3 Derivative financial instruments held for the purpose of treasury management or energy procurement: Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 Energy derivatives 538 1,022 590 2,134 Interest rate derivatives 3 16 3 5 Foreign exchange derivatives 53 100 45 79 Energy derivative contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss 1 143 177 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships: Energy derivatives 25 86 2 328 Interest rate derivatives 105 69 10 Foreign exchange derivatives 18 5 31 14 Total derivative financial instruments 790 1,403 808 2,750 Included within: Derivative financial instruments current 449 755 492 1,744 Derivative financial instruments non-current 341 648 316 1,006 The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general components: 2010 2009 m m Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity: UK and Europe 24 1,091 North America 451 583 Structured gas purchase contracts 89 34 Structured gas sales contracts 176 135 Other 157 139 Net total 671 1,982 110 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 110 11 3 11 14:12:11 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued 2010 2009 Income Income Statement Equity Statement Equity Net gains losses on derivative financial instruments due to re-measurement m m m m Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading 51 48 Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 1,099 153 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss 36 36 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 39 260 15 43 1,123 260 54 43 Derivative-related credit risk assets Credit risk from derivative transactions is generated by the potential for the counterparty to default on its contractual obligations and is normally a small fraction of the contracts notional amount.
Credit risk from derivatives is measured and managed by counterparty credit rating as follows: Carrying Fair value of derivative financial instruments with value AAA to AA AA to A BBB to BBB BB to BB B or lower Unrated a positive fair value by counterparty credit rating m m m m m m m 2010 790 26 647 42 2 73 2009 808 35 567 44 3 159 To manage derivative-related counterparty credit exposure, the Group employs the use of margining and set-off rights in some agreements.
Under margining agreements, the Group has the right to request that the counterparty pay down or collateralise the current fair value of its derivatives position when the position passes a specified threshold.
Maturity profiles of derivative financial instruments liabilities The following maturity analysis shows the remaining contractual maturities on an undiscounted basis for the Groups derivative financial instruments that are in a loss position at the balance sheet date and will be settled on a net basis: 2010 2009 Energy Interest Energy Interest Derivatives that will be settled on a net basis m m m m Less than one year 415 3 325 1 One to five years 144 2 185 More than five years 14 29 559 15 510 28 Certain of the Groups energy contracts that are accounted for as derivatives are for the physical purchase of energy.
In these cases, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all purchase contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date as follows: 2010 2009 Energy procurement contracts that are carried at fair value m m Less than one year 12,814 15,314 One to five years 15,199 17,865 More than five years 2,184 4,877 30,197 38,056 The Groups foreign exchange derivative contracts will be settled on a gross basis.
In these cases, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all derivative contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date.
In addition to cash outflows on all foreign exchange derivative contracts that are gross settled on an undiscounted basis, the following analysis also provides disclosure of the related cash inflows: 2010 2009 Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis m m m m Less than one year 2,350 2,335 1,925 1,899 One to five years 1,154 1,136 1,444 1,426 More than five years 244 158 232 242 3,748 3,629 3,601 3,567 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 111 11 3 11 14:12:11 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23.
Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Note 2 details the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The fair values of derivative and primary financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges 105 70 5 Cash flow hedges 43 91 32 347 Fair value hedges The Groups fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate, long-term debt due to movements in market interest rates.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and in the fair value of the hedged item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised as income within net interest expense.
Gains or losses arising on fair value hedges at 31 December were as follows: 2010 2009 Gains losses m m On hedging instruments 41 12 On hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 41 14 2 Cash flow hedges The Groups cash flow hedges consist primarily of: physical and financial gas and power purchase contracts used to protect against the variability in future cash flows associated with highly probable forecast purchases of gas and power due to movements in market commodity prices: forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated with non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions: and interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate borrowings due to movements in market interest rates.
Gains and losses are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the Income Statement when the forecast cash flows affect the Income Statement.
Note 31 details movements in the cash flow hedging reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2010, the Group recognised a 2 million loss 2009: 2 million loss due to cash flow hedge ineffectiveness.
Net investment hedges The Groups net investment hedges consist of foreign currency debt issued in the same currency as the net investment, foreign exchange forwards and cross-currency interest rate swaps used to protect against the variability in the pounds sterling value of the Groups net investments in foreign operations due to movements in the relative strength of foreign currencies to pounds sterling.
Gains and losses on the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity and transferred to the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Gains and losses on the ineffective portion of the hedge are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2010, the Group recognised losses of nil due to net investment hedge ineffectiveness 2009: 4 million.
Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 114 121 Short-term deposits 353 1,173 Cash and cash equivalents 467 1,294 Cash and cash equivalents includes 206 million 2009: 64 million held by the Groups insurance subsidiary undertakings that is not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.
Carrying value AAA AA A Cash and cash equivalents by counterparty credit rating m m m m 2010 467 304 59 104 2009 1,294 818 172 304 Credit risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed in accordance with the Groups counterparty credit policy as described in note 4.
indd 112 11 3 11 14:12:12 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 25.
Trade and other payables 2010 2009 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial liabilities: Trade payables 1,063 784 Deferred income 293 485 Capital creditors 169 174 Other payables 368 381 45 Accruals Commodity costs 846 1,032 Transportation, distribution and metering costs 163 146 Operating and other accruals 676 528 1,685 1,706 3,578 3,530 45 Non-financial liabilities: Other payables and accruals 329 29 327 31 Deferred income 152 27 98 6 4,059 56 3,955 82 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities within trade and other payables on an 2010 2009 undiscounted basis m m Less than 90 days 3,214 3,046 90-182 days 160 249 183-365 days 204 235 3,578 3,530 Greater than 365 days 45 3,578 3,575 26.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 113 11 3 11 14:12:12 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings continued 2010 2009 Capital element Minimum lease of lease Minimum lease Capital element of payments payments payments lease payments Future finance lease commitments: m m m m Amounts payable: Within one year 45 25 44 23 Between one and five years 187 125 183 115 After five years 235 202 283 237 467 352 510 375 Less future finance charges 115 135 Present value of lease obligations 352 375 2010 2009 Maturity profile of the Groups borrowings including interest and principal: m m i Within one year 284 326 Between one and five years 2,072 3,080 After five years 4,070 4,038 6,426 7,444 Interest payments 2,390 2,764 4,036 4,680 i Borrowings include amounts repayable on demand of 19 million 2009: 28 million.
Deferred and current corporation tax liabilities and assets The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods: Accelerated tax Retirement Other timing depreciation Deferred Decommissioning Deferred benefit Accelerated tax differences petroleum corporation tax petroleum corporation tax obligation and depreciation including losses Marked-torevenue tax effect thereon revenue tax effect thereon other provisions corporation tax carried forward market Total m m m m m m m m m 1 January 2009 209 105 180 90 30 1,036 193 690 137 Charge credit to income: Continuing operations 28 14 4 2 113 63 92 4 76 Discontinued operations 32 21 11 Charge credit to equity 241 10 12 239 Transfer to assets held for sale 3 3 Acquisition of subsidiary 1,070 120 18 968 Disposal of subsidiaries 383 41 342 Exchange and other adjustments 8 2 25 31 31 December 2009 181 91 176 88 158 1,829 417 611 645 Change to tax rates 3 8 4 1 14 Charge credit to income 18 5 25 13 92 179 184 331 429 Charge credit to equity 2 33 79 48 Acquisition of subsidiaries 55 55 Adjustments to fair value of prior year acquisitions 2 16 4 22 Exchange and other adjustments 7 12 2 15 12 31 December 2010 192 96 203 101 67 1,693 276 215 1,129 114 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 114 11 3 11 14:12:12 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 27.
Deferred and current corporation tax liabilities and assets continued Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax liabilities 1,367 1,179 Deferred tax assets 238 534 1,129 645 The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances before offset: 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax assets crystallising within one year 100 329 Deferred tax assets crystallising after one year 973 1,058 1,073 1,387 Offset against deferred tax liabilities 835 853 Net deferred tax assets 238 534 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising within one year 325 107 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising after one year 1,877 1,925 2,202 2,032 Offset against deferred tax assets 835 853 Net deferred tax liabilities 1,367 1,179 At the balance sheet date the Group had certain deductible temporary differences of 191 million 2009: 148 million available for utilisation against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Substantially all of these assets may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, temporary differences of 87 million 2009: 76 million existed in respect of the Groups overseas investments.
The deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences is estimated to be 3 million 2009: 3 million, which has been provided for.
Current tax assets of 81 million 2009: 69 million include nil 2009: 36 million of recoverable petroleum revenue tax.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Acquisitions Unused and Transferred 1 January and Charged in reversed in from 31 December Current provisions for other 2010 disposals the year the year non-current Utilised 2010 liabilities and charges m m m m m m m i, ii Restructuring costs 56 51 1 8 79 35 iii Decommissioning costs 2 6 6 2 iv Purchase contract loss provision 106 38 1 132 151 124 v Other 31 8 26 2 5 18 34 193 8 117 4 151 254 195 Acquisitions Unused and 1 January and Charged in reversed in Revisions and Transferred to Exchange 31 December Non-current provisions for other liabilities 2010 disposals the year the year additions current adjustments 2010 and charges m m m m m m m m i, ii Restructuring costs 22 5 8 19 iii Decommissioning costs 1,052 55 23 1 262 6 16 1,401 iv Purchase contract loss provision 108 93 132 2 71 vi Renegotiation provisions 27 27 v Other 40 4 6 5 33 1,249 55 125 7 262 151 18 1,551 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 115 11 3 11 14:12:13 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued 2010 2009 Financial and non-financial liabilities within provisions for other liabilities Current Non-current Current Non-current and charges m m m m Financial liabilities: i, ii Restructuring costs 34 17 55 19 vi Renegotiation provisions 27 27 v Other 34 18 31 25 68 62 86 71 Non-financial liabilities: i Restructuring costs 1 2 13 iii Decommissioning costs 2 1,401 1,052 iv Purchase contract loss provision 124 71 106 108 v Other 15 15 127 1,489 107 1,178 195 1,551 193 1,249 Maturity analysis for financial liabilities within provisions for other 2010 2009 liabilities and charges on an undiscounted basis m m Within one year 68 86 Between one and two years 41 7 Between two and five years 14 54 After five years 7 10 130 157 i The brought forward restructuring provisions relate to significant restructuring programmes undertaken to achieve the Groups stated cost reduction targets.
Included within the provision are costs related to surplus properties of 28 million 2009: 39 million estimated with reference to the expected cost to be incurred to the point of lease termination, including costs for dilapidations and sub-letting.
The provisions are expected to be utilised between 2011 and 2022. ii The amounts charged in the year mainly relate to the exceptional UK restructuring costs recognised in 2010, as explained in note 9 and will be substantially utilised in 2011. iii Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives.
The estimate has been based on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
The timing of decommissioning payments is dependent on the lives of the facilities but is anticipated to occur between 2011 and 2055, with the substantial majority of the provision being utilised between 2020 and 2030.
The charge to income includes 25 million of notional interest 2009: 18 million.
iv The purchase contract loss provision relates to a UK onerous gas procurement contract and North American wind farm power purchase agreements, as explained in note 9.
The provision will be utilised between 2011 and 2015. v Other provisions include outstanding litigation for a number of items none of which are individually significant and provision for National Insurance payable in respect of Long Term Incentive Scheme liabilities.
The National Insurance provision was based on a share price of 331.60 pence at 31 December 2010 2009: 281.10 pence and is expected to be utilised between 2011 and 2015. vi In previous years, the Group renegotiated certain long-term take-or-pay contracts which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be in excess of requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
The provision represents the net present cost of estimated payments due to suppliers as consideration for the renegotiations, most of which was settled in 2008, based on the reserves in a group of thirdparty fields.
Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties under no compulsion to act.
The Group has documented internal policies for determining fair value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for credit risk.
The fair values of the Groups financial instruments, together with the carrying amounts included in the Balance Sheet are analysed as follows: 2010 2009 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Financial assets Notes m m m m Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables, net of provisions 21 3,869 3,869 4,020 4,020 Cash and cash equivalents 24 467 467 1,294 1,294 4,336 4,336 5,314 5,314 Financial assets measured at fair value: Derivative financial instruments 22 790 790 808 808 Securities: Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit and loss 164 164 104 104 Available-for-sale financial assets: Debt instruments 65 65 118 118 Equity instruments 28 28 28 28 257 257 250 250 116 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 116 11 3 11 14:12:13 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 29.
Fair value of financial instruments continued 2010 2009 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Financial liabilities Notes m m m m Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Trade and other payables 25 3,578 3,578 3,575 3,575 Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings: Bank overdrafts and loans 26 277 241 447 422 Bonds 26 3,407 3,693 3,608 3,879 Other borrowings 26 250 252 Obligations under finance leases 26 352 364 375 375 Provisions 28 130 130 157 157 7,744 8,006 8,412 8,660 Financial liabilities at fair value: Derivative financial instruments 22 1,403 1,403 2,750 2,750 Securities Securities comprise Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition and available-for-sale financial assets.
The fair values of securities are based on quoted market prices, when available.
If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using observable market data.
23 million of the amounts held as available-for-sale financial assets is ring-fenced within the regulated insurance entity, Centrica Insurance Company Limited, and is not available for use by the rest of the Group 2009: 3 million.
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings The fair values of bonds are based on quoted market prices.
The fair values of bank loans have been determined by discounting cash flows with reference to relevant market rates of interest.
The fair values of overdrafts and commercial paper are assumed to equal their book values due to the short-term nature of these amounts.
The fair values of obligations under finance leases have been determined by discounting contractual cash flows with reference to the Groups cost of borrowing.
Other financial instruments Due to their nature and or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and provisions are estimated to approximate their carrying values.
Derivative financial instruments and energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss The fair values of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives are determined by reference to closing market rates at the Balance Sheet date.
The fair values of energy derivatives are determined using valuation techniques based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates not currently supported by observable market data.
The extent to which fair values of energy derivatives are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
The Group has judged each of the markets in which it operates as active for the purposes of accounting as follows: Active period of markets years Gas Power Coal Emissions Oil UK 2 2 3 2 3 North America 5 Up to 5 n a Up to 5 n a Europe n a Up to 5 n a n a n a The fair values of energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 that settle inside the active period of the market are based on quoted market prices and expected volumes, discounted at an average rate of 1% per annum 2009: 1%.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Europe are based primarily on quoted market prices.
In the UK, however, certain energy contracts extend beyond the active period of the market.
The fair values of energy contracts that extend beyond the active period of the market are determined by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques based on commodity prices derived using assumptions that are based on internal market expectations and expected volumes, discounted using an average discount rate of 3% per annum for 2010.
Where the fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, a day-one gain or loss will arise.
Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available see note 2 for further detail.
The amount that has yet to be recognised in the Income Statement relating to the difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the amount that would have arisen had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: 2010 2009 Net deferred gains losses m m 1 January 86 51 Net gains deferred on new transactions 2 74 Recognised in the Income Statement during the year 21 63 31 December 109 86 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 117 11 3 11 14:12:14 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Fair value of financial instruments continued Fair value hierarchy Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value are classified into one of three categories: Level 1 Fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities, for example exchange-traded commodity contracts valued using close-of-day settlement prices.
The adjusted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
Level 2 Fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be either directly observable inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data, for example over-the-counter energy contracts within the active period valued using broker-quotes or third-party pricing services and foreign exchange or interest rate derivatives valued using quotes corroborated with market data.
Level 3 Fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value, for example energy contracts within the inactive period valued using in-house valuation techniques.
The fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at 31 December was as follows: 2010 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives 492 119 611 46 550 64 660 Interest rate derivatives 108 108 72 72 Foreign exchange derivatives 71 71 2 74 76 Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit and loss 164 164 104 104 Debt instruments 64 1 65 62 56 118 Equity instruments 17 11 28 17 11 28 Total financial assets 245 671 131 1,047 231 752 75 1,058 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives 113 849 320 1,282 198 1,954 490 2,642 Interest rate derivatives 16 16 15 15 Foreign exchange derivatives 105 105 93 93 Total financial liabilities 113 970 320 1,403 198 2,062 490 2,750 There were no significant transfers out of Level 1 into Level 2 and out of Level 2 into Level 1 during 2010 and 2009.
The reconciliation of the Level 3 fair value measurements during the year is as follows: Equity debt Energy Equity debt Energy instruments derivatives 2010 instruments derivatives 2009 m m m m m m Level 3 financial assets 1 January 11 64 75 3 399 402 Total realised and unrealised losses: Gains losses recognised in Income Statement 60 60 247 247 Gains recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 2 2 Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements net 1 37 38 Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 44 44 88 88 Acquisitions 8 8 31 December 12 119 131 11 64 75 Total gains losses for the year for Level 3 financial i assets held at the end of the reporting period 74 74 258 258 i 72 million gains 2009: 258 million losses for the year for Level 3 financial assets held at the end of the reporting year were recognised within certain re-measurements and 2 million gains 2009: nil were recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
The 2009 figures have been restated for comparative purposes.
indd 118 11 3 11 14:12:14 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 29.
Fair value of financial instruments continued 2010 2009 Energy derivatives m m Level 3 financial liabilities 1 January 490 568 Total realised and unrealised losses: Recognised in Income Statement 72 54 Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 9 Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements net 77 Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 165 141 31 December 320 490 Total losses for the year for Level 3 financial liabilities held at the end of the i reporting period 86 112 i 86 million losses 2009: 103 million losses for the year for Level 3 financial liabilities held at the end of the reporting year were recognised within certain re-measurements and nil 2009: 9 million were recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
The impacts of reasonably possible changes to assumed gas, power, coal, emissions and oil prices on the net fair value of the Groups fair value measurements categorised as Level 3 are as follows: 2010 2009 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change change Energy price in variable in variable UK gas p therm 11 10 UK power MWh 5 5 UK coal US$ tonne 21 20 UK emissions tonne 2 3 UK oil US$ bbl 18 19 2010 2009 Increase decrease in fair value m m UK energy prices increase decrease 9 12 17 17 The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing energy contracts in relation to gas, power, emissions, coal and oil prices to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the Balance Sheet date.
The fair value impacts only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39 and are marked-to-market based on valuation models using assumptions that are not currently observable in an active market.
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution, as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of energy contracts changes.
Changes in fair values based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated as the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value will not always be linear.
This can be seen in the results from the above 2010 sensitivity analysis.
Due to the interaction of various contract price floors and ceilings and optionality in purchase sales volumes, both scenarios lead to an increase in the total fair value of the Level 3 assets and liabilities.
Share capital Share capital of the Company 14 Until 10 May 2010, the authorised share capital of the Company was 9,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 2009: 9,000,000,000 14 ordinary shares of 6 81p each and 100,000 cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each 2009: 100,000 shares of 1 each.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 10 May 2010, a Special Resolution was passed to delete all provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association and adopt new Articles of Association in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The passing of the Special Resolution enabled the removal of the requirement to have an authorised share capital and the removal of the reference to preference shares as no such class of share capital was in issue.
Disclosure of authorised share capital is therefore no longer required.
2010 2009 m m Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 14 14 5,154,005,553 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 2009: 5,132,054,073 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 318 317 The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company for the year was as follows: 2010 2009 Number Number 1 January 5,132,054,073 5,107,658,569 i Issued under employee share schemes 21,951,480 24,395,504 31 December 5,154,005,553 5,132,054,073 i Ordinary shares were allotted and issued to satisfy the exercise of share options, share incentive schemes, the Direct Energy Employee Share Purchase Plan and the matching element of the Share Incentive Plan as follows: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 119 11 3 11 14:12:14 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Share capital continued 2010 2009 Number 21,951,480 24,395,504 Nominal value m 1.4 1.5 Consideration m net of issue costs of nil 2009: nil 31 30 The closing price of one Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2010 was 331.60 pence 2009: 281.10 pence.
Centrica employee share ownership trusts purchase Centrica ordinary shares from the open market and receive newly issued shares to satisfy future obligations of certain employee share schemes.
During the year, the trusts purchased 2.5 million shares 2009: 1.9 million, received 4.2 million newly allotted shares 2009: 7.2 million and released 4.1 million shares 2009: 6.8 million shares to employees on vesting.
At 31 December 2010, the trusts held 8.5 million shares 2009: 5.9 million shares at a carrying amount of 22 million 2009: 15 million.
Until such time as the Companys own shares held by these trusts vest unconditionally, the amount paid for those shares, or the value they were issued at, are held as treasury shares and are deducted from shareholders equity.
Accumulated other comprehensive loss income AvailableForeign Actuarial for-sale Cash flow currency gains and revaluation hedging translation losses reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m 1 January 2010 6 244 8 345 587 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 70 1 61 Recycling of foreign exchange on disposal of business 9 1 8 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations note 36 9 9 Net losses on revaluation of available-for-sale securities 4 4 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 10 10 Transferred to income and expense 236 236 Transferred to assets and liabilities 19 19 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates 1 14 15 Taxation on above items 1 79 14 2 68 31 December 2010 11 56 91 343 319 AvailableForeign Actuarial for-sale Cash flow currency gains and revaluation hedging translation losses reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m 1 January 2009 15 219 24 218 40 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 83 83 Recycling of foreign exchange on disposal of business 10 10 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations note 36 804 804 Net gains on revaluation of available-for-sale securities 11 11 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 253 253 Transferred to income and expense 234 234 Transferred to assets and liabilities 4 4 Taxation on above items 2 12 41 241 186 31 December 2009 6 244 8 345 587 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises exchange translation differences on foreign currency net investments, offset by exchange translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Exchange gains of 70 million 2009: losses of 22 million on net investments in overseas undertakings have been offset in reserves against exchange losses of nil 2009: gains of 105 million on foreign currency borrowings and other instruments used for hedging purposes.
Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Note 23 provides further detail on cash flow hedging.
2010 2009 Analysis of transfers from cash flow hedging reserve to Income Statement by line item m m Gross profit 236 235 Net interest income 1 236 234 120 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 120 11 3 11 14:12:15 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 31.
Accumulated other comprehensive income loss continued The maturity analysis of amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve, which includes fair value gains and losses in relation to commodity, interest rate and currency hedges, is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Within one year 38 173 Between one and five years 6 75 After five years 12 4 56 244 The maturity profile reflects the timing of expected transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the Income Statement as and when the hedged item affects the Income Statement which is, for the most part, on delivery of physical volumes for energy contracts and the accrual of interest for debt contracts.
Other equity Share-based Capital Revaluation Treasury payments Merger redemption reserve shares reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m 1 January 2010 26 15 87 467 16 581 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 20 20 Exercise of awards 13 44 31 Value of services provided 48 48 Taxation on above items 20 20 Exchange adjustments 1 2 3 31 December 2010 27 22 113 467 16 601 Share-based Capital Revaluation Treasury payments Merger redemption reserve shares reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m 1 January 2009 10 10 66 467 16 549 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 7 7 Exercise of awards 2 30 28 Value of services provided 38 38 Reclassification as subsidiary 144 144 Disposal of subsidiaries 126 126 Taxation on above items 12 12 Exchange adjustments 2 1 1 31 December 2009 26 15 87 467 16 581 Merger reserve On 17 February 1997, BG plc formerly British Gas plc demerged certain businesses grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited GBGH to form Centrica plc.
Prior to demerger, the companies comprising the Centrica businesses were transferred to GBGH, a subsidiary undertaking of BG plc.
Upon demerger, the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders.
In accordance with sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the shares issued.
On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Companys shares issued and the amount of share capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited to a merger reserve.
Capital redemption reserve In accordance with section 170 1 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled.
Revaluation reserve During 2005, the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Centrica SHB Limited to fair value, following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% stake in the company, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
During 2009, the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Segebel S. A. and producing gas and oil assets located in Alberta, Canada, following the acquisition by the Group of additional interests, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
The subsequent disposal of Segebel S. A. resulted in a transfer of the revaluation gain relating to this investment to retained earnings.
Treasury shares reserve Treasury shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Company held in share-based payment plans to meet future obligations to deliver shares to employees on vesting.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 121 11 3 11 14:12:15 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Other equity continued Share-based payments reserve The share-based payments reserve reflects the obligation to deliver shares to employees under the Groups share schemes in return for services provided.
Non-controlling interests 2010 2009 m m 1 January 63 60 Acquisition of new business 802 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 7 12 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1 Purchase of non-controlling interests 201 Dividends paid 11 Disposal of business 589 i Liquidation of business 70 Exchange adjustments 11 31 December 63 i On 14 May 2010 GF Two Limited formerly Goldfish Holdings Limited and its subsidiary, GF One Limited formerly Goldfish Bank Limited, both non-trading entities were put into liquidation.
Lloyds Banking Group plc held a 30% economic interest in these entities until liquidation.
Non-controlling interests share of profit from operations after taxation can be analysed as follows: 2010 2009 Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Results for Business items and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year m m m m m m Continuing operations 7 7 2 2 Discontinued operations 48 38 10 7 7 50 38 12 34.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement 2010 2009 a Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities m m Continuing operations Group operating profit including share of result of joint ventures and associates 3,074 1,175 Less share of loss profits of joint ventures and associates 7 1 Group operating profit before share of results of joint ventures and associates 3,081 1,174 Add back deduct : Amortisation and write-down of intangible assets 176 209 Depreciation and write-down of property, plant and equipment 973 708 Impairments of joint ventures and associates 4 Profit on sale of businesses 26 54 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 4 Movement in provisions 159 301 Pension service cost 129 74 Pension contributions 441 403 Employee share scheme costs 48 38 i Re-measurement of energy contracts 1,097 135 Unrealised foreign exchange gains on operating cash and cash equivalents 1 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 3,010 2,183 Decrease in inventories 31 35 ii Decrease in trade and other receivables 162 781 ii Increase in trade and other payables 242 83 Cash generated from continuing operations 3,445 3,082 Income taxes paid 412 329 Net petroleum revenue tax paid 128 174 Interest received 5 13 Interest paid 11 3 Payments relating to exceptional charges 223 203 Net cash flow from continuing operating activities 2,676 2,386 122 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 122 11 3 11 14:12:15 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 34.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement continued 2010 2009 m m Discontinued operations Operating profit loss including share of result of joint ventures and associates 67 46 Less share of loss of joint ventures and associates 2 Operating profit loss before share of joint ventures and associates 67 44 Deduct add back: Amortisation and write-down of intangible assets 41 Depreciation and write-down of property, plant and equipment 25 Movement in provisions 4 25 Re-measurement of energy contracts 42 49 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 29 96 Decrease in inventories 7 Increase decrease in receivables 151 337 Increase decrease in payables 136 168 Income taxes paid 6 10 Interest paid 1 1 Net cash flow from discontinued operating activities 7 261 Net cash flow from operating activities 2,683 2,647 i Adds back unrealised losses arising from re-measurement of energy contracts, including those related to proprietary trading activities.
ii Includes net inflow of 466 million of cash collateral in 2010 2009: net outflow of 79 million.
2010 2009 b Net debt m m Current borrowings note 26 77 86 Non-current borrowings note 26 3,959 4,594 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 467 1,294 Securities current 23 74 Securities non-current 234 176 3,312 3,136 2010 2009 c Reconciliation of net increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt m m Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 833 1,569 Cash and cash equivalents of disposal groups classified as held for sale 16 19 817 1,588 Add back deduct : Net purchase of securities 56 128 Cash inflow from additional debt 267 1,887 Cash outflow from payment of capital element of finance leases 23 22 Cash outflow from repayment of other debt 928 872 77 2,453 Revaluation of: Securities 7 14 Loans and other borrowings 40 15 110 2,424 Increase in interest payable on loans and other borrowings 2 25 Acquisitions 477 Disposals 56 298 Exchange adjustments 8 4 Other non-cash movements 1 Movement in net debt 176 2,625 Net debt at 1 January 3,136 511 Net debt at the end of the year 3,312 3,136 d Exploration and evaluation cash flows Included within the 661 million 2009: 604 million purchase of intangible assets in investing activities is 224m 2009: 46 million relating to exploration and evaluation of oil and gas assets.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 123 11 3 11 14:12:16 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement continued North e Relationship between current tax charge and UK America Other 2010 2009 taxes paid m m m m m Current tax charge: Corporation tax 289 28 26 291 158 Petroleum revenue tax 223 223 112 512 28 26 514 270 Taxes paid: Corporation tax 368 44 412 329 Petroleum revenue tax 128 128 174 496 44 540 503 Differences between current tax charged and taxes paid arose principally due to the following factors: UK corporation tax is paid, based on estimated profits, partly during the year and partly in the following year.
Fluctuations in profits from year to year may therefore give rise to divergence between the charge for the current year and taxes paid: and Petroleum revenue tax payments are based on income realised in the preceding period, with subsequent adjustments to reflect actual profits.
Variations in production from period to period may therefore lead to temporary differences between tax charged and tax paid.
Share-based payments Employee share schemes are designed to encourage participants to align their objectives with those of shareholders.
Centrica operates nine employee share schemes.
a Summary of principal share-based payment plans and movements in the number of shares and options outstanding Deferred and Matching Share Scheme DMSS Awards under the DMSS are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
Under normal conditions the grant date of the scheme is the first day of each bonus year.
This is followed by a vesting period of four years, being the bonus year plus a three-year performance period.
The fair value of the award reflects the market value of the shares at the grant date.
The scheme comprises three separate elements: i Deferred shares The scheme requires participants to defer between 20% and 40% of their annual pre-tax bonus into the scheme.
The shares are held in trust over the three-year performance period, during which time they cannot be withdrawn.
An employee who leaves prior to the vesting date will forfeit their right to the shares except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
All shares held in trust will be eligible to receive dividends.
The number of shares deferred is estimated from the participants maximum bonus and the likelihood of bonus payout in the bonus year.
Subsequent revisions are made based on the actual bonus paid in the year.
ii Investment shares The scheme allows participants to elect to invest an additional amount of their annual bonus into the scheme up to a maximum of 50% of their total potential after-tax bonus for the year.
This 50% limit includes the pre-tax amount automatically deferred each year.
The shares may be funded directly from the employee or through a release of the employees Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS shares at the Companys discretion, and thus the shares do not attract an IFRS 2 charge.
iii Matching shares Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional matching shares, which will be released upon the achievement, over a three-year performance period, of three-year Group economic profit performance targets.
Group economic profit is calculated by taking adjusted Group operating profit as defined in note 6 after tax and subtracting a charge for capital employed based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Further information on the operation of the DMSS and related performance conditions can be found on pages 54 to 55.
The likelihood of achieving the performance conditions is taken into account in calculating the number of awards expected to vest.
Estimates are made in year one and revised in subsequent years.
The number of shares originally granted and fair value allocated are estimated on the grant date and then adjusted following the announcement of the actual annual performance bonus and subsequent investment by participants.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations of deferred and matching shares actually made is shown in the table at the bottom of this section.
Details of the fair values of awards granted and related assumptions are included in section c below.
indd 124 11 3 11 14:12:16 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 35.
Share-based payments continued Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Under the ESOS, the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares at the legal date of grant which approximates, or is the same as, the grant date for accounting purposes, and are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
Options granted under the ESOS have all vested and became exercisable in full on the third anniversary of the last date of grant in 2006.
The exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
Performance conditions are non-market based and therefore not included in the fair value calculations.
Early exercise has been taken into account by estimating the expected life of the options.
A reconciliation of option movements is as follows: 2010 2009 Number Weighted average Number Weighted average in thousands exercise price in thousands exercise price Outstanding at start of the year 11,180 2.15 17,986 2.09 Granted Exercised 6,148 2.09 6,242 1.95 Forfeited 20 2.18 564 2.33 Outstanding at end of the year 5,012 2.24 11,180 2.15 Exercisable at end of the year 5,012 2.24 11,180 2.15 For options outstanding at the end of the period, the range of exercise prices and average remaining life was as follows: 2010 2009 Number Average remaining Number Average remaining Range of exercise Weighted average Range of exercise Weighted average of shares contractual life of shares contractual life prices exercise price in thousands years prices exercise price in thousands years 1.30-1.39 1.31 306 2.2 1.301.39 1.31 1,256 3.2 1.90-1.99 1.99 594 3.2 1.901.99 1.99 1,239 4.2 2.00-2.09 2.03 1,562 3.4 2.002.09 2.03 3,298 4.5 2.10-2.19 2.102.19 2.14 823 1.7 2.20-2.29 2.24 61 4.7 2.202.29 2.24 184 5.7 2.50-2.59 2.54 2,489 5.6 2.502.59 2.54 4,380 6.4 2.24 5,012 4.4 2.15 11,180 4.9 For options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 2.98 2009: 2.57.
Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS Under the LTIS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are generally reserved for employees at senior management level.
The number of shares to be released to participants is calculated subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS growth during the three years following the grant date.
Shares are released to participants immediately following the end of the period in which performance is assessed, however release of shares is subject to continued employment within the Group at the date of release except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
The vesting of half of each award is made on the basis of TSR performance and is valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The vesting of the remaining half of awards is dependent on EPS growth.
This is deemed to be a non-market condition under IFRS 2 and therefore the fair value of these awards is considered to be the market value at the grant date.
Further details on the operation of LTIS including related performance conditions are provided on pages 55 and 56.
For shares released during the period, the weighted average share price was 2.98 2009: 2.32.
The number of shares vested at the end of the year was 50,346 2009: 82,632.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is shown in the table at the bottom of this section.
Sharesave Under Sharesave, the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to all UK-based employees of the Group.
To date, the Board has approved the grant of options with a fixed exercise price equal to 80% of the average market price of the shares for the three days prior to invitation which is three to four weeks prior to the grant date.
Employees pay a fixed amount from salary into a savings account each month, and may elect to save over three and or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees have six months in which to exercise their options using the funds saved.
If employees decide not to exercise their options, they may withdraw the funds saved, and the options expire six months after maturity.
Exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
Details of the fair values of awards granted and related assumptions are included in section b below.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 125 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 125 11 3 11 14:12:16 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of movements in allocations is as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted Number average Number Weighted average in thousands exercise price in thousands exercise price Outstanding at start of the year 45,653 2.09 38,186 2.20 Granted 12,195 2.28 25,103 1.94 Exercised 7,060 2.16 8,882 1.98 Forfeited 3,666 2.11 8,376 2.27 Expired 239 2.54 378 2.03 Outstanding at end of the year 46,883 2.12 45,653 2.09 Exercisable at end of the year 11 2.41 16 2.05 For options outstanding at the end of the year, the range of exercise prices and the average remaining life was as follows: 2010 2009 Number Average remaining Number Average remaining Range of Weighted average of shares contractual life Range of Weighted average of shares contractual life exercise prices exercise price in thousands years exercise prices exercise price in thousands years 1.601.69 1.601.69 1.67 3,181 0.3 1.901.99 1.94 21,790 2.3 1.901.99 1.94 23,817 3.3 2.102.19 2.12 2,515 0.4 2.102.19 2.12 2,670 1.4 2.202.29 2.28 20,791 2.3 2.202.29 2.27 10,214 2.3 2.502.59 2.59 1,787 1.4 2.502.59 2.59 5,771 1.1 2.12 46,883 2.2 2.09 45,653 2.5 For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 2.90 2009: 2.36.
Share Award Scheme SAS Under the SAS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to selected employees at middle management levels, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources.
There is no contractual eligibility for SAS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme in two stages half of the award vesting after two years, the other half vesting after three years.
On vesting, additional shares are awarded or a cash payment is made to reflect dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the vesting period.
The fair value is therefore considered to be the market value at the date of grant.
For shares released during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of release was 2.97 2009: 2.31.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Awards under the DBP are generally reserved for a select group of employees.
Under normal conditions the grant date of the plan is the first day of each bonus year.
This is followed by a vesting period of three years, being the bonus year plus a two-year employment period for awards made in 2010, and the bonus year plus a two-year performance period for awards made in 2011.
The plan was first operated in 2010, in respect of the bonus period from the acquisition of the Venture business until the end of the 2009 financial year.
The plan allowed participants to elect to defer up to 100% of their bonus into the plan.
Deferred shares were matched with one and a half matching shares which will vest unconditionally for employees after being held for two years.
From 2011 onwards, the plan will require participants to defer 20% of their annual bonus into the plan as deferred shares and allow participants to elect to invest up to a further 30% of their annual bonus as investment shares.
Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional matching shares, ranging between one for one and two for one shares, dependent on an employees grade.
The vesting of matching shares will be subject to the satisfaction of company performance conditions.
Vesting of deferred awards and all matching awards is subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the plan.
On vesting, additional shares are awarded or a cash payment is made to reflect the dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the vesting period.
A reconciliation of the movement in allocations of deferred and matching shares actually made is shown in the table at the bottom of this section.
Details of the fair values of awards granted under IFRS 2 and related assumptions are included in section c below.
indd 126 11 3 11 14:12:17 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 35.
Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of movements in allocations for the DMSS, LTIS, SAS and DBP schemes is as follows: 2010 2009 Number of shares in thousands DMSS LTIS SAS DBP DMSS LTIS SAS DBP Balance at start of year 11,425 29,968 5,487 6,564 26,497 3,607 Granted 4,394 10,366 3,187 702 5,708 13,111 3,370 Released 2,791 3,438 1,354 6,319 1,191 i Forfeited 344 4,599 332 9 847 3,321 299 Balance at end of year 12,684 32,297 6,988 693 11,425 29,968 5,487 i LTIS forfeitures include 2,291,970 2009: 2,236,299 shares forfeited for non-performance reasons.
b Fair values and associated details of options granted under Sharesave 2010 2009 No.
of options granted in thousands 12,195 25,103 Weighted average fair value at grant date 0.67 0.49 Weighted average share price at grant date 2.97 2.30 Weighted average exercise price 2.28 1.94 i Expected volatility 31.4% 29.4% Contractual option life 4.2 years 4.3 years Expected life 3.9 years 4.3 years Vesting period 3.9 years 4.0 years Expected dividend yield 4.5% 5.0% ii Risk-free interest rate 2.3% 2.4% Expected forfeitures 30% 31% i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
ii The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the expected option life.
c Fair values and associated details of shares granted under the principal schemes 2010 2009 DMSS LTIS SAS DBP DMSS LTIS SAS DBP No.
of equity instruments granted in thousands 4,855 10,366 3,187 1,160 5,032 13,111 3,370 1,750 Weighted average fair value at grant date 3.32 2.42 2.97 3.32 2.81 1.65 2.22 2.81 Expected performance lapses 0% n a n a 0% 0% n a n a n a Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Vesting period 4 years 3 years 2.5 years 3 years 4 years 3 years 2.5 years 3 years i Expected volatility n a 30.4% n a n a n a 31.2% n a n a Expected forfeitures 10% 20% 18% 25% 25% 25% 20% 0% ii Risk-free rate n a 1.8% n a n a n a 2.2% n a n a Average volatility of FTSE 100 n a 27.2% n a n a n a 31.2% n a n a iii Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 n a 48.3% n a n a n a 39.8% n a n a i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
iii The cross-correlation of the FTSE 100 has been obtained from a model which calculates the correlation between Centricas historical share price and each of the remaining FTSE 100 companies over the period commensurate with the performance period of the awards.
d Other share schemes Below is a brief summary of the three other schemes.
These are significantly smaller than the principal share schemes discussed above and therefore no detailed disclosures have been included for these schemes.
Restricted Share Scheme RSS Awards under the RSS are normally reserved for certain selected key employees at senior management levels, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources.
Neither the Executive Directors nor the next tiers of executive management are eligible to participate.
There is no contractual eligibility for RSS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
Allocations are not normally subject to performance conditions and normally vest unconditionally subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme in one or more stages dependent on the individual awards.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 127 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 127 11 3 11 14:12:17 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Share-based payments continued Share Incentive Plan SIP and Direct Energy Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP SIP relates to UK employees and has a three year vesting period.
ESPP relates to North America employees and has a two year vesting period.
Under both SIP and ESPP employees may purchase partnership shares through monthly salary deductions.
The Company then awards one matching share for every two partnership shares purchased.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time: however, matching shares are forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within the vesting period.
Matching shares in the SIP vest unconditionally for employees after being held for three years and in the ESPP after being held for two years.
Vesting of matching shares is also subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the plans.
Within the UK there is a maximum of 22 matching shares per employee per month.
Both UK partnership shares and matching shares are held in trust.
Matching shares are valued at the market price at the grant date.
Pensions Pension schemes The majority of the Groups UK employees at 31 December 2010 were members of one of the three main schemes: the Centrica Pension Scheme, the Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme and the Centrica Pension Plan formerly known as the Centrica Management Pension Scheme together the registered pension schemes.
The Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section and the Centrica Pension Plan a final salary scheme were closed to new members from 1 April 2003 and 1 July 2003 respectively.
On 1 January 2009 the majority of the active members of the Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section were transferred to the Centrica Pension Plan 2008 section.
The Centrica Pension Scheme also has a career average salary section which was closed to new members with effect from 1 July 2008 and replaced by a defined contribution section which is open to new members.
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme final salary section was closed to new members from 1 April 2006, and a career average salary section was added to the scheme at that date.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes and are tax-approved funded arrangements.
They are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
The Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme is an unfunded arrangement which provides benefits to certain employees whose benefits under the main schemes would otherwise be limited by the earnings cap.
The Group also has a commitment to provide certain pension and post-retirement benefits to employees of Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada under a defined benefit scheme.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the registered pension schemes at 31 March 2009, the Unapproved Pension Scheme at 6 April 2010 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited pension plan at 14 June 2008.
These have been updated to 31 December 2010 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19.
Investments have been valued for this purpose at market value.
Governance The UK-registered pension schemes are managed by trustee companies whose boards consist of both company-nominated and member-nominated directors.
Each scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund CCCIF, which holds the combined assets of the participating schemes.
The method of allocation of units is set out in the Trust Deed of the CCCIF.
The trustee of the CCCIF is a company, Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund Limited CCCIF Limited which was incorporated on 23 September 2002.
The trustee of the CCCIF may be appointed or removed by the participant schemes.
The board of CCCIF Limited is comprised of nine directors: three independent directors, three directors appointed by Centrica plc including the chairman and one director appointed by each of the three participating schemes.
No direct investments are made in securities issued by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries, property leased to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries or securities of any fund manager or any of their associated companies.
Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, Centrica plc the Company and each trustee board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit pension scheme and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme-specific statutory funding objective.
This approach was first adopted for the triennial valuations completed at 31 March 2006 and was again reflected in the 31 March 2009 valuations.
In addition, the Group has a commitment to provide contributions to defined contribution schemes for certain employees in the UK and North America who are not members of one of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation % % Rate of increase in employee earnings 4.7 4.8 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.7 3.8 Discount rate 5.7 6.0 RPI inflation assumption 3.7 3.8 On 8 July 2010 the Government announced that the inflation measure for minimum increases in occupational schemes was to be switched from the Retail Price Index RPI to the Consumer Price Index CPI.
This change only impacts the revaluation of deferred pensions in the main section of the Centrica Pension Plan.
The resulting reduction in defined benefit obligation of 36 million has been treated as a change in assumption and recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The inflation assumption for CPI at 31 December 2010 is 3.0%.
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the Balance Sheet date have been based on a combination of standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include a medium cohort allowance, as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, with an underpin.
The assumptions are equivalent to future longevity for members in normal health approximately as follows: 128 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 128 11 3 11 14:12:17 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 36.
Pensions continued 2010 2009 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 for a member Years Years Years Years Currently aged 65 22.6 24.0 22.5 23.9 Currently aged 45 24.4 25.3 24.3 25.2 At 31 March 2009, the date of the most recent actuarial review, the schemes had approximately 34,900 members and beneficiaries.
The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data.
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension schemes.
2010 2009 Indicative Indicative effect on effect on Increase scheme Increase scheme decrease in liabilities decrease in liabilities Impact of changing material assumptions assumption % assumption % Rate of increase in employee earnings 0.25% 1 0.25% 1 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.25% 5 0.25% 5 Discount rate 0.25% 6 0.25% 6 Inflation assumption 0.25% 6 0.25% 6 Longevity assumption 1 year 2 1 year 2 The expected long-term rate of return and market value of the assets and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at 31 December were: 2010 2009 Expected Expected long term long term rate of return rate of return per annum Valuation per annum Valuation % m % m UK equities 8.0 659 8.3 1,101 Non-UK equities 8.0 1,261 8.3 1,106 High-yield debt 7.5 229 6.6 127 Fixed-interest bonds 5.5 1,182 6.0 524 Index-linked gilts 4.2 773 4.5 364 Property 7.6 134 8.0 55 Cash pending investment 5.6 97 6.1 256 Total fair value of plan assets 6.6 4,335 7.4 3,533 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,574 4,098 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 239 565 Associated deferred tax asset recognised in the Balance Sheet 67 158 Net pension liability 172 407 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet comprises: Surpluses Deficits 239 565 239 565 The overall expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held in each class and the expected returns on separate asset classes less costs of administering the plan and taxes paid by the plan itself.
The returns on separate asset classes were derived as follows: the expected rate of return on equities, high-yield debt and property are based on the expected median return over a 10-year period, as calculated by the independent company actuary.
The median return over a longer period than ten years was not expected to be materially dissimilar.
The expected rate of return on fixed-interest bonds and index-linked gilts reflects yields directly observable on bond market indices.
The expected rate of return on cash pending investment reflects the average rate of return on the actual asset classes that the cash was invested in shortly after the year end.
Included within the schemes liabilities above are 33 million 2009: 31 million relating to unfunded pension arrangements.
Included within non-current securities are 52 million 2009: 48 million of investments, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme.
Based on the triennial valuation at 31 March 2009, the Company and the trustees of the registered pension schemes agreed a schedule for deficit payments.
An amount of 308 million has been paid in the year to 31 December 2010 and the following further deficit payments will be made: 6 million in 2011 and 57 million per annum from 2012 to 2016.
In addition, a charge over the Humber power station has been provided as additional security for the trustees.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 129 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 129 11 3 11 14:12:18 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
Pensions continued 2010 2009 Analysis of the amount charged to the Income Statement m m i Current service cost continuing operations 115 68 Loss on curtailment 14 6 Net charge to operating profit 129 74 Current service cost discontinued operations 2 Net charge to the Income Statement 129 76 i In addition to current service cost on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also charged 5 million 2009: 3 million to operating profit in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
2010 2009 Analysis of the amount credited to notional interest m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 275 209 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 249 185 Net credit to notional interest income 26 24 2010 2009 Analysis of the actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income m m Actuarial gain actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 154 344 Experience gains losses arising on the scheme liabilities 74 104 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes liabilities 237 1,044 Actuarial loss to be recognised in accumulated other comprehensive loss, before adjustment for taxation 9 804 Cumulative actuarial losses gains recognised in reserves at 1 January, before adjustment for taxation 480 324 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in reserves at 31 December, before adjustment for taxation 489 480 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Five-year history of surplus deficit m m m m m Plan assets 4,335 3,533 2,642 3,327 2,988 Defined benefit obligation 4,574 4,098 2,755 3,230 3,284 Surplus deficit 239 565 113 97 296 Five-year history of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 154 344 1,121 38 95 Percentage of scheme assets 3.6% 9.7% 42.4% 1.1% 3.2% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 74 104 16 145 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 1.6% 2.5% 0.5% 4.4% Total actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income: Amount m 9 804 399 284 475 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.2% 19.6% 14.5% 8.8% 14.5% 2010 2009 Movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year m m 1 January 4,098 2,755 Current service cost 115 70 Loss on curtailment 14 6 Interest on scheme liabilities 249 185 Plan participants contributions 33 30 Benefits paid from schemes 104 97 Benefits paid by company 1 1 Actuarial loss 163 1,148 Acquisitions of businesses 63 Disposals of businesses 62 Exchange adjustments 7 1 31 December 4,574 4,098 130 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 130 11 3 11 14:12:18 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 36.
Pensions continued 2010 2009 Movement in plan assets during the year m m 1 January 3,533 2,642 Expected return on scheme assets 275 209 Actuarial gain 154 344 Employer contributions 441 403 Plan participants contributions 33 30 Benefits paid from schemes 104 97 Acquisitions of businesses 46 Disposals of businesses 45 Exchange gains 3 1 31 December 4,335 3,533 Estimated future employer contribution rates pensionable salary and percentage of pensionable salary for the year ended 31 December 2011 m % Centrica Pension Scheme Final salary section 4 31.9 Centrica Pension Scheme Career average salary section 96 16.3 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Final salary section 173 24.6 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Career average salary section 74 14.2 Centrica Pension Plan Management section 70 26.7 Centrica Pension Plan 2008 section 120 25.3 37. Business combinations Trinidad and Tobago On 5 August 2010, the Group acquired full control of a business constituting a portfolio of interests in a number of gas assets located off the coast of Trinidad and Tobago for total cash consideration of $375 million 247 million.
The portfolio consists of a producing gas field which supplies gas into the Atlantic LNG facility as well as areas of development and exploration.
The acquisition increases the gas reserves of the Group and provides access to the Atlantic basin LNG market.
The acquisition is included within the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil segment.
Goodwill of 68 million arose on the acquisition.
This is principally attributable to deferred tax arising on the fair value adjustments but also to an element of going concern value that is expected to give access to future opportunities and benefits in the region.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The fair values disclosed in the table below are provisional due to the complicated arrangements in the production sharing agreement and the interactions with the local tax regulations.
Wildcat Hills On 30 September 2010, the Group acquired full control of a business constituting a portfolio of interests in a number of gas assets located to the West of Calgary in Canada for total cash consideration of CAN$352 million 218 million.
The portfolio consists of 97 natural gas and producing wells and working interests in three processing facilities.
The acquisition increases the natural gas reserves of the Group and provides additional gas to meet supply requirements of the North American retail customers.
The acquisition is included within the North America Upstream and wholesale energy segment.
Goodwill of nil arose on the acquisition.
The fair values disclosed in the table below are provisional pending finalisation of oil and gas reserves acquired and due to ongoing work occurring on the decommissioning provision and abandonment asset.
Acquisition costs of 1 million were incurred as part of the acquisition and expensed to the Income Statement as part of operating costs.
Clockwork On 1 July 2010, the Group acquired the business and net assets of Clockwork Home Services Inc and 100% of the shares of Air Time Canada Inc, together known as Clockwork.
The total cash consideration for the acquisition was $183 million 122 million, which includes deferred consideration of $17 million 11 million payable in 2012.
Clockwork provides heating, air conditioning, ventilation, plumbing and electrical services in the US and Canada.
The acquisition supports the Groups existing home services business in the US and Canada by providing increased geographical coverage, as well as expanding Direct Energys shared expertise.
The acquisition is included within the North America Residential and business services segment.
Goodwill of 87 million arose on the acquisition.
This is principally attributable to the synergies relating to procurement, location rationalisation and overhead realignment.
67 million of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
For acquired trade receivables, the fair value and gross amount receivable is 4 million and 5 million respectively.
1 million is the best estimate of contractual cash flows not expected to be collected.
The fair value and gross amount receivable of other acquired receivables is 3 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 131 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 131 11 3 11 14:12:18 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37. Business combinations continued The fair values disclosed in the table below are provisional pending finalisation of working capital and due to ongoing work on the intangible assets and deferred revenue balances at acquisition.
Acquisition costs of 1 million were incurred as part of the acquisition and were expensed to the income statement as part of operating costs.
Fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Trinidad and Tobago Wildcat Hills Clockwork m m m Intangible assets 6 35 42 Property, plant and equipment development and producing gas and oil field assets 245 213 Property, plant and equipment other 4 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Inventories 2 Trade and other receivables: current 1 7 Trade and other payables: current 15 Trade and other payables: non-current 7 Deferred tax liabilities 55 Provisions for other liabilities and charges: non-current 17 31 Net assets acquired 179 218 35 Goodwill 68 87 Total consideration 247 218 122 Consideration comprises: Cash consideration 247 218 111 Deferred cash consideration 11 Trinidad and Tobago Wildcat Hills Clockwork m m m Revenue incurred since the acquisition date and included within the Group Income Statement 15 16 59 Profit loss incurred since the acquisition date and included within the Group Income Statement 1 1 Pro forma information The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the acquisitions of Clockwork, Trinidad and Tobago and Wildcat Hills had been made at the beginning of the period, would include revenue from continuing operations of 22,564 million compared to reported Group revenue of 22,423 million and profit after taxation of 1,952 million compared to reported profit after taxation of 1,942 million.
In preparing the pro forma results, revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 January 2010 and intercompany transactions had been eliminated.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or indicative of the future results of the combined Group.
Other acquisitions During the year the following acquisitions occurred as described below.
Collectively the acquisitions are immaterial to the Groups financial statements.
The fair values are provisional unless stated otherwise.
On 1 October 2010, the Group acquired the business and net assets of the gas and electricity services businesses of Connaught Compliance for total cash consideration of 11 million.
Goodwill of 8 million arose on the acquisition.
The business specialises in the installation, service and maintenance of commercial gas boilers and electrical systems.
The acquisition supports the Groups existing provision of business services and is included within the Downstream UK Business energy supply and services segment.
On 12 April 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the shares in Hillserve Limited for total cash consideration of 5 million.
Goodwill of 3 million arose on the acquisition.
Hillserve Limited is a regional installer of insulation based in North-West England.
The acquisition supports the Groups intentions to develop its own insulation business within the UK.
The acquisition is included within the Downstream UK Residential energy supply segment.
On 6 December 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the shares in ECL Contracts Limited ECL for total cash consideration of 4 million.
ECL is a specialist external-wall insulation company.
The acquisition supports the Groups aim to be the leading supplier of domestic insulation, and allows the Group to diversify its own product range beyond loft and cavity wall insulation into solid wall insulation.
indd 132 11 3 11 14:12:19 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 37. Business combinations continued On 28 April 2010, the Group acquired the business and net assets of REPower for total cash consideration of $5 million 3 million.
REPower is engaged in the development of prepayment software, processes and systems.
The acquisition supports the Groups intentions of launching and commercialising pre-paid retail electricity in the North American electricity market.
The acquisition is included within the North America Residential energy supply segment.
On 29 March 2010, the Group acquired a number of producing gas assets in Craigmyle, Canada for total cash consideration of CAN$4 million 2 million.
The acquisition increases the gas reserves of the Group and creates operational synergies within Canada.
The Group also acquired Cool Planet Technologies Limited on 17 November 2010 for 1 million, JK Environmental Services UK Limited on 3 December 2010 for 1 million and 12 Dyno franchisees during 2010 for total consideration of 2 million.
2009 acquisitions fair value updates During the prior year, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Venture Production Plc Venture for total consideration of 1,253 million in a series of transactions occurring between 18 March 2009 and 9 November 2009.
The Group obtained a controlling interest in Venture on 27 August 2009 and Venture was consolidated as a subsidiary of the Group from this date.
The fair values disclosed in the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts were provisional as the Directors had not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise at that time.
During the year the Directors have reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
A number of revisions to the fair values disclosed in the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts were made.
The key factors that led to these fair value revisions are described below.
The revisions resulted in an overall decrease in the fair value of net assets of Venture and associated increase in goodwill at the date of acquisition of 50 million.
These revisions are immaterial and so have not been adjusted in the prior year and accordingly have been reflected in the Group Balance Sheet at 31 December 2010.
Increase decrease in fair value of net assets of Venture at acquisition date Key factors m Property, plant and equipment Updated assumptions and estimates in respect of key inputs used in the valuation models for future contractual payments 61 Current liabilities Updated assumptions and expectations in respect of key inputs used in the valuation of certain tax related liability positions 4 Provisions for other liabilities Updated assumptions and expectations in respect of key inputs used in the and charges valuation of decommissioning liabilities 7 Net deferred tax liabilities Updated assumptions and expectations in respect of the deferred tax arising plus the deferred tax effect of the above adjustments 22 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 133 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 133 11 3 11 14:12:19 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale Wind farm assets On 5 February 2010 the Upstream UK Power generation segment disposed of 50% of the issued share capital and 50% of the shareholder loan of Centrica Lincs Limited Lincs to Dong Wind UK Limited and Siemens Project Ventures GmbH for 55 million.
Centrica has retained 50% of its interests in Lincs, which owns a wind farm under construction off the Lincolnshire coast.
Centricas investment in Lincs is now being treated as a joint venture due to the joint control that arises from this transaction.
This disposal followed the sale on 11 December 2009 of 50% of the issued share capital of GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited GLID, formerly known as Centrica Renewable Holdings Limited, which was sold to the Trust Company of the West for 84 million.
Centrica retained 50% of the issued share capital of GLID, which owns 100% of the issued share capital of both Glens of Foudland Limited and Lynn and Inner Dowsing Limited the owners and operators of the Glens of Foudland and Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms respectively.
Centricas investment in GLID is now being treated as a joint venture due to the joint control that arises from this transaction.
European businesses The European segment was classified as a discontinued operation from 30 June 2009 following the Groups decision to dispose of its 100% interests in Segebel S. A. Segebel, Oxxio BV Oxxio in the Netherlands and Centrica Energa S. L. Centrica Energa in Spain.
The disposal of Segebel to EDF was completed on 26 November 2009.
The sale of Centrica Energa to Villar Mir Energa S. L. VME was completed on 4 November 2010 for total proceeds of 35 million 29 million.
The proceeds include a dividend of 21 million 17 million which was paid before the business was disposed of.
The sale process for the disposal of Oxxio has taken longer than anticipated when the assets were originally classified as held for sale and was therefore on-going during the year.
Accordingly Oxxio continued to be reported within discontinued operations during 2010.
The group leases a power station in Rijnmond, the Netherlands, through a tolling agreement.
This power station became operational in May 2010 and the initial expectation was that the agreement would be transferred with the Oxxio disposal so the results of the power station were included within discontinued operations.
During December 2010 a decision was taken not to include the lease on the power station in the current sale process and its results have been removed from discontinued operations and included within the Upstream UK Industrial and commercial segment.
The comparatives have not been restated as the power station was not operational in 2009. a Discontinued operations The results of Centrica Energa and Oxxio, which continued to be reported within discontinued operations in 2010 are analysed as follows: 2010 2009 Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Results for Business items and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Revenue 590 590 2,357 2,357 Cost of sales before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 514 514 2,008 2,008 Re-measurement of energy contracts 69 69 123 123 Cost of sales 514 69 445 2,008 123 2,131 Gross profit 76 69 145 349 123 226 Operating costs before exceptional items 78 78 246 246 Exceptional items 24 24 Operating costs 78 78 246 24 270 Share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 2 4 2 Operating loss profit 2 69 67 105 151 46 Net interest expense 1 1 12 12 Loss profit from operations before taxation 3 69 66 93 151 58 Taxation on profit from operations 5 2 7 53 20 33 Loss profit after taxation from operations 8 67 59 40 131 91 Net gain on disposal of Segebel and Energa after taxation 3 3 297 297 Loss profit after taxation from discontinued operations 5 67 62 40 166 206 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 5 67 62 8 204 196 Non-controlling interests 48 38 10 5 67 62 40 166 206 The 2009 comparatives additionally include the results of Segebel up to its disposal date.
indd 134 11 3 11 14:12:20 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 38.
Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued b Disposal groups classified as held for sale Assets, and associated liabilities, that are expected to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use are classified as held for sale on the face of the Balance Sheet, and presented separately from the assets and liabilities of the Groups continuing operations.
At 31 December 2010, the sale of Oxxio in the Netherlands had not completed and consequently the related assets and liabilities have been presented as held for sale on the face of the Balance Sheet as follows: m Goodwill 62 Other intangible assets 15 Property, plant and equipment 34 Derivative financial instruments: non-current 1 Trade and other receivables: current 330 Derivative financial instruments: current 10 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 455 Trade and other payables: current 344 Provisions for other liabilities and charges: current 4 Derivative financial instruments: current 17 Derivative financial instruments: non-current 3 Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 368 Net assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 87 Total shareholders equity 87 Trade and other receivables include 269 million financial assets and 61 million non-financial assets.
218 million of financial trade and other receivables relate to residential customers, 38 million relate to business customers and 13 million relate to treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties, net of provisions for credit losses.
Trade and other payables include 56 million financial liabilities and 288 million non-financial liabilities.
The fair value of financial instruments held by disposal groups classified as held for sale are equal to their carrying values.
The derivative financial instruments included in the Balance Sheet comprise energy derivatives held for trading under IAS 39 and relate to short-term forward market purchases and sales of electricity.
Net gains of 62 million associated with these derivatives were recognised in the Income Statement during 2010.
The derivative financial instruments held by discontinued operations are classified into the following fair value hierarchies as defined in note 29 : Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Energy derivatives held for trading under IAS 39 Financial assets 3 8 11 Financial liabilities 5 15 20 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 135 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 135 11 3 11 14:12:20 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued c Disposals On 4 November 2010 the disposal of Centrica Energa resulted in a loss on disposal of 6 million.
On 5 February 2010 the disposal of Lincs resulted in no gain or loss on disposal.
The loss on disposal arising in the period from these transactions is as follows: Lincs Centrica Energa m m Non-current assets 42 1 Current assets 63 71 Current liabilities 2 56 Non-current liabilities 103 Total net assets disposed 16 Cash consideration 5 12 Hedging reserve released upon transfer of derivatives 9 Revaluation of retained interest 6 Disposal costs 2 2 Loss on disposal before taxation 6 Taxation on profit on disposal Loss on disposal after taxation 6 On 11 August 2010 the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Hummingbird Oil Pte Ltd resulting in an exceptional gain on disposal of 25 million see note 9.
Hummingbird Oil Pte Ltd was a non-core investment acquired during the 2009 acquisition of Venture plc and was held at nil net book value.
In 2009, the disposal of the Groups 100% interest in Segebel on 26 November 2009 resulted in a profit on disposal, net of taxation, of 297 million.
During 2010, a surplus provision of 9 million relating to the disposal of Segebel was released.
The disposal of 50% of the Groups interest in GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited on 11 December 2009 resulted in an exceptional profit on disposal, net of taxation, of 49 million.
Commitments and contingencies a Commitments 2010 2009 Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment m m Construction of a power station at Langage 43 i Construction of Lincs wind farm 385 Gas field developments 119 116 Other power station capital expenditure 52 16 Other 13 3 184 563 i The Lincs wind farm was disposed of on 5 February 2010, as described in note 38.
2010 2009 Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets m m Renewable obligation certificates to be purchased from: i Joint ventures 1,145 578 Other parties 631 868 Carbon emissions certificates 61 326 Certified emission reduction certificates 105 110 Exploration activity 80 205 Other 66 40 2,088 2,127 i Renewable obligation certificates are purchased from several joint ventures which produce power from wind energy.
The commitments disclosed above are the gross contractual commitments and do not take into account the Groups economic interest in the joint venture.
indd 136 11 3 11 14:12:20 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 39.
Commitments and contingencies continued 2010 2009 Commitments in relation to other contracts m m Liquefied natural gas capacity 629 675 Transportation capacity 666 689 Outsourcing of services 444 325 Other 414 444 2,153 2,133 2010 2009 restated i Commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts m m ii Within one year 8,517 7,431 iii Between one and five years 21,287 20,275 After five years 10,616 14,149 40,420 41,855 i Restated to net off amounts receivable under commodity sales contracts where there is a right of set-off with the counterparty.
ii Includes 132 million 2009: 144 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38. iii Includes 38 million 2009: 112 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38.
The Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields, power stations, wind farms and procurement contracts.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.
They also include gas and electricity contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation.
The commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts disclosed above are stated net of amounts receivable under commodity sales contracts, where there is a right of set-off with the counterparty.
The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis.
The commitments disclosed above are based on the minimum quantities of gas that the Group is contracted to buy at estimated future prices.
The commitments in this note differ in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note 22.
Whilst the commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts include all purchase contracts, only certain procurement and sales contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note 22.
In addition, the volumes used in calculating principal values in note 22 are estimated using valuation techniques, rather than being based on minimum contractual quantities and in note 22 there is no offset of amounts receivable under commodity sales contracts where there is a right of set-off with the counterparty.
2010 2009 Commitments by associates and joint ventures m m Share of associates commitments 290 302 Share of joint ventures commitments 319 2 609 304 b Operating lease commitments At 31 December, the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following years were: 2010 2009 m m i Within one year 146 109 ii Between one and five years 331 214 After five years 486 116 963 439 2010 2009 m m The total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 31 December 22 19 Lease and sub-lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: Minimum lease payments 101 68 iii Contingent rents renewables 115 113 Contingent rents other 4 3 i Includes 1 million 2009: 2 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38. ii Includes 2 million 2009: 2 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38. iii The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption certificates from renewable sources.
Payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and therefore the commitment to a minimum lease payment included above is nil 2009: nil.
Payments made for physical power are charged to the Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 137 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 137 11 3 11 14:12:21 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 39.
Commitments and contingencies continued c Decommissioning costs The Group has provided certain guarantees and indemnities in respect of decommissioning costs.
The most significant is to BG Group plc in respect of the decommissioning costs of the Morecambe gas fields.
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, have agreed to provide security, in respect of such guarantees and indemnities, to BG International Limited, which, as original licence holder for the Morecambe gas fields, will have exposure to decommissioning costs relating to the Morecambe gas fields should liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.
The security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the Morecambe gas fields falls below 150% of the estimated cost of such decommissioning.
The nature of the security may take a number of different forms and will remain in force until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant Department of Business, Innovation and Skills formerly Department of Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform decommissioning notice in respect of the Morecambe gas fields has been revoked.
d Contingent liabilities There are no material contingent liabilities.
e Guarantees and indemnities In connection with the Groups energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into contracts under which they may be required to prepay or provide credit support or other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration in creditworthiness.
The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group entered into the following arms length transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2010 2009 Sale Purchase Sale Purchase of goods of goods of goods of goods and services and services and services and services m m m m Joint ventures: Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 21 22 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 13 17 Glens of Foundland Wind Farm Limited 3 GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited 8 9 Inner Dowsing Wind Farm Limited 19 Lynn Wind Farm Limited 18 Associates: Alertme.
com Limited 1 Lake Acquisitions Limited 278 284 1 North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited 24 34 i Sevan Production General Partnership 13 Other investments: Point Fortin LNG Exports Limited 12 290 404 83 i Sevan Production General Partnership is an associate of Hummingbird Oil Pte Ltd, which was disposed of by the Group on 11 August 2010 see note 38.
Investment and funding transactions for joint ventures and associates are disclosed in note 19.
Balances outstanding with related parties at 31 December were as follows: 2010 2009 Amounts owed from Amounts owed to Amounts owed from Amounts owed to related parties related parties related parties related parties m m m m Joint ventures: Bacton Storage Company Limited 14 2 Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 5 11 5 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 15 3 21 3 Lincs Wind Farm Limited 128 Glens of Foundland Wind Farm Limited 1 GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited 49 19 41 26 Inner Dowsing Wind Farm Limited 5 Lynn Wind Farm Limited 4 Associates: Lake Acquisitions Limited 33 53 North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited 2 3 Other investments: Point Fortin LNG Exports Limited 5 244 92 75 37 138 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 138 11 3 11 14:12:21 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 40.
Related party transactions continued The terms of the outstanding balances related to trade receivables from related parties are typically 30 to 120 days.
The balances are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No provision for bad or doubtful debts owed by related parties was required 2009: nil.
Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 14 individuals at 31 December 2010 2009: 13.
Key management personnel and their families purchase gas, electricity and home services products from the Group for domestic purposes on terms equal to those for other employees of the Group.
2010 2009 Remuneration of key management personnel m m Short-term benefits 10 10 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 10 9 21 20 41.
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts Fixed-fee service contracts are entered into with home services customers in the UK and home and business services customers in North America.
These contracts continue until cancelled by either party to the contract.
These plans incorporate both an annual service element and a maintenance element.
Insurance contracts are entered into with home service customers in the UK by British Gas Insurance Limited, an entity regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA since August 2009.
Product offerings include central heating, boiler and controls, plumbing and drains and electrical appliance insurance cover.
These contracts are normally for periods of 12 months with the option of renewal.
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts protect purchasers of these contracts against the risk of breakdown of electrical, plumbing, heating, cooling and household appliances, resulting in the transfer of an element of risk from contract holders to Centrica.
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into, however, generally include repair and or replacement of the items affected.
The risk and level of service required within these contracts is dependent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Accordingly, the timing and amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain.
The key terms and conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows: provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service: one safety and maintenance inspection either annually or in every continuous two-year period, as set out in the agreement: no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out repair work: and caps on certain maintenance and repair costs within fixed-fee service and insurance contracts.
Revenue from fixed-fee service and insurance contracts is recognised with regard to the incidence of risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to be made under the contracts and the benefits receivable by the customer, which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the contract term.
Cost of sales relates directly to the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of which is accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
The costs of claims under the fixed-fee service and insurance contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services.
These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can affect the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Centricas obligations under the terms of home services fixed-fee service and insurance contracts are based on the number of breakdowns occurring within the contract period.
Centrica actively manages the risk exposure of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: an initial service visit is performed for central heating care and insurance cover.
If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the fixed-fee service and insurance contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided: an annual or biennial safety and maintenance inspection is performed to ensure that issues are identified before they develop into significant maintenance or breakdown issues: and caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into fixed-fee service and insurance contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of prevalence and cost to repair.
The Group considers the adequacy of estimated future cash flows under the contracts to meet expected future costs under the contracts.
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Income Statement.
Service requests are sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions.
Each incremental 1% increase in service and insurance requests would impact profit and equity by approximately 9 million 2009: 8 million.
The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk or significant credit risk and do not contain any embedded derivatives.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 139 11 3 11 14:12:21 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 41.
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts continued The fixed-fee service claims and insurance claims notified during the year were 259 million 2009: 305 million and 104 million 2009: 2 million respectively and were exactly matched by expenses related to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts.
All claims are settled immediately and in full.
Due to the short lead time between claims being incurred and claims being rectified, there are nil material provisions outstanding at the balance sheet date 2009: nil.
2010 2009 m m Total revenue 1,098 995 Expenses relating to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 851 803 Deferred income unearned premium 57 55 Accrued income 34 21 42.
Events after the balance sheet date The Directors propose a final dividend of 10.46 pence per ordinary share totalling 539 million for the year ended 31 December 2010.
indd 140 11 3 11 14:12:22 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Shareholder Information 151 43.
Principal undertakings Country of Percentage holding in ordinary 31 December 2010 incorporation formation shares and net assets Principal activity i Subsidiary undertakings Bastrop Energy Partners LP USA 100 Power generation Brae Canada Ltd Canada 100 Investment company British Gas Insurance Limited England 100 Insurance provision British Gas Services Limited England 100 Business energy supply and services British Gas Trading Limited England 100 Energy supply Caythorpe Gas Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage Centrica Barry Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Brigg Limited England 100 Power generation ii Centrica Energy Limited England 100 Proprietary energy trading iii Centrica Energy Trading Limited England 100 Proprietary energy trading Centrica Energy Operations Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KL Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Langage Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Norway Limited England 100 Gas and oil exploration and production Centrica PB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Renewable Energy Limited England 100 Renewable energy holding company Centrica Resources Limited England 100 Gas and oil production Centrica RPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica SHB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage iv Clockwork Inc USA 100 Home services CPL Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Business LLC USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Marketing Inc USA 100 Wholesale energy trading Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada 100 Energy supply and home services Direct Energy Partnership Canada 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Resources Partnership Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy Services LLC USA 100 Energy supply and home services Direct Energy US Home Services Inc USA 100 Home commercial services Dyno Holdings Limited England 100 Home services Energy America LLC USA 100 Energy supply Frontera Generation LP USA 100 Power generation GB Gas Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Hydrocarbon Resources Limited England 100 Gas production Paris Generation LP USA 100 Power generation The Centrica Gas Production LP England 100 Gas production Venture North Sea Gas Limited Scotland 100 Gas and oil production Venture North Sea Gas Exploration Limited England 100 Gas and oil production Venture North Sea Oil Limited Scotland 100 Gas and oil production Venture Production Services Limited Scotland 100 Employee services v Venture Production Limited Scotland 100 Holding company WTU Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Joint ventures and associates Barrow Offshore Wind Limited England 50 Power generation Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited Scotland 50 Power generation GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited England 50 Renewable energy holding company vi Lincs Wind Farm Limited Scotland 50 Renewable energy holding company North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited Scotland 49.9 Pipeline construction operation Lake Acquisitions Limited England 20 Power generation NNB Holding Company Limited England 20 Power generation i All principal undertakings are held indirectly by the Company.
The information is only given for those subsidiaries which in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the Financial Statements.
ii As at 31 December 2010 the company was called Accord Energy Limited and changed its name to Centrica Energy Limited with effect from 1 February 2011. iii As at 31 December 2010 the company was called Accord Energy Trading Limited and changed its name to Centrica Energy Trading Limited with effect from 1 February 2011. iv Holding company for the Clockwork group of companies acquired in 2010, previously called Direct Energy CW Inc. v During 2010, Venture Production plc was re-registered as a private limited company.
vi Joint venture formed in 2010.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 141 BOL10723 centrica.
