REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS POLICIES We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements introduced Internal control over financial reporting pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining It is the opinion of the Board that the Audit Committee includes in adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group the person of Phil Hodkinson a member who is an audit committee including the consolidation process.
Internal control over financial financial expert and who is independent as dened for this reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding purpose.
The Board considers that the Committees members the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial generally have broad commercial knowledge and extensive statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with business leadership experience, having held between them IFRS.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness various prior roles in major business, government, financial of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework management, treasury and financial function supervision and that for internal control evaluation contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of business, financial, Based on this assessment, management has concluded that as at management and IT experience on the Committee.
The code of 31 March 2010, BTs internal control over financial reporting was ethics adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is effective.
posted on the companys website at www.
com ethics The code There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial applies to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and senior reporting that occurred during the 2010 financial year that have finance managers.
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, the groups internal control over financial reporting.
Any Disclosure controls and procedures significant deficiency, as dened by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after evaluating financial reporting, is reported to the Audit Committee.
the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of  LLP, which has audited the the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, consolidated financial statements for the 2010 financial year, has have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and also audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over procedures were effective to ensure that material information financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
relating to BT was made known to them by others within the group.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have also provided the certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 81 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
