REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS POLICIES may invite participants on whose behalf it holds shares to direct it this document was approved.
The processes are in accordance with how to vote in respect of those shares, and if there is an offer for the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of published by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull control of BT, participants may direct it to accept the offer or Guidance.
In respect of shares held in the BT Group Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains from BTs annual strategic planning cycle.
We have a detailed risk voting those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares the management process, culminating in a Board review, which trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the offer but will have identies the key risks facing the group and each business unit.
This regard to the interests of the participants, may consult them to information is reviewed by senior management as part of the obtain their views on the offer and may otherwise take the action strategic review.
Our current key risks are summarised in Review of with respect to the offer it thinks fair: the Year Our Risks on pages 36 and 37.
The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and we are not aware of any agreements between shareholders internal control process comprise the following procedures: that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have created a group risk register describing the risks, owners no person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by the Operating control of the Company Committee before being reviewed and approved by the Board proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received the lines of business carry out risk assessments of their by the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general operations, create risk registers relating to those operations, and meeting see also page 161 ensure that the key risks are addressed the amendment of BTs articles of association requires senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations shareholder approval in accordance with legislation in force report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the from time to time operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility the powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of and the articles of association.
They are authorised to issue and the quality of risk management and control, report to allot shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares subject management and the Audit Committee on the status of specic to shareholder approval at the AGM areas identied for improvement and promote effective risk BT Group plc is not party to any significant agreements that management in the lines of business operations take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the following a takeover effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures in we do not have any agreements with directors providing for the group during the financial year.
It reviews reports from the compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the because of a takeover.
There is similarly no such provision in Board.
The Audit Committee has carried out these actions for the standard contracts for employees.
Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not Financial instruments been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of The Board has approved the formal statement of matters which the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
It has foreign exchange are given in note 32 on pages 137 to 144. also approved the groups corporate governance framework, which sets out the high level principles by which BT is managed and the Internal control and risk management responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee and the groups senior executives.
As part of this framework, the The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control development and implementation of certain powers relating to and risk management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness group-wide policies and practices are reserved to identied senior of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather executives.
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: In the 2009 financial year, we undertook a comprehensive any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance re-evaluation of our management of major contracts and as a result against material misstatement or loss.
The process in place for have implemented enhanced due diligence in contract bidding, a reviewing BTs systems of internal control includes procedures new governance structure to monitor contract delivery and to designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in identify commercial, financial or operational risks, and greater the case of any categorised as significant, procedures exist to focus on managing the cost base including our key suppliers.
An ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
independent contract review team now undertakes reviews of our The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental most significant contracts and monitors compliance with our and ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews governance standards.
These further developments in our annually BTs corporate responsibility policy.
The companys management of contract risk have applied throughout the 2010 workplace practices, specic environmental, social and ethical risks financial year.
and opportunities and details of underlying governance processes are dealt with in the Review of the year Our resources on page 18.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 We have enterprise-wide risk management processes for BT has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with those the group.
These processes have been in place for the whole of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign issuers.
2010 financial year and have continued up to the date on which 80 B BT GR T GROUP PL OUP PLC C ANNU ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT & T & FORM FORM 20-F 20-F
