ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS l Disclosure of interests in shares Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules there is a statutory obligation on a person who acquires or ceases to have a notiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company like BT to notify the company of that fact.
These Rules also deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures of companies in which they are directors and certain associated companies.
Under Section 793 of the 2006 Act referred to in a above, BT may ascertain the persons who are or have within the last three years been interested in its shares and the nature of those interests.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
Material contracts Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by BT or another member of the group which are, or may be, material to the group or contain a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other member of the group.
Taxation US Holders This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs by US Holders as dened below who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address aspects that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special provisions of US federal income tax law, including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organisations, banks, regulated investment companies, financial institutions, securities broker-dealers, traders in securities who elect a mark-to-market method of accounting, persons subject to alternative minimum tax, investors that directly, indirectly or by attribution own 10% or more of the outstanding share capital or voting power of BT, persons holding their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or conversion transaction, persons who acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise as compensation, or persons whose functional currency is not the US Dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, is: a citizen or individual resident of the United States, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes created or organised in or under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof, an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult its own tax advisor regarding the specic tax consequences of owning and disposing of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and the practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and US law and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, existing and proposed Treasury regulations, rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all as currently in effect and available, ii the United KingdomUnited States Convention relating to estate and gift taxes, and iii the United KingdomUnited States Tax Convention that entered into force on 31 March 2003 and the protocol thereto the Convention, all as in effect on the date of this annual report, all of which are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors as to the applicability of the Convention and the consequences under UK, US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Taxation of dividends Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax at source from dividend payments it makes.
Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency, or, in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, the holder should not be liable for UK tax on dividends received in respect of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated as ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution includible in gross income of a US Holder will be the US Dollar value of the distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
A US Holder who converts Sterling into US Dollars on the date of receipt generally should not recognise any exchange gain or loss.
A US Holder who does not convert Sterling into US Dollars on the date of receipt generally will have a tax basis in the British pounds equal to their US Dollar value on such date.
Foreign currency gain or loss, if any, recognised by the US Holder on a subsequent conversion or other disposition of Sterling generally will be US source ordinary income or loss.
Dividends paid by BT to a US Holder will not be eligible for the US dividends received deduction that may otherwise be available to corporate shareholders.
For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as income from sources outside the United States and generally will constitute passive income.
The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are very complex.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US federal income tax on a dollar for dollar basis like a tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations applicable to foreign credits.
There will be no right to any UK tax credit or to any payment from HMRC in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
164 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced rates of US federal income tax currently at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of qualied dividend income received in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011.
For this purpose, qualied dividend income generally includes dividends paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, the US Holders meet certain minimum holding periods and the non-US corporation satisfies certain requirements, including that either i the shares or ADSs with respect to which the dividend has been paid are readily tradeable on an established securities market in the United States, or ii the non-US corporation is eligible for the benets of a comprehensive US income tax treaty such as the Convention which provides for the exchange of information.
BT currently believes that dividends paid with respect to its ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute qualied dividend income for US federal income tax purposes.
Each individual US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax advisor regarding the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of his own particular situation and regarding the computations of his foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualied dividend income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
Taxation of capital gains Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for United Kingdom tax purposes in the United Kingdom or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession, or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch, agency, or in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, and the ordinary shares and or ADSs have been used, held, or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation the holder should not be liable for UK tax on capital gains on a disposal of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom on or after 17 March 1998 or who falls to be regarded as resident outside the United Kingdom for the purposes of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March 2005 and continues to not be resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or continues to be Treaty non-resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposes of his ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may also be liable on his return to the United Kingdom to UK tax on capital gains, subject to any available exemption or relief, even though he is not resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or is Treaty non-resident at the time of disposal.
For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the difference between the US Dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined in US Dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for more than one year at the time of disposition.
Long-term capital gains recognised by an individual US Holder generally are subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
A US Holders tax basis in an ordinary share will generally be its US Dollar cost.
The US Dollar cost of an ordinary share purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US dollar value of the purchase price on the date of purchase, or the settlement date for the purchase, in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market, as dened in the applicable Treasury Regulations, that are purchased by a cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects.
Such an election by an accrual basis US Holder must be applied consistently from year to year and cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS.
The amount realised on a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares for an amount in foreign currency will be the US Dollar value of this amount on the date of sale or disposition.
On the settlement date, the US Holder will recognise US source foreign currency gain or loss taxable as ordinary income or loss equal to the difference if any between the US Dollar value of the amount received based on the exchange rates in effect on the date of sale or other disposition and the settlement date.
However, in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market that are sold by a cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects, the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect on the settlement date for the sale, and no exchange gain or loss will be recognised at that time.
Passive foreign investment company status A non-US corporation will be classied as a passive foreign investment company for US federal income tax purposes a PFIC for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income consists of passive income or at least 50% of the average value of its assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for the tax year ending 31 March 2010.
If BT were to become a PFIC for any tax year, US Holders would suffer adverse tax consequences.
These consequences may include having gains realised on the disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary income rather than capital gains and being subject to punitive interest charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, dividends paid by BT would not be qualied dividend income which may be eligible for reduced rates of taxation as described above.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules to BT.
US information reporting and backup withholding Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a current rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these information reporting requirements.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US Holder who provides a correct taxpayer identication number or certicate of foreign status and makes any other required certication or who is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are US persons for US federal income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identication Number and Certication.
Holders that are not United States persons for US federal income tax purposes generally will not be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
However, such holders may be required to provide certication of non-US status in connection with payments received in the United States or through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a holders US federal income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely ling the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any required information.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 165 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
