FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Composition of the group Accounting policies The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are detailed on page 149. i Basis of preparation and presentation of the financial statements ii Basis of consolidation Compliance with applicable law and IFRS The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in of BT Group plc the company and its subsidiaries, and they accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS incorporate its share of the results of joint ventures and associates Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and using the equity method of accounting.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS known as the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Accounting convention A joint venture is an entity that is jointly controlled by two or The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under more entities.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of the historical cost convention, modied for the revaluation of control over an economic activity, and exists only when the certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Presentation of specic items An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint identify trading results before significant one-off or unusual items venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the termed specic items.
This is consistent with the way that financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not financial performance is measured by management and reported control or joint control over those policies.
to the Board and the Operating Committee and assists in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
year are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements way is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the performance as specic items are significant one-off or unusual in accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
All nature and have little predictive value.
Furthermore, the group intra group transactions, balances, income and expenses are considers a columnar presentation to be appropriate, as it improves eliminated on consolidation.
the clarity of the presentation and is consistent with the way that Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially financial performance is measured by management and reported to recognised at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of the Board and the Operating Committee.
Specic items may not be the groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes the comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
groups share of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in Items which have been considered to be significant one-off or the value of individual assets.
The income statement reects the unusual in nature include disposals of businesses and investments, groups share of the results of operations after tax of the associate business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, or joint venture.
property rationalisation programmes and the settlement of multiple tax years in a single settlement.
Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 5. iii Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or Critical accounting estimates and key judgements receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of The preparation of financial statements in conformity with discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services generally accepted accounting principles requires management to and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
transaction, it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where Services assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services financial statements are disclosed on pages 93 and 94 in Critical is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the accounting estimates and key judgements.
rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from Implementation of new accounting standards calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the groups With effect from 1 April 2009, the group adopted the amendment network.
to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for Cancellations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IAS 1 Revised access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue costs, minor amendments to a number of other accounting arising from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between standards and several new interpretations.
The adoption of the other telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of amendment to IFRS 2 and IAS 1 Revised has resulted in the transit across the groups network.
Further details are provided on pages 94 and 95.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 87 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equipment sales v Government grants Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the will be received and the group will comply with the conditions equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
Grants that compensate the group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement within Long-term contractual arrangements other operating income in the same periods in which the associated Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised expenditure is recognised.
Grants that compensate the group for based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according straight line basis over the useful life of the asset.
to the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts, revenue is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the vi Leases contract.
However, if the performance pattern is other than straight line, revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a output or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires contracts to design and build software solutions, revenue is an assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is recognised by reference to the stage of completion, as determined dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether by the proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
contract costs, or other measures of completion such as the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds achievement of contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is recognised as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of the contract are deferred and recorded within non current assets.
future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any the pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the income the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with statement immediately, except where a proportion of the profit or reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such loss is deferred or amortised because the sale price was not equal to circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to fair value.
date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the vii Foreign currencies contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and economic environment in which the entity operates the functional can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the full Sterling, the presentation currency of the group.
contract life loss is recognised immediately.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the separate elements that have value to a customer on a standalone transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the basis, revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an settlement of such transactions and from the translation of individual contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies between the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value at period end exchange rates are recognised in the income and the appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature element as described above.
of the item or transaction.
Where monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation and are designated as iv Other operating income hedges of a net investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange Other operating income is income generated by the group that differences are recognised in equity.
arises from activities outside of the provision of communication On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings services and equipment sales.
Items reported as other operating are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results income include income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates and cable recovery, income generated by our eet operations, of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable income from government grants, profits and losses on the disposal approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on of business operations and property, plant and equipment and the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are income generated from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
88 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and Brands, customer lists and customer relationships liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are translation difference associated with the undertaking in the recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and recognised in the income statement.
include managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the acquired businesses.
viii Business combinations Subscriber acquisition costs The purchase method of accounting is used for the acquisition of Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they subsidiaries, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
On meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are transition to IFRS, the group elected not to apply IFRS 3 capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the expected retrospectively to acquisitions that occurred before 1 April 2004. customer life or contractual period.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is therefore treated as follows: Estimated useful economic lives Goodwill which arose after 1 April 2004: included in the balance The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal sheet at original cost, less any provisions for impairment.
This categories of intangible assets are as follows: goodwill is not amortised.
Computer software 2 to 5 years Goodwill which arose between 1 January 1998 and 1 April 2004: Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years included in the balance sheet at original cost, less accumulated Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years amortisation to the date of transition to IFRS and less any provisions for impairment.
This goodwill is not amortised after the date of transition to IFRS.
x Research and development Goodwill which arose before 1 January 1998: written off directly Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the to retained earnings.
period in which it is incurred.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are attributed to Development expenditure, including the cost of internally the identiable net tangible and intangible assets acquired.
The developed software, is recognised in the income statement in the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as benets will ow to the group from the asset being developed, the goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility the groups share of the identiable net assets acquired, the can be demonstrated.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
On developed is ready for use.
disposal of a subsidiary, the gain or loss on disposal includes the Research and development costs include direct labour, carrying amount of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
contractors charges, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Goodwill previously written off to retained earnings is not recycled to the income statement on disposal of the related subsidiary.
xi Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at ix Intangible assets historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group losses.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benets difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the date of disposal is recorded in the income statement.
asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful Cost economic life.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern are direct labour, contractors charges, materials and directly cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
Goodwill Depreciation Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill is to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into reviewed annually for impairment and carried at cost less account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not subject to accumulated impairment losses.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Computer software Land and buildings Computer software comprises computer software purchased from Freehold buildings 40 years third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of Computer software purchased from third parties and internally lease or 40 years, developed software is initially recorded at cost.
whichever is the shorter Telecommunication licences Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 89 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS benets.
The group recognises termination benets when it is Network infrastructure and equipment demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the Transmission equipment: group.
Duct 40 years Cable 3 to 25 years Fibre 5 to 20 years xvi Post retirement benets Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years is administered by an independent Trustee, for the majority of its Other employees.
Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years The groups obligation in respect of dened benefit pension Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years plans is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter their service to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted to useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are arrive at the net pension obligation or asset.
The discount rate used recognised prospectively.
is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the groups xii Borrowing costs obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which using the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation or asset the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 April 2009, recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened and which take more than 12 months to complete, the group benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
capitalises borrowing costs during the construction phase as part of The income statement charge is allocated between an operating the cost of that asset.
Previously, the group immediately recognised charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating charge all borrowing costs as an expense in the income statement.
The reects the service cost which is spread systematically over the change in accounting policy was due to the adoption of IAS 23 working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge reects the Borrowing Costs Revised.
unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on xiii Asset impairment non financial assets conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and which they occur and are presented in the statement of equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in comprehensive income.
circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test out by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustee at is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of the higher of the net present value of the expected future cash contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on the advice ows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair of the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these Trustee value less cost to sell.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
reviewed for impairment at least annually.
The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
and the income statement is charged with the contributions If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce payable.
the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata xvii Share-based payment basis against intangible and other assets.
The group operates a number of equity settled share-based Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, payment arrangements, under which the group receives services it may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change from employees as consideration for equity instruments share in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since options and shares of the group.
Equity settled share-based the last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant, but including that would have been determined, net of depreciation or any market-based performance criteria and the impact of nonamortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
This does vesting conditions for example the requirement for employees to not apply for goodwill, for which an impairment loss may not be save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised on a reversed in any circumstances.
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and xiv Inventory adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial pricing model or Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or the Monte Carlo model, whichever is most appropriate to the award.
The group adopted IFRS 2 Share-based payment vesting Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower conditions and cancellations, with effect from 1 April 2009.
The of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for amendment claries that only service and performance conditions obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into account to determine the xv Termination benets fair value of equity instruments granted.
In the case that an award Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment or option does not vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting is terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an condition that is within the control of either counterparty, this is employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations must be treated as 90 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS accelerated vesting and all remaining future charges are xxii Financial instruments immediately recognised.
As the requirement to save under an Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and employee share save arrangement is a non-vesting condition, financial liabilities employee cancellations must be treated as an accelerated vesting.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the xviii Taxation instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership or Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures particular, for all regular way purchases and sales of financial assets, operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically the group recognises the financial assets on the settlement date, evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which is the date on which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the Financial assets amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
Financial assets at fair value through income statement Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally of temporary differences between the carrying amount of the for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if groups assets and liabilities and their tax base, except to the extent so designated by management.
Financial assets held in this that the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial category are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or value, with changes in value recognised in the income statement in liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
The direct transaction costs are recognised immediately Deferred tax liabilities are, where permitted, offset against in the income statement.
deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only Loans and receivables when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible other than those for which the group may not recover substantially temporary difference can be utilised.
all of its initial investment, other than because of credit Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to deterioration, which are classied as available-for-sale.
apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on recognised in the income statement in the line which most investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Available-for-sale financial assets reverse in the foreseeable future.
Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, either specically designated in this category or not classied in except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly in any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with xix Advertising and marketing unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates The costs associated with the groups advertising and marketing for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, activities are recognised within other operating costs as incurred.
which are recognised in the income statement recognised in equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the xx Dividends cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, in the line that most appropriately reects Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which the nature of the item or transaction.
they are declared and approved by the companys shareholders in the annual general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised Trade and other receivables when they are paid.
Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, xxi Provisions and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or interest method less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and of non payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by experienced and general economic conditions.
discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and Cash and cash equivalents the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the have an original maturity of three months or less.
contract or the cost to exit it.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 91 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and Derivative financial instruments cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify Impairment of financial assets for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
and are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is recognised immediately in the income statement in net finance reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future the hedge.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as current cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective assets or current liabilities where they are not designated in a interest rate.
The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be hedging relationship or have a maturity period within 12 months.
related objectively to an event after the impairment was recognised Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period and is reversed to the extent that the carrying value of the asset greater than 12 months and are designated in a hedge relationship, does not exceed its amortised cost at the date of reversal.
they are classied within either non current assets or non current If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising liabilities.
the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host instruments are taken through the income statement if the increase contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event in the fair value of embedded derivatives are recognised in the occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as nature of the item or transaction.
available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been Hedge accounting incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be fair value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss tested for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount which the hedge remains in operation.
and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Cash ow hedge When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the Financial liabilities variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Trade and other payables probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and effective interest method.
recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the Loans and other borrowings income statement.
Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value For highly probable transactions, when the transaction plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other subsequently results in the recognition of a non financial asset or borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair non financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying fair value of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or amount of the non financial asset or liability.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results or borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity using the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value are reclassied into the income statement in the same period or hedge relationship, are revalued to reect the fair value periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects movements on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other the income statement.
The resultant amortisation of fair value movements, on Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised fide-designation of the hedge, are recognised in the income asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income statement.
statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most Financial guarantees appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the Fair value hedge amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge relating to provisions and the amount initially determined less, of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or when appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the 92 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to be fully recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest the same line in the income statement, together with any changes estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include: in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans and Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation market position and other factors such as general economic Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency conditions: instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to transition, development, transformation and deployment phases the extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
for customer contracts: Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a The status of commercial relations with customers and the foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
implication for future revenue and cost projections: and Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the degree Discontinuance of hedge accounting to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group up, transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged services contracts are disclosed in note 17. financial asset or liability remains or a highly probable transaction is still expected to occur.
Under a cash ow hedge, the cumulative Interconnect income and payments to other gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in telecommunications operators accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If In certain instances, BT relies on other operators to measure the the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place or the trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are used underlying hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, the in these cases to determine the amount of income receivable from, cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is or payments we need to make to, these other operators.
The prices recognised immediately in the income statement.
Under a hedge of at which these services are charged are often regulated and may be a net investment, the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators, and estimates when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or are used in assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.
exercised, or when the hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge Pension obligations relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income BT has a commitment, mainly through the BT Pension Scheme, to statement as part of the profit on disposal when the net investment pay pension benets to approximately 333,000 people over in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge, the approximately 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our current method over the remaining term of the hedged item.
employees, the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time before they are used to fund the pension payments and Share capital the rate at which the future pension payments are discounted.
We Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly use estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The deduction from the proceeds received.
Shares in the parent assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement company, BT Group plc, held by employee share ownership trusts regarding future expectations.
and repurchased treasury shares are recorded in the balance sheet The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2010 and as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
the key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation are disclosed in note 29.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also cables and switching equipment operating for over 10 years requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of and underground ducts being used for decades.
BT also develops applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available products and services provided to our customers and that is also information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in used within the group.
The annual depreciation and amortisation financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when described below.
necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light of technological change, network investment plans including the Long-term customer contracts groups bre roll out programme, prospective economic utilisation Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial and physical condition of the assets concerned.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2009 had no may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract 31 March 2010. will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are recognised immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract disclosed in notes 12 and 13, respectively.
The useful lives applied to will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may the principal categories of assets are disclosed on pages 89 and 90. have to be written down to the extent they are no longer considered BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 93 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income tax In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to provides for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the likely outcome.
The ultimate liability may vary from the amounts liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, settlement.
assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The Accounting standards, interpretations and final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different amendments to published standards from the estimates reected in the financial statements and may adopted in the year ended 31 March 2010 result in the recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
The following new, revised and amended standards and The value of the groups income tax liability is disclosed on the interpretations have been adopted in 2010 and have affected the balance sheet on page 100. amounts reported in these financial statements or have resulted in a change in presentation or disclosure.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, Conditions and Cancellations judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax The adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment assets should be recognised with consideration given to the timing Vesting Conditions and Cancellations has resulted in a change in and level of future taxable income.
the groups accounting policy for share-based payments.
The The carrying value of the groups deferred tax assets and amendment claries that only service and performance conditions liabilities are disclosed in notes 29 and 22, respectively.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into account to determine the Goodwill fair value of the equity instruments granted.
In the case that the The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been award does not vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations condition that is within the control of either the group or the require the use of estimates, including managements expectations counterparty, this must be treated as a cancellation.
Cancellations of future revenue growth, operating costs and profit margins for are treated as accelerated vestings and all remaining future charges each cash generating unit.
are immediately recognised in the income statement with the credit The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in recognised directly in equity.
Prior to the adoption of the performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in amendment to IFRS 2, the monthly savings requirement under the note 12. groups all employee sharesave plans was classied as a vesting condition and any cancellations made by employees prior to the Determination of fair values normal vesting date resulted in the reversal of all charges Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative recognised to date.
financial instruments and certain elements of loans and The amendment to IFRS 2 requires retrospective adoption and borrowings, are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with hence prior period comparatives have been restated resulting in an changes in fair value reected in the income statement.
Fair values increase of 110m in the share-based payment charge for 2009 are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations 2008: nil and a reduction of 1.4p in basic and diluted loss per and in part by using valuation techniques.
There was no impact on net assets and The fair values of financial instruments are disclosed in note 32. cash ow.
There was no material impact on the share-based payment charge in 2010, following the adoption of the amendment.
Providing for doubtful debts BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be IAS 1 Revised introduced some changes in the format and content paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
In addition, the revised standard Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in requires the presentation of a third balance sheet as at 1 April 2008 determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
because the group has applied two new accounting policies These estimates include such factors as the current state of the retrospectively.
economy and particular industry issues.
The adoption of the amendment to IAS 1 Revised arising from The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2007 has also resulted in a note 17. change in accounting policy applied to the classication of derivatives which have not been allocated to a specic hedge Provisions relationship.
Where such derivatives have a maturity of and are As disclosed in note 21, the groups provisions principally relate to expected to be held for more than twelve months after the obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, reporting period, they are now presented as non current assets or restructuring programmes, claims and litigation and regulatory risks.
Prior period balance sheets have been reclassied to be Under our property rationalisation programmes we have on a consistent basis.
The impact of these changes on the balance identied a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are sheet line items is an increase in non current assets as at 31 March being made to sub-let this space, this is not always possible given 2009 of 86m 31 March 2008: 6m and a reduction in current the current regulatory environment.
Estimates have been made of assets as at 31 March 2009 of 86m 31 March 2008: 6m, and a the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising from any reduction in current liabilities as at 31 March 2009 of 284m sub-lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such 31 March 2008: 209m and an increase in non current liabilities shortfall is recognised as a provision.
94 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs prospectively to business combinations entered into on or after the In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which effective date.
the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 April 2009, the group capitalises borrowing costs during the IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial construction phase as part of the cost of that asset.
Previously, the Statements effective 1 April 2010 group immediately recognised all borrowing costs as an expense in IAS 27 Revised, which is applied prospectively, requires the effects the income statement.
The change in accounting policy was due to of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in the adoption of IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs.
The change in equity if there is no overall change in control.
Such transactions will accounting policy has had no material impact on earnings per no longer result in goodwill or gains or losses being recorded.
In 2010, the group capitalised borrowing costs of 3m with 27 Revised also species that when control is lost, any remaining respect to property, plant and equipment under construction note interest should be re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss 13 and software development costs note 12. recorded through the income statement.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective The amendment to IFRS 7 expands the disclosures required in respect 1 April 2010 of fair value financial instruments measurements and liquidity risk.
IFRIC 17 provides guidance on how an entity should measure The group has elected not to provide comparative information for distributions other than cash when it pays dividends to its owners.
these expanded disclosures in 2010, as set out in note 32, in The interpretation requires the dividend payable to be measured at accordance with the transitional relief offered in the amendment.
the fair value of the assets to be distributed, and any difference between the fair value and the book value of the assets is recorded IFRS 8 Operating Segments in the income statement.
IFRS 8 is a new disclosure standard which has not changed the groups reportable segments but has introduced certain new Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and disclosures as set out in note 1.
Measurement: Eligible Hedged items effective 1 April 2010 As part of the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 the IASB This claries two aspects of hedge accounting relating to hedging modied the requirement to disclose total assets for each with options and the identication of ination as a hedged risk.
This disclosure is now required only if a measure of total assets by segment is reported to the chief Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments:  decision maker CODM.
For BT, such a measure is not Classication of Rights Issues effective 1 April 2010 included in the information regularly provided to the CODM.
The This requires an issue to all existing shareholders of rights to acquire amendment to IFRS 8 is effective for accounting periods additional shares to be recognised in equity, regardless of the commencing on or after 1 January 2010.
The amendment was currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
endorsed by the EU on 23 March 2010 and the group has chosen to adopt it early for 2010.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 effective 1 April 2010 These improvements relate to a number of standards including The following new and revised standards and interpretations have changes in presentation, recognition and measurement, also been adopted in these financial statements.
Their adoption has terminology and editorial changes.
It incorporates minor not had any significant impact on the amounts reported.
amendments to a number of standards in areas including operating segments, leases, intangible assets and financial instruments.
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes: IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures effective 1 April 2011 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation: and The revised standard claries the denition of a related party and provides some exemptions for government-related entities.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Accounting standards, interpretations and Requirement effective 1 April 2011 amendments to published standards not This amendment permits a voluntary prepayment of a minimum funding requirement to be recognised as an asset.
yet effective Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups Instruments effective 1 April 2011 accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010 or later This interpretation, which is applied retrospectively, claries the periods, which the group has not adopted early, with the exception accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with of the amendment to IFRS 8 as described above.
Those which are the result that the liability is settled in part or in full by the debtor considered to be relevant to the groups operations, but which are issuing its own equity instrument to the creditor.
not currently expected to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements, are as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 April 2013 IFRS 9 is the first phase of the IASBs three phase project to replace IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations effective 1 April 2010 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It is IFRS 3 Revised revises certain aspects of accounting for business applicable to financial assets and requires classication and combinations.
Revisions include the requirement to expense all measurement in either the amortised cost or the fair value transaction costs and the requirement for all payments to acquire a category.
IFRS 9 is applied prospectively with transitional business to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with arrangements depending on the date of application.
future contingent consideration subsequently re-measured at fair value through the income statement.
IFRS 3 Revised is applied BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 95 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
