FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BT GROUP PLC vi Cash BT Group plc accounting policies Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on i Accounting basis demand.
As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term company refers to BT Group plc.
These separate financial vii Share-based payments statements of the company are presented as required by the The company does not incur a charge for share-based payments.
The separate financial statements have However, the issuance by the company of share options and been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted awards to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
capital contributions to its subsidiaries.
An addition to the The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis companys investment in subsidiaries is recorded with a and under the historical cost convention as modied by the corresponding increase in equity shareholders funds.
The revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
additional capital contribution is determined based on the fair As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the value of options and awards at the date of grant and is recognised companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year The company has adopted the amendment to FRS 20 IFRS 2 ended 31 March 2010 contain a consolidated statement of cash Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations ows.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the with effect from 1 April 2009.
The amendment requires exemption in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its retrospective adjustment and therefore prior period comparatives own cash ow statement.
This has resulted in an increase of 110m in The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the the carrying value of investments in subsidiary undertakings in year ended 31 March 2010 contain related party disclosures.
A corresponding increase to Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the equity shareholders funds representing the additional capital exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose contribution has also been recognised.
transactions with other members of the BT Group.
The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year Other information ended 31 March 2010 contain financial instrument disclosures i Dividends which comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Board recommends that a final dividend in respect of Consequently, the company is exempted from the disclosure the year ended 31 March 2010 of 4.6p will be paid to requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
shareholders on 6 September 2010, taking the full year proposed dividend in respect of the 2010 financial year to 6.9p 2009: ii Investments in subsidiary undertakings 6.5p.
This dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and Annual General Meeting and therefore the liability of reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying approximately 356m 2009: 85m has not been included in value may not be recoverable.
iii Taxation ii Employees Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing The executive directors and the Chairman of BT Group plc were differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance the only employees of the company during 2010.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that relating to qualifying services provided to the companys principal it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, are recharged to that taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can company.
The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
iii Audit fees iv Dividends The audit fee in respect of the parent company was 41,000 Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in 2009: 41,000.
Fees payable to  LLP which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
for non-audit services to the company are not required to be Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final disclosed as they are included within note 31 to the consolidated dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
financial statements of BT Group plc.
v Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Repurchased shares of the company are recorded in the balance sheet as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
146 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
