REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW and likely outcome under long-term contracts: assessing the level of interconnect income with and payments to other Financial review telecommunications operators: making appropriate long-term assumptions in calculating pension liabilities and costs: establishing asset lives of property, plant and equipment and software for Principal accounting policies, critical depreciation and amortisation purposes: calculating current and deferred tax assets and liabilities: making appropriate mediumaccounting estimates and key term assumptions for goodwill impairment reviews: determining judgements the fair values of certain financial instruments: providing for doubtful debts: and estimating the value of provisions.
Details of Summarised group income critical accounting estimates and key judgements are provided in the accounting policies on pages 93 and 94. statement Line of business results Financial results The financial performance of each of the customer-facing lines of business for 2010, 2009 and 2008 is discussed in the Review of the year.
We measure the financial performance of BT Global Services, Financial position and resources BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach on an adjusted basis being revenue, EBITDA and operating profit, all stated before specic items.
For BT Global Services adjusted EBITDA also excludes the Liquidity impact of the contract and financial review charges recognised in 2009.
For further discussion of these items, see pages 54 to 56.
A Funding and capital management reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to group operating profit loss by customer-facing line of business, and for the group, is provided in Segment information, note 1 to the consolidated financial Alternative performance measures statements on page 102.
In the Financial review we discuss the financial results of the group for 2010, 2009 and 2008.
We explain financial performance using a variety of measures, some of which are not dened under IFRS, and are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
These measures are in addition to, and supplement, those prepared in accordance with IFRS.
In particular, in this Financial review, we principally discuss the groups results on an adjusted basis.
The rationale for using adjusted measures is explained on page 55.
Results on an adjusted basis are presented before specic items, the contract and financial review charges recognised within BT Global Services in 2009 and net interest on pensions.
Specic items are analysed and discussed separately in this Financial review on pages 45 and 46.
The other non-GAAP measures we use in this Financial review are underlying revenue, underlying operating costs, underlying capital expenditure, free cash ow and net debt.
Each of these measures is discussed in more detail on pages 54 to 56.
In the Financial review, references to 2010, 2009, and 2008 are to the financial years ended 31 March 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
References to the year and the current year are to the year ended 31 March 2010.
Principal accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and key judgements Our principal accounting policies are set out on pages 87 to 95 of the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These policies, and applicable estimation techniques, have been reviewed by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the preparation of the 2010 consolidated financial statements.
We, in common with virtually all other companies, use estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
The most sensitive estimates affecting our consolidated financial statements are in the areas of assessing the stage of completion BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 41 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
