REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS POLICIES aware of key industry issues and matters affecting the company, Responsible business which make an important contribution to their understanding of We have had in place for over ten years a written statement of BT.
These activities have been carried out on an even-handed basis, business practice The Way We Work.
This covers all our operations related broadly to the major UK political parties electoral strength.
and applies worldwide to all employees, and to all agents and The authority we are requesting at the AGM is not designed to contractors when representing BT, and is available in nine change the above policy.
It will, however, ensure that BT continues languages.
During 2010, we have refreshed and reissued The Way to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act requiring companies to We Work and our policy on Anti-corruption and Bribery to all our obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU people worldwide.
political parties and or political organisations as dened in the We have also issued a new Gifts and Hospitality policy to our 2006 Act.
During 2010, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, employees.
We are committed to high ethical standards and legal British Telecommunications plc, made the following payments compliance in all aspects of our business.
We have measured our totalling 14,952 2009: 17,658 to cover, for example, the cost employee awareness of The Way We Work and the extent to which of hosting brieng meetings with MPs and MEPs about the our employees display ethical behaviour: and we are reviewing our companys activities: Labour Party 5,333: Conservative Party KPIs on ethics to reect our policies.
3,793: Liberal Democrats 3,333: Scottish National Party 2,493.
Through our Sourcing with Human Dignity initiative, we seek to No loans were made to any political party by any company in the ensure that working conditions throughout our supply chain meet BT group.
internationally recognised human rights standards.
We investigate potential social and environmental shortcomings and are Pension funds committed to achieving 100% follow-up within three months for all suppliers identied as highor medium-risk.
During the 2010 BTs two main UK pension arrangements the BTPS and the financial year, we completed 32 on-site assessments 2009: 27.
BT Retirement Saving Scheme BTRSS are not controlled by the The majority of assessments were conducted in China, although we Board but by a separate and independent corporate trustee for the also conducted assessments in Hungary, India, Malaysia, South BTPS and a management committee for the BTRSS.
The trustee of Korea, Tunisia, the UK and the US.
We now employ our own the BTPS looks after the assets of the funds, which are held assessor based in Shanghai, which has enabled us to focus our separately from those of the company.
For BTRSS members, each efforts on suppliers in China.
We work with our suppliers to help member has an individual personal pension secured with an them improve their performance.
In 2010, 86% of our suppliers insurance company Standard Life.
Pension funds assets can be agreed that we work with them to ensure our purchases are made, used only in accordance with their respective rules and for no other delivered, used and disposed of in a socially and environmentally purpose.
The high-level principles in The Way We Work are supported by a Financial statements continuing and comprehensive communications programme and on-line training.
A condential helpline and dedicated e-mail So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant facility are also available to employees who have questions about information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the application of these principles.
The helpline number is also the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to published externally.
BTs Undertakings code of practice It matters have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit forms part of our statement of business practice and is consistent information and to establish that the auditors have been made with it.
We are committed to managing our environmental performance.
A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing BTs environment management system within the UK has been the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors certied to the international standard ISO 14001 since 1999.
The directors statement on going then we have extended our certication to include Belgium, concern is included in Review of the year Financial review on Ireland, Germany and the Netherlands.
BT has its own ISO 14001 page 54. certication and BT Spain is certied.
A Board committee the Committee for Responsible and Takeover Directive disclosure Sustainable Business chaired by Sir Michael Rake and comprising representatives from BT businesses, two non-executive directors Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive by and three independent members oversees our corporate certain provisions of the 2006 Act, we are required to make responsibility, environment and community activities, including additional disclosures.
A number of these disclosures can be found charitable expenditure and the strategy for maximising our elsewhere in this Report as set out below: contribution to society.
More information is available in Review of structure of BTs share capital refer to page 123 including the the year Our corporate responsibility on page 34.
The Report of rights and obligations attaching to the shares refer to pages 161 the Committee for responsible and sustainable business is on to 164 : page 65. restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights refer to pages 161 and 162 : Political donations significant direct or indirect shareholdings refer to page 82 : and Our continuing policy is that no company in the group will make appointment and replacement of directors refer to page 163. contributions in cash or kind to any political party, whether by gift The disclosures which are not covered elsewhere in this Report or loan.
However, the denition of political donations used in the include the following: Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act is very much broader than the BT has two employee share ownership trusts which hold BT sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It may cover shares for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the activities such as making MPs and others in the political world various employee share plans.
The trustee of the BT Group ESIP BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 79 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
