ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Articles of Association Articles The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, a copy of which has been led with the Registrar of Companies.
A holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to be evidenced by share certicates ie in certicated form or held in electronic ie uncerticated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
At the AGM held on 15 July 2009, shareholders voted to adopt new Articles of Association with effect from October 2009, largely to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
Under that Act, the Memorandum of Association serves a more limited role as historical evidence of the formation of the company.
Since October 2009, the provisions in relation to objects in BTs Memorandum are deemed to form part of BTs Articles, and have been deleted from those Articles because of shareholders passing a resolution to this effect at the AGM.
Under the 2006 Act, BTs objects are unrestricted.
a Voting rights Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right to vote at the meeting.
No person is, unless the Board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person appearing to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person has failed to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of the shares.
b Variation of rights Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes can be varied or withdrawn either: i with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his proxy is a quorum.
The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
c Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i divide all or any of its share capital into shares with a smaller nominal value: and ii consolidate and divide all or part of its share capital into shares of a larger nominal value.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
d Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution authorising the directors to make this offer.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong to the company.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 161 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS e Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, with the authority of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of shareholders which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
f Transfer of shares Certicated shares of the company may be transferred in writing either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing to be the holder of the shares transferred until the name of the person to whom the shares are being transferred is entered in the register of members of the company.
The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in certicated form: i which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or ii unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered ofce or any other place the Board decide.
The transfer must have with it the share certicate for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer form is executed by another person on behalf of the person making the transfer, evidence of the authority of that person to do so.
Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using a relevant system as dened in the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerticated share in the circumstances stated in the Regulations.
If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred giving reasons for their decision.
This must be done as soon as possible and no later than two months after the company receives the transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
g Untraced shareholders BT may sell any shares after advertising its intention and waiting for three months if the shares have been in issue for at least ten years, during that period at least three dividends have become payable on them and have not been cashed and BT has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the dividends by transmission.
The net sale proceeds belong to BT, but it must pay those proceeds to the former shareholder or the person entitled to them by transmission if that shareholder, or that other person, asks for them.
h General meetings of shareholders Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The Board can call a general meeting at any time and, under general law, must call one on a shareholders requisition.
At least 21 clear days written notice must be given for every annual general meeting.
For every other general meeting, at least 14 clear days written notice must be given.
The Board can specify in the notice of meeting a time by which a person must be entered on the register of shareholders in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The time specified must not be more than 48 hours before the time xed for the meeting.
i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must give the company an address within the UK to which they may be sent.
j Directors Directors remuneration Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be paid such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding 65,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of the retail prices index as dened by Section 833 2 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for any 12 month period beginning 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or for a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The Board can award extra fees to a director who holds an executive position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves on a Board committee at the request of the Board: or performs any other services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties of a director.
The directors may grant pensions or other benets to, among others, any director or former director or persons connected with them.
However, BT can only provide these benets to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other ofce or executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
162 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Directors votes A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the quorum on a resolution concerning a contract: i in which the director has an interest of which the director is not aware: or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conict of interest: ii in which the director has an interest only because the director is a holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or by reason of any other interest in or through BT: iii which involves the giving of any security, guarantee or indemnity to the director or any other person for money lent or obligations incurred by the director or by any other person at the request of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any of its subsidiary undertakings: or a debt or other obligation which is owed by BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings to that other person if the director has taken responsibility for all or any part of that debt or obligation by giving a guarantee, security or indemnity: iv where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is offering any shares, debentures or other securities for subscription or purchase to which the director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of BT securities: or where the director will be involved in the underwriting or sub-underwriting: v relating to any other company in which the director has an interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position in that company or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or otherwise involved in that company.
These rights do not apply if the director owns one per cent or more of that company or of the voting rights in that company: vi relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or former BT employees or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings which only gives the directors the same benets that are generally given to the employees or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: vii relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability for the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who include directors: viii relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors: ix relating to the funding of expenditure by any director or directors: on defending criminal, civil or regulatory proceedings or actions against the director or the directors: in connection with an application to the court for relief: or on defending the director or the directors in any regulatory investigations: or which enables any director or directors to avoid incurring expenditure as described in this paragraph: and x in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors generally, has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can by passing an ordinary resolution ratify any particular contract carried out in breach of those provisions.
Directors appointment and retirement Under BTs Articles there must be at least two directors, who manage the business of the company.
The shareholders can vary this minimum and or decide a maximum by ordinary resolution.
The Board and the shareholders by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to be elected as a director, either to ll a vacancy or as an additional director.
At every annual general meeting, any director who was elected or last re-elected a director at or before the annual general meeting held in the third year before the current year, must retire by rotation.
Any director appointed by the directors automatically retires at the next following annual general meeting.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
In addition to any power of removal under the 2006 Act, the shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to remove a director, even though his or her time in ofce has not ended.
They can elect a person to replace that director subject to the Articles, by passing an ordinary resolution.
A person so appointed is subject to retirement by rotation when the director replaced would have been due to retire.
Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intra-group among other things, at any time does not exceed 35bn.
These borrowing powers may only be varied by amending the Articles.
k Sinking fund, liability to further calls and change of control BTs shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under the Articles or as a matter of the laws of England and Wales.
No shareholder is currently liable to make additional contributions of capital in respect of BTs ordinary shares in the future.
There are no provisions in the Articles or of corporate legislation in England and Wales that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 163 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
