ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS UK stamp duty A transfer of or an agreement to transfer an ordinary share will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration provided rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also the purchaser who pays UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary share to, or to a nominee for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services or to, or to a nominee or agent of, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty or SDRT of either the amount of the consideration provided or the value of the share issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS assuming it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer documents are executed and always retained outside the UK.
Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares and or ADSs The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not be taken without advice specic to the individuals circumstances.
A lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national as dened in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax unless the tax is not paid.
Limitations affecting security holders There are no government laws, decrees, regulations, or other legislation of the United Kingdom which have a material effect on the import or export of capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for use by the company except as otherwise described in Taxation US Holders.
There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, US.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov Publications BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, compliance, social and environmental performance.
Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs compliance with the Undertakings, are available to shareholders on request and can be accessed at www.
More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available online through our independently veried sustainability report at www.
com betterworld Document Publication date Summary financial statement & Notice of Meeting May Annual Report & Form 20-F May Changing World: Sustained Values May EAB Annual Report May Quarterly results releases July, November, February and May Current Cost Financial Statements September Statement of Business Practice The Way We Work January 2009 For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or, alternatively, contact our Registrars in the UK, at the address on page 167.
Electronic communication Shareholders can now choose to receive their shareholder documents electronically rather than by post.
Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, or by calling the Shareholder Helpline see page 167.
166 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
