FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB United Kingdom opinion As explained in the accounting policies for the consolidated We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BT Group financial statements the group, in addition to complying with its plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Group legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group cash ow Standards Board IASB.
statement, the Group balance sheet, the Accounting policies and In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Union.
In our opinion the information given in the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the consolidated financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated As explained more fully in the Statement of directors financial statements.
responsibilities set out on page 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for Matters on which we are required to report by exception being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and if, in our opinion: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not made: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and we have not received all the information and explanations we only for the companys members as a body in accordance with require for our audit.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where concern: and expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Scope of the audit of the financial statements Combined Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the parent company financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 and assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to on the information in the Report on directors remuneration that is the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and described as having been audited.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: for and on behalf of  LLP give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 31 March 2010 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then London, United Kingdom ended: 12 May 2010 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 85 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
