REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ask questions about BTs activities and prospects.
We also give Relations with shareholders shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially different Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance issue by proposing a separate resolution for each issue.
The proxy votes Director and including, as appropriate, the other executive for and against each resolution, as well as votes withheld, will be directors, hold meetings with BTs institutional shareholders and counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the prospective shareholders to discuss BTs strategy, financial meeting.
As at the 2009 AGM, votes on all matters at the 2010 AGM, performance and prospects.
The Chairman also meets with major except procedural issues, will be taken on a poll.
Every vote cast, shareholders, at their request, during the year.
This may also whether in person or by proxy at the meeting will be counted.
The include meetings to discuss overall remuneration policies and outcome of voting on the resolutions will be posted on our website as governance issues.
All non-executive directors have an invitation to soon as possible after the meeting.
It is our policy for all directors to attend investors meetings if they wish and during the year the attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst, because of ill health or other Senior Independent Director has held meetings with major pressing reasons, this may not always be possible, in normal institutional shareholders about governance and remuneration circumstances this means that the chairmen of the Audit, Nominating policy matters.
Contact with institutional shareholders and with and Remuneration committees are at the AGM and are available to financial analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by written answer relevant questions.
All the directors attended the 2009 AGM.
guidelines to ensure the protection of inside information that has The resolutions to be proposed at the 2010 AGM at the BT not already been made generally available to the market.
The Convention Centre, Liverpool on 22 July, together with explanatory directors are provided with reports and other written briengs on notes, appear in the separate Summary financial statement & notice of shareholders and analysts views and are regularly informed by the meeting 2010 which is sent to all shareholders who have requested a Company Secretary about the holdings of the principal copy.
Copies of this annual report are sent only to shareholders who shareholders.
The Company Secretary also surveys individual have requested or request a copy.
All shareholders are notied of the shareholders about the quality of our shareholder communications publication of these documents which are sent out in the most costand a survey of BTs institutional shareholders and analysts has effective way.
We aim to give as much notice of our AGM as possible recently been carried out by an independent third party.
and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by our articles of Established procedures ensure the timely release of inside association.
In practice, these documents are being sent to information and the publication of financial results and regulatory shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
All external announcements are also reviewed Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as BTs for accuracy and compliance requirements by a committee of senior auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will executives, the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the also be proposed at the AGM.
The presentation made by the Chairman and the Chief Executive will be broadcast live on the internet at www.
com btagm2010 and will be available after the AGM.
Substantial shareholdings At 12 May 2010, BT had received notications, under the Authority to purchase shares Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, in respect of the following holdings of shares The authority given at last years AGM of the company held on 15 July representing percentage holdings of BTs total voting rights as 2009 for BT to purchase in the market 774m of its shares, representing shown: 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 14 October 2010.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority at the AGM.
Shares % of total voting rights During the 2010 financial year, 8m treasury shares were transferred to meet BTs obligations under our employee share plans.
At 12 May Invesco Limited 780,354,826 10.06 2010 a total of 397m shares were retained as treasury shares.
All the BlackRock Inc 381,255,769 4.92 shares were purchased in an on-market programme of buying back BT Barclays PLC 360,935,363 4.65 shares, started in November 2003.
The programme was suspended AXA S. A.
Legal & General Group PLC 309,597,603 3.99 Norges Bank 240,354,001 3.09 By order of the Board Andrew Parker AGM resolutions We are continuing our policy that shareholders vote on the annual SECRETARY report at the AGM.
Shareholders will also again be asked to vote 12 May 2010 separately on the Report on directors remuneration.
It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to 82 B BT GR T GROUP PL OUP PLC C ANNU ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT & T & FORM FORM 20-F 20-F
