FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Composition of the group Accounting policies The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are detailed on page 149. i Basis of preparation and presentation of the financial statements ii Basis of consolidation Compliance with applicable law and IFRS The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in of BT Group plc the company and its subsidiaries, and they accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS incorporate its share of the results of joint ventures and associates Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and using the equity method of accounting.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS known as the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Accounting convention A joint venture is an entity that is jointly controlled by two or The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under more entities.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of the historical cost convention, modied for the revaluation of control over an economic activity, and exists only when the certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Presentation of specic items An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint identify trading results before significant one-off or unusual items venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the termed specic items.
This is consistent with the way that financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not financial performance is measured by management and reported control or joint control over those policies.
to the Board and the Operating Committee and assists in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
year are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements way is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the performance as specic items are significant one-off or unusual in accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
All nature and have little predictive value.
Furthermore, the group intra group transactions, balances, income and expenses are considers a columnar presentation to be appropriate, as it improves eliminated on consolidation.
the clarity of the presentation and is consistent with the way that Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially financial performance is measured by management and reported to recognised at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of the Board and the Operating Committee.
Specic items may not be the groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes the comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
groups share of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in Items which have been considered to be significant one-off or the value of individual assets.
The income statement reects the unusual in nature include disposals of businesses and investments, groups share of the results of operations after tax of the associate business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, or joint venture.
property rationalisation programmes and the settlement of multiple tax years in a single settlement.
Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 5. iii Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or Critical accounting estimates and key judgements receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of The preparation of financial statements in conformity with discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services generally accepted accounting principles requires management to and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
transaction, it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where Services assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services financial statements are disclosed on pages 93 and 94 in Critical is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the accounting estimates and key judgements.
rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from Implementation of new accounting standards calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the groups With effect from 1 April 2009, the group adopted the amendment network.
to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for Cancellations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IAS 1 Revised access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue costs, minor amendments to a number of other accounting arising from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between standards and several new interpretations.
The adoption of the other telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of amendment to IFRS 2 and IAS 1 Revised has resulted in the transit across the groups network.
Further details are provided on pages 94 and 95.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 87 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
