Audit opinion parent Company financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Charter Opinion on other matter International plc In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for We have audited the accompanying parent Company financial the financial year for which the financial statements are statements of Charter International plc for the year ended prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
31 December 2010 which comprise the Company profit and loss account, Company balance sheet and the related Matters on which we are required to report by exception notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report Accounting Standards.
to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors proper accounting records have not been kept by the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities parent Company: or Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give the parent Company financial statements are not in a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express agreement with the accounting records: or an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and we have not received all the information and explanations Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing we require for our audit.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with of Charter International plc for the year ended 31 December Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no 2010. other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Graham McGregor person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it For and on behalf of  LLP may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Chartered Accountants in writing.
London 17 February 2011 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Notes: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give a The maintenance and integrity of the Charter International reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the the financial statements since they were initially presented reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the on the website.
Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
b Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Opinion on financial statements legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Charter International plc 108 Annual Report 2010
