Principal interests in Group undertakings Subsidiary undertakings Group interest in equity Country of capital incorporation per cent Nature of business Welding, cutting and automation Europe ESAB AB Sweden 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Vamberk s. r. o. Czech Republic 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB GmbH Germany 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Cutting Systems GmbH Germany 100 Oxy-fuel, plasma, laser and water jet cutting ESAB Mor Kft Hungary 100 Welding consumables ESAB Sp.
z o. o. Poland 100 Welding consumables 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Saldatura S. p. A. Italy OOO ESAB Russia 100 Welding consumables and equipment 51 Welding consumables Zao ESAB Svel Russia ESAB Europe AG Switzerland 100 Welding consumables North America iii 100 Welding consumables and equipment The ESAB Group Inc. USA South America ESAB Industria e Comercio Ltda Brazil 100 Welding consumables and equipment 100 Welding consumables and equipment Eutectic do Brasil Ltda Brazil Conarco Alambres y Soldaduras S. A. Argentina 100 Welding consumables and equipment China ESAB Welding and Cutting Products Shanghai Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Welding Products Jiangsu Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables and equipment 100 Cutting and automation ESAB Cutting and Welding Automation Shanghai Co Limited China ESAB Welding Products Weihai Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables Asia Pacic 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Asia Pacic Pte Limited Singapore Romar Positioning Equipment International Pte Limited Singapore 100 Welding equipment 56 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB India Limited India United Arab Emirates ESAB Middle East LLC United Arab Emirates 100 Welding consumables and equipment 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Middle East FZE United Arab Emirates Air and gas handling Europe Howden UK Limited Northern Ireland 100 Power, industrial fans and heat exchangers 100 Industrial fans Howden France France Howden BC Compressors France 100 Piston and diaphragm compressors Howden Netherlands BV Netherlands 100 Industrial fans Howden Turbowerke GmbH Germany 100 Industrial fans Howden Ventilatoren GmbH Germany 100 Power and industrial fans Howden Denmark A S Denmark 100 Power and industrial fans Howden Spain SL Spain 100 Heat exchangers 100 Screw compressors Howden Compressors Limited Scotland James Howden & Company Limited trading as Howden Process Compressors Scotland 100 Screw compressor packages and blowers North America iii Howden North America Inc. USA 100 Power and industrial fans South America Howden South America Ventiladores e Compressores iv Industria e Comercio Ltda Brazil 100 Industrial fans and heat exchangers Asia Pacic 70 Power and industrial fans, heat exchangers, Howden Hua Engineering Co Limited China compressors & blowers Howden Australia Pty Limited Australia 100 Power and industrial fans and heat exchangers South Africa Howden Africa Holdings Limited South Africa 55 Power and industrial fans, heat exchangers, gas cleaning equipment, pumps and cooling systems Associates and joint ventures v ESAB SeAH Corporation South Korea 50 Welding consumables i The principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
ii The Group undertakings above are all held by subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
iii The ESAB Group Inc. and Howden North America Inc. formerly Howden Buffalo Inc. are both wholly-owned subsidiaries of Anderson Group Inc. the holding company of the Groups North America businesses.
iv Aeolus Industria e Comercio Ltda merged into Howden South America Ventiladores e Compressores Industria e Comercio Ltda on 30 December 2010. v ESAB SeAH Corporation has only one class of capital.
Charter International plc 106 Annual Report 2010
