Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2010 14.
VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY continued Valuation methodology C&W have adopted different approaches for the valuation of the leasehold and freehold assets as follows: Freehold and long leasehold The valuation is based on a discounted cash flow of the net operating income over a ten year period and notional sale of the asset at the end of the tenth year.
Net operating income is based on projected revenue received less projected operating costs together with a central administration charge of 6% of the estimated annual revenue subject to a cap and a collar.
The initial net operating income is calculated by estimating the net operating income in the first 12 months following the valuation date.
The net operating income in future years is calculated assuming straight-line absorption from day one actual occupancy to an estimated stabilised mature occupancy level.
In the valuation the assumed stabilised occupancy level for the 51 open stores both freeholds and leaseholds at 31 March 2010 averages 84.20% 2009: 85.04%.
The projected revenues and costs have been adjusted for estimated cost inflation and revenue growth.
The average time assumed for the stores to trade at their maturity levels across the portfolio is 42 months 2009: 40 months : for the 32 same stores, the period to maturity is 37 months 2009: 34 months.
C. The capitalisation rates applied to existing and future net cash flow have been estimated by reference to underlying yields for industrial and retail warehouse property, yields for other trading property types such as student housing and hotels, bank base rates, ten year money rates, inflation and the available evidence of transactions in the sector.
The valuation included in the accounts assumes rental growth in future periods.
If an assumption of no rental growth is applied to the external valuation, the stabilised yield for the 51 stores pre administration expenses is 8.44% 2009: 8.55%.
D. The future net cash flow projections including revenue growth and cost inflation have been discounted at a rate that reflects the risk associated with each asset.
The weighted average annual discount rate adopted for both freeholds and leaseholds is 11.35% 2009: 11.41%.
E. Purchasers costs of 5.75% see below have been assumed initially and sale plus purchasers costs totalling 6.75% are assumed on the notional sales in the tenth year in relation to the freehold stores.
Short leasehold The same methodology has been used as for freeholds, except that no sale of the assets in the tenth year is assumed but the discounted cash flow is extended to the expiry of the lease.
The average unexpired term of the Groups seven short leasehold properties is 15.8 years March 2009: seven short leaseholds 16.8 years.
Investment properties under construction C&W have valued the stores in development adopting the same methodology as set out above but on the basis of the cash flow projection expected for the store at opening after allowing for the outstanding costs to take each scheme from its current state to completion and full fit out.
C&W have allowed for holding costs and construction contingency, as appropriate.
For the schemes where planning consent has not yet been granted, C&W have reflected the planning risk in their valuation.
Prudent lotting C&W have assessed the value of each property individually.
However, with regard to ten recently opened stores which are loss making or have low cashflow three wholly owned and seven in the Partnership 2009: six stores, three wholly owned and three in the Partnership C&W have prepared their valuation on the assumption that were these properties to be brought to the market then they would be lotted or grouped for sale with other more mature assets of a similar type owned by the Company in such a manner as would most likely be adopted in the case of an actual sale of the interests valued.
This lotting assumption has been made in order to alleviate the issue of negative or low short term cash flow.
C&W have not assumed that the entire portfolio of properties owned by the Group would be sold as a single lot and the value for the whole portfolio in the context of a sale as a single lot may differ significantly from the aggregate of the individual values for each property in the portfolio, reflecting prudent lotting as described above.
Valuation assumption for purchasers costs The Groups investment property assets have been valued for the purposes of the financial statements after deducting notional purchasers cost of 5.75% of gross value, as if they were sold directly as property assets.
The valuation is an asset valuation which is entirely linked to the operating performance of the business.
They would have to be sold with the benefit of operational contracts, employment contracts and customer contracts, which would be very difficult to achieve except in a corporate structure.
This approach follows the logic of the valuation methodology in that the valuation is based on a capitalisation of the net operating income after allowing a deduction for operational cost and an allowance for central administration costs.
Sale in a corporate structure would result in a reduction in the assumed Stamp Duty Land Tax but an increase in other transaction costs reflecting additional due diligence resulting in a reduced notional purchasers cost of 2.75% of gross value.
All the significant sized transactions that have been concluded in the UK in recent years were completed in a corporate structure.
The Group therefore instructed C&W to carry out a Red Book valuation on the above basis, and this results in a higher property valuation at 31 March 2010 of 831,170,000 35,640,000 higher than the value recorded in the financial statements.
The valuations in Big Yellow Limited Partnership are 4,460,000 higher than the value recorded in the financial statements, of which the Groups share is 1,487,000.
The sum of these is 37,127,000 and translates to 28.3 pence per share.
We have included this revised valuation in the adjusted diluted net asset calculation see note 12.
