Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the Combined Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee The Company has established a Remuneration Committee which is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The members of the Committee at the year end were Tim Clark, Mark Richardson and Jonathan Short.
Tim Clark and Mark Richardson are both independent Non-Executive Directors, hence the Committee has a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Tim Clark.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-today involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
In determining the Directors remuneration, the Committee consulted the Executive Chairman Nicholas Vetch about his proposals.
During the year the Committee also received benchmarking advice on structuring and salary levels of the Directors remuneration packages from  LLP and Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP are also the Companys external auditors.
Remuneration Policy Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the high calibre required and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
Individual remuneration packages are structured to align rewards with the performance of the Company and the interests of the shareholders.
The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and the determination of their annual remuneration package is undertaken by the Committee in consultation with the Executive Chairman, save for discussions on his remuneration package.
No Director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the full Board.
The benchmarking advice received by the Committee concluded that overall remuneration of the Executive Directors was at the lower end of market practice and in some areas significantly behind the market.
The report highlighted that base salaries were between 30% and 50% below the market median: the 2008 long term incentive awards were around 40% below market median and the maximum annual bonus potential and pension provision were both around 30% below the market.
The actual bonus payout to the Executive Directors has been around 75% below the market albeit in 2009 the Executive Directors waived their bonus.
The Committee has therefore made some changes to the structure of the overall remuneration package which was approved at the Groups Annual General Meeting in July 2009.
There are currently five main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management: Element Purpose Salary To provide competitive fixed remuneration that will attract and retain key employees and reflect their experience and position in the Company.
Annual head office bonus Incentivises achievement of annual objectives which support the short to medium term strategy of the Company and applies across the head office team.
Long term share incentives Long Term Incentive Plan incentivises Executives to achieve superior returns to shareholders over a three year period.
Retain key individuals and align interests with shareholders.
Long term bonus To ensure that the total remuneration package is more competitive and supports the Companys long term performance plan strategy.
Incentivises and locks-in Executives and aligns interests with shareholders.
Pension Provide competitive post retirement benefits.
Each component of Executive remuneration is explained below.
Basic salary Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year and when an individual changes position or responsibility.
Appropriate salary levels are set by reference to the performance, experience and responsibilities of each individual concerned and having regard to the prevailing market conditions.
Executive Directors contracts of service which include details of remuneration will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Salaries are reviewed annually with changes taking effect on 1 April each year, taking into account individual performance, market data and levels of increases applicable to other employees in the Company.
The Directors did not receive an increase to their basic salary for the year commencing 1 April 2009, due to the prevailing economic conditions.
