Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2010 14.
The valuation has been carried out in accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards published by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors the Red Book.
The valuation of each of the investment properties and the investment properties under construction has been prepared on the basis of Market Value as a fully equipped operational entity, having regard to trading potential.
The valuation has been provided for accounts purposes and as such, is a Regulated Purpose Valuation as defined in the Red Book.
In compliance with the disclosure requirements of the Red Book, C&W have confirmed that: The members of the RICS who have been the signatories to the valuations provided to the Group for the same purposes as this valuation have done so since September 2004.
C&W have been carrying out this bi-annual valuation for the same purposes as this valuation on behalf of the Group since September 2004.
C&W do not provide other significant professional or agency services to the Group.
In relation to the preceding financial year of C&W, the proportion of the total fees payable by the Group to the total fee income of the firm is less than 5%.
The fee payable to C&W is a fixed amount per store, and is not contingent on the appraised value.
Market uncertainty C&Ws valuation report comments on valuation uncertainty resulting from the recent global banking crisis coupled with the economic downturn, which have caused a low number of transactions in the market for self storage property.
C&W note that, although there were a number of self storage transactions in 2007, the only two significant transactions since 2007 are the sale of a 51% share in Shurgard Europe which was announced in January 2008 and completed on 31 March 2008 and the sale of the former Keepsafe portfolio by Macquarie to Alligator Self Storage which was completed in January 2010.
C&W observe that in order to provide a rational opinion of value at the present time it is necessary to assume that the self storage sector will continue to perform in a way not greatly different from that being anticipated prior to the credit crunch, however they have reflected negative sentiment in their capitalisation rates and they have reflected current trading conditions in their cash flow projections for each property.
C&W state that there is therefore greater uncertainty attached to their opinion of value than would be anticipated during more active market conditions.
