Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued 4.
Share incentives continued The extent to which awards granted under the LTIP vest and become exercisable is determined by reference to the Companys total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group.
The level of vesting is set out below: Total Shareholder Return Performance Level Amount of Award Vesting % Upper Quartile Full vesting 100% Median to Upper Quartile Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis 0 to 100% Median and below Nil The LTIP vesting is also subject to the adjusted earnings per share EPS growth over three years exceeding inflation.
This EPS underpin target must be satisfied before any part of the LTIP award can vest.
For awards made in 2005, 2006 and 2007 the Committee selected the companies in the FTSE All Share Index as the comparator group because they enable the Companys performance to be compared to a broad index that reflects the corporate performance of UK companies.
The Committee reviewed the relevance of this comparator group in 2008.
It was noted that the performance of the index was heavily influenced by the financial, energy and pharmaceutical sectors and as a result had less relevance to the financial performance of the Company.
The Committee therefore concluded that the performance of companies in the FTSE Real Estate Index was a more relevant benchmark of the Companys performance.
As a result the LTIP awards made in 2008 and 2009 are, and the proposed awards for 2010 will be, based on the performance of the Company compared to companies in the FTSE Real Estate Index.
The Committee employs a third party to report to it on whether the performance targets in respect of TSR have been met.
The Committee has considered these reports on the performance of the 2005 and 2006 LTIP option grants and determined that the criteria have been met, and the awards have therefore vested.
In 2005 the Companys TSR performance was 75th out of 574 companies, and in 2006 the Companys TSR performance was 96th out of 499 companies.
The 2007 awards will be tested in July 2010 on the third anniversary of their award.
The Committee reserves the right to vary the Performance Condition for future grants provided that in its reasonable judgment the new targets are no less challenging in the light of the Companys business circumstances and its internal forecasts.
The Committee has been advised that zero vesting for median performance is below the market average but there are currently no plans to change this.
Sharesave Scheme The Groups Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK employees including Directors with a minimum of six months service and meets UK HMRC approval requirements, thus enabling all eligible employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company in a tax efficient manner.
The Long Term Bonus Performance Plan Background The Committee believes a key strength of the Executive team has been its ability to react quickly to changing market conditions, revising business strategy and direction as needed.
This can be illustrated by the Pramerica joint venture at the end of 2007 and the successful early refinancing in 2008 of facilities due to expire in 2010.
The Committee continues to believe it has the right Executive team in place to take the business forward but is concerned to ensure that they remain incentivised and locked in to the business through a competitive total remuneration package.
The Committee therefore concluded that the best way to achieve this, whilst as far as possible minimising any additional cash cost to the Group was to introduce a new performance based plan, the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan the Plan or the LTBPP.
The Committee instructed  LLP to work with it to implement the Plan.
Shareholders approved the Plan at the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2009.
Mechanics 1 Summary The Plan is structured as a share plan and operates in a similar way to a deferred bonus.
Awards are subject to performance over a three year period during which the value accruing to participants can be clawed back.
Participants will be partly or wholly rewarded in shares with any shortfall delivered in cash.
Cash shortfall payments under the Plan cannot exceed 50% of any total payout due and at least 50% of any payout will be in shares and will be subject to a further lock in.
Further detail is provided below.
2 Nature of interests and performance conditions Under the Plan, the Executive Directors have been awarded restricted interests in ordinary shares in the Company.
The interest entitles a participant to benefit from the growth in the value if any of a number of ordinary shares in the Company over which the interest is acquired.
The participants interest is capped at growth in value of 2.00 per share measured from the share price at the date of award which was 368.8 pence.
Vesting of interests will be subject to performance conditions.
The Committee sets a range of performance conditions each year, both financial and nonfinancial.
Total shareholder return will not be used: this will remain the measure for LTIP awards.
The Committee annually identifies suitable indicators of future performance against which Executive Directors should be measured.
The Committee then sets the performance targets for the Plan, on the basis of business needs and priorities it has identified.
At the end of each year, the Committee indicates the extent to which interests have provisionally vested under the Plan on the basis of the performance targets which have been set.
The Committee will have the right to adjust targets and, where appropriate, introduce new targets if business needs change.
