Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 119 Glossary Adjusted, diluted net asset value per share Net rental income NAV per share adjusted to exclude the fair value of derivative instruments and The Groups share of net rents receivable as shown in the income statement, related tax and deferred tax on investment and development property and to having taken due account of non-recoverable charges, bad debt provisions and include any unrecognised post tax surplus on trading properties.
adjustments to comply with IFRS including those regarding tenant lease incentives.
Annual property income Nominal equivalent yield The Groups share of passing rent plus the external valuers estimate of annual excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews and Effective annual yield to a purchaser from the assets individually at market value sundry income such as that from car parks and mall commercialisation.
after taking account of notional acquisition costs assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, reflecting estimated rental values ERV but disregarding Debt to assets ratio potential changes in market rents.
Net external debt divided by the balance sheet value of investment and Occupancy development property plus trading property.
The passing rent of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage of the Diluted figures passing rent of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of dilutive potential shares development and recently completed properties and treating units let to tenants issuable under convertible bonds and employee incentive arrangements.
Earnings per share Passing rent Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders of CSC Group PLC The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the balance sheet divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in respect of rent free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as EPRA finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and does not include European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews or Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real estate sundry income such as from car parks etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect companies in Europe clearer, more transparent and comparable.
of tenants in administration are excluded.
ERV estimated rental value Property Income Distribution PID The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current annual market A dividend, generally subject to UK withholding tax at the basic rate of income rent of all lettable space net of any non-recoverable charges, before bad debt tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay to its shareholders from its qualifying rental provision and adjustments required under IFRS regarding tenant lease profits.
Certain classes of shareholder may qualify to receive a PID gross incentives.
shareholders should refer to www.
co. uk for further information.
The Group can also pay non-PID dividends which are not subject Exceptional items to UK withholding tax.
Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full Real Estate Investment Trust REIT understanding of the Groups financial performance.
A tax regime which exempts from corporation tax the rental profits and capital gains of the REITs qualifying investment property activities.
In the Initial yield to the Group UK, the regime must be elected into and the REIT must meet certain ongoing Annualised net rent as net initial yield EPRA on investment properties qualifications, including the requirement to distribute at least 90 per cent of expressed as a percentage of the net market value, representing the yield that qualifying rental profits to shareholders.
The Group elected for REIT status with would be foregone by the Group were the asset to be sold.
Interest cover Tenant or lease incentives Underlying operating profit excluding trading property related items divided by Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically incentives are the net finance cost excluding the change in fair value of derivatives, exceptional in the form of an initial rent free period and or a cash contribution to fit-out the finance costs and amortisation of compound financial instruments.
Under IFRS the value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest rate swap A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange interest rate Topped-up NIY EPRA obligations for a predetermined period.
These are used by the Group to convert Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent free periods and other floating rate debt to fixed rates.
IPD Total financial return Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent benchmark of Change in net asset value per share plus dividends per share paid in the period property returns.
expressed as a percentage of opening net asset value per share.
Like-for-like properties Trading property Investment properties which have been owned throughout both periods without Property held for trading purposes rather than to earn rentals or for capital significant capital expenditure in either period, so both income and capital can appreciation and shown as current assets in the balance sheet.
be compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous reporting period end Underlying earnings per share EPS but not throughout the prior period.
Earnings per share adjusted to exclude valuation movements, exceptional items and related tax.
Loan-to-value LTV LTV is the ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an investment Underlying figures property.
Amounts described as underlying exclude valuation movements, exceptional items and related tax.
Net asset value NAV per share Net assets attributable to equity shareholders of CSC Group PLC divided by the Vacancy rate EPRA number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
The ERV of vacant space divided by total ERV.
Net external debt Yield shift Net debt after removing the Metrocentre compound financial instrument.
A movement usually expressed in basis points in the nominal equivalent yield of a property asset.
Net initial yield EPRA Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls, empty rates and merchant association contribution on investment properties expressed as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net initial yield.
