120 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Dividends The Directors of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC have proposed PID Special note: a final dividend per ordinary share ISIN GB0006834344 of The following applies to the PID element only of the 2010 Final 10.0 pence 2009 11.5 pence to bring the total dividend per Dividend: ordinary share for the year to 15.0 pence 2009 16.5 pence.
UK shareholders: For those who are eligible for exemption from the This dividend will be partly paid as a Property Income Distribution 20 per cent withholding tax and have not previously registered for PID with a gross value of 5 pence per share and partly paid as a exemption, an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC Tax Exemption non-PID with a value of 5 pence per share.
The PID element will be Declaration is available for download from the Investors section of subject to deduction of a 20 per cent withholding tax unless the Capital Shopping Centres Group website www.
 apply please refer to the Special note below.
co. uk, or on request to our UK registrars, Capita Registrars.
PID element will be treated as an ordinary UK company dividend.
Validly completed forms must be received by Capita Registrars no later than the Record Date, Friday 3 June 2011, otherwise the dividend will The following are the salient dates for the payment of the proposed be paid after deduction of tax.
final dividend: South African and other non-UK shareholders: South African Thursday 19 May 2011 shareholders may apply to HMRC after payment of the dividend for a Sterling Rand exchange rate struck refund of the difference between the 20 per cent withholding tax and the UK South African double taxation treaty rate of 15 per cent.
Other Friday 20 May 2011 non-UK shareholders may be able to make similar claims.
Refund Sterling Rand exchange rate and dividend amount in SA currency application forms for all non-UK shareholders are available for announced download from the Investors section of the Capital Shopping Centres Monday 30 May 2011 Group website www.
co. uk, or on request to Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the Johannesburg Stock our SA registrars, Computershare, or HMRC.
Refunds are not Exchange claimable from Capital Shopping Centres Group, the South African Revenue Service or other national authorities, only from the UKs Wednesday 1 June 2011 HMRC.
Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange Additional information on PIDs can be found at www.
co. uk investors shareholder info reit.
Record date for 2010 final dividend in London and Johannesburg The above does not constitute advice and shareholders should seek Tuesday 21 June 2011 their own professional guidance.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Dividend payment day for shareholders does not accept liability for any loss suffered arising from reliance on South African shareholders should note that, in accordance with the the above.
requirements of State, the last day to trade cum-dividend will be Friday 27 May 2011 and that no dematerialisation or rematerialisation of shares will be possible from Monday 30 May to Friday 3 June 2011 inclusive.
No transfers between the UK and South African registers may take place from Thursday 19 May to Sunday 5 June 2011 inclusive.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Registrars Web-based enquiry service for shareholders All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including noti cation Shareholders registered in the UK can go to www.
of change of address, queries regarding loss of a share certi cate and com to obtain details of their shareholdings and dividends.
dividend payments should be addressed to: The shareholders surname, Investor Code found on any correspondence from registrars and postcode are required to use this service.
Shareholders may also use this service to For shareholders registered in the UK: amend or change their address and dividend mandate details.
Capita Registrars Shareholders registered in South Africa can go to www-uk.
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU computershare.
com investor to obtain details of their shareholdings.
Telephone within UK 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute Shareholders will need to follow a registering process in order to access plus network extras: lines are open 8.30 am 5.30 pm such information.
Unfortunately, due to South African legal Monday Friday requirements, shareholders may not update records, but will be able 44 20 8639 3399 outside UK toview their entire holding of shares globally.
Please note that the Facsimile 020 8639 2342 Computershare company code for Capital Shopping Centres Group Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Share dealing For shareholders registered in South Africa: Existing UK shareholders may trade Capital Shopping Centres Group Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd PLC shares through Capita Share Dealing Services who provide an 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 easyto use, real-time online, telephone and postal dealing service.
com Postal address: Telephone within UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per minute plus PO Box 61051 network extras: lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm Monday Friday Marshalltown 2107, South Africa Ireland Lo-call 1 890 946 375 Telephone 27 11 370 5000 outside UK 44 20 3367 2686 Facsimile 27 11 688 5221 Existing South African shareholders whose shares are held in electronic www-uk.
com format through Computershare CSDP, may trade Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC shares through Computershares low cost Payment of dividends telephone share dealing service on 0861 100 633 SA calls only.
Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account should complete a mandate form available Electronic communication from the appropriate registrars.
The company supplies information such as the Annual and Interim Report via its website to shareholders who have consented to such Share price information communication.
Shareholders will be noti ed by email or post when newinformation is available on the website.
The latest information on the Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC share price is available on the website www.
co. uk Shareholders can at any time revoke a previous instruction in order to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
UK shareholders may register to receive email alerts by logging on tothewebsite of the UK Registrars www.
com andfollowing the instructions given to register an email address.
Onceregistered, shareholders are sent a Notice of Availability emailhighlighting that the Annual Report, Interim Report or other information is available for viewing on the website.
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the belief or current expectations of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, its Directors and other members of its senior management about Capital Shopping Centres Group PLCs businesses, financial performance and results of operations.
Generally, words such as, but not limited to, may, could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, believe, plan, seek, continue or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC and are dif cult to predict, that may cause actual results, performance or developments to differ materially from any future results, performance or developments expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable law, Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to re ect any change in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLCs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Any information contained in this report on the price at which shares or other securities in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
co. uk Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT
