Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 List of definitions Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Interest cover ratio Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares Gross property income, excluding surrender premiums, less ground in issue at the balance sheet date.
rent divided by interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable.
This is similar to that used in the Groups bank covenants.
Earnings earnings per share EPS Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to equity Loan-to-value ratio LTV shareholders and are divided by the weighted average number of The nominal value of borrowed funds divided by the fair value of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year to arrive at earnings investment property.
This is equivalent to the loan-to-value per share.
calculations used in the Groups bank covenants.
Diluted earnings per share Ground rent Earnings per share adjusted to include the dilutive effects of potential The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
Under shares issuable under the Groups share option schemes.
However, IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the cost a loss per share cannot be reduced by dilution in accordance with allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
Building Research Establishment Environmental European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Assessment Method BREEAM A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes The BREEAM rating assesses the operational and the embodied leading property companies, investors and consultants who environmental impacts of individual buildings.
The ratings are Pass, strive to establish best practices in accounting, reporting Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
and corporate governance and to provide high-quality Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous information to investors.
In October 2010, EPRA published Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR its Best Practices Recommendations which can be found These regulations place a legal duty on employers to report workat www.
This includes related deaths, major injuries or over-three-day injuries, work related guidelines to be used for the calculations of the following diseases and dangerous occurrences near miss accidents to the performance measures: Health and Safety Executive.
Adjusted net asset value per share: IPD Central London Offices Index Adjusted earnings per share: An index, compiled by Investment Property Databank Limited, of the central and inner London offices in their quarterly valued universe.
Net initial yield: Capital return Topped up net initial yield: and The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the valuation at the beginning Vacancy rate of the year adjusted for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
Derwent London has adopted the EPRA methodology for all of these Total return measures in 2010.
Recurring profit before tax and recurring earnings The movement in adjusted net asset value per share between the per share see below are also included in this report and accounts to beginning and the end of each financial period plus the dividend per provide comparability with the measures used in 2009.
In addition, in share paid during the period expressed as a percentage of the accordance with EPRA guidelines, we have made Company specific adjusted net asset value per share at the beginning of the year.
adjustments to adjusted profit and adjusted earnings per share to arrive at the underlying positions see below.
Total property return The annual capital appreciation, net of capital expenditure, plus the Recurring profit before taxation net annual rental income received, expressed as a percentage of Profit before tax excluding the revaluation movement in investment capital employed property value at the beginning of the year plus properties and financial instruments and the profit or loss on disposal capital expenditure.
Total shareholder return Recurring earnings per share The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Earnings per share adjusted to exclude the after tax effect of nonStock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period, recurring items, profits or losses on sales of properties and expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning investments, and the fair value adjustments to the carrying value of of the year.
Rent roll Underlying earnings per share The annualised contracted rental income, net of ground rents.
EPRA earnings per share adjusted for items which are excluded to show the underlying trend.
In 2010, recurring earnings per share has True equivalent yield been adjusted for rates credits and the foreign exchange movement.
The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers Property income distribution PID estimate rental value and such items as voids and expenditures, Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property rental equates to the valuation having taken into account notional business under the REIT regulations.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Non PID Reversion Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
The reversion is the difference between the rent roll of a property or Net debt portfolio and the rental value as estimated by the Groups external Borrowings plus bank overdraft less cash and cash equivalents.
The reversion is derived from contractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and the letting of vacant space.
Balance sheet gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
Underlying portfolio Properties that have been held for the whole of the financial period.
