Annual review Governance Financials 81 1 Accounting policies continued Pension benefits The Group contributes to a defined benefit pension plan which is funded with assets held separately from those of the Group.
The full value of the net assets or liabilities of the pension fund is brought on to the balance sheet at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to reserves: all other movements are taken to the income statement.
Capitalisation of interest Interest associated with direct expenditure on investment properties under development is capitalised.
Direct expenditure includes the purchase cost of a site if it has been purchased with the specific intention to redevelop, but does not include the original book cost of a site previously held as an investment property.
Interest is capitalised from the start of the development work until the date of practical completion.
The rate used is the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of borrowings or, if appropriate, the rate on specific associated borrowings.
Financial instruments: i Derivatives The Groups derivatives are measured at fair value in the balance sheet.
To the extent that a derivative provides an effective cash flow hedge against the Groups underlying exposure the movements in the fair value of the hedge are taken to equity.
To the extent that the derivative does not effectively hedge the underlying exposure the movement in the fair value of the hedge is taken to the income statement.
ii Borrowings The Groups borrowings in the form of its debentures and bank loans are recognised initially at fair value, after taking account of any discount or premium on issue and attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently borrowings are held at amortised cost, with any discounts, premiums and attributable costs charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
iii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into a known amount of cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
iv Trade receivables and payables Trade receivables and payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Head leases The present value of future ground rents is added to the carrying value of a leasehold investment property and to long-term liabilities.
On payment of a ground rent virtually all of the cost is charged to the income statement, principally as interest payable, and the balance reduces the liability: an equal reduction to the assets valuation is charged to the income statement.
Segmental analysis All of the Groups revenue is generated from investment properties located in central London.
The properties are managed as a single portfolio by an asset management team whose responsibilities are not segregated by location or type, but are managed on an asset by asset basis.
The majority of the Groups assets are mixed use, therefore the office and retail space is managed together.
Within the investment property portfolio the Group has a number of properties under development.
The directors view the Groups development activities as an integral part of the life cycle of each of its assets rather than a separate business or division.
The nature of developing property means that whilst a property is under development it generates no revenue and has no operating results.
Once a development has completed it returns to the investment property portfolio.
The directors have considered the nature of the business, how the business is managed and how they review performance and, in their judgement, the Group has only one reportable segment.
The components of the valuation, as provided by CBRE, are set out on page 24 of this report.
Development management agreements Where the outcome of a development management agreement can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date.
Management exercise judgement when estimating the percentage complete, this is normally measured as the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Variations in work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the client.
Where the outcome of a development management agreement cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total costs will exceed total revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
2 Rental income 2010 2009 m m Gross rental income 42.9 39.1 Amortisation of capitalised lease incentives 2.9 3.4 Ground rents payable 0.1 0.1 45.7 42.4
