Annual review Governance Financials 103 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Property Income Distributions PIDs Earnings per share adjusted to exclude non-recurring items, Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property profits or losses on sales of investment properties, property rental business.
revaluations and fair value movements on derivatives on a Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR diluted basis.
The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied to Adjusted net assets per share the projected cash flows from the portfolio would result in a net NAV adjusted to exclude deferred tax on capital allowances and present value of zero.
the fair value of derivatives on a diluted basis.
REIT Earnings Per Share EPS UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of Rent roll ordinary shares in issue.
The annual contracted rental income.
EPRA adjustments Return On Capital Employed ROCE Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and adjusted Return On Capital Employed is measured as profit before NAV as set out by the European Public Real Estate Association financing costs plus revaluation surplus on development property EPRA in their Best Practice and Policy Recommendations.
divided by the opening gross capital.
Estimated Rental Value ERV Return on shareholders equity The market rental value of lettable space as estimated by the The growth in the adjusted diluted net assets per share plus Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
dividends per share for the period expressed as a percentage of F&BS the adjusted net assets per share at the beginning of the period.
Finance and Business Services sector.
Reversionary or under-rented IPD The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, together The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Reversionary yield IPD central London The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London rent reaches the ERV.
properties in their monthly and quarterly valued universes.
Total Property Return TPR Loan To Value LTV Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived from Total bank loans and debenture stock including our share of joint holding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals expressed ventures expressed as a percentage of the market value of the as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
property portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Like-for-like portfolio The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Properties that have been held for the whole of the period Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period of account.
expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Market value The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which a Triple net asset value NNNAV property should exchange on the date of valuation between a NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction liabilities on a diluted basis.
after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted True equivalent yield knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
In line with The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows market practice, values are stated net of purchasers costs.
from an investment property, including current rent, reversions to Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary equates to the market value having taken into account notional shares at the balance sheet date.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Net gearing Voids Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as a The element of a property which is unoccupied but available for percentage of adjusted equity shareholders funds.
letting, usually expressed as the ERV of the void space divided by the existing rent roll plus the ERV of the void space.
Net initial yield Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of the investment property valuation having added notional The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and the purchasers costs.
notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
Non-PIDs Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed in years.
