Annual review Governance Financials 79 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, financial instruments and pension assets.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors report on page 52.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
The directors believe that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Critical accounting judgements include the adoption of the external portfolio valuation, the adoption of a single reporting segment and the level of control the Group has in respect of its joint ventures.
The accounting policies for these areas of judgement are set out below.
During 2010, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: IAS 40 revised Investment Properties.
Properties purchased for the purpose of redevelopment were previously accounted for under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, but with effect from 1 January 2009 they are accounted for under IAS 40 Investment Property.
Therefore revaluation surpluses and deficits on development properties will now be recognised in the income statement rather than in equity.
This standard is not required to be implemented retrospectively therefore this change has no impact on previously reported figures.
IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements requires the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
As a result, a consolidated statement of changes in equity has been included as a primary statement, showing changes in each component of equity for each period presented.
Following the Rights Issue the comparative earnings per share and net assets per share have been restated as set out in note 7, this restatement has no impact on the Groups reported balance sheet and therefore the balance sheet at 31 March 2008 has not been presented.
Additionally, the following pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs: IAS 39 amended Eligible Hedged Items: IAS 39 amended and IFRS 7 amended Reclassification of Financial Assets: IFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment: IFRS 7 amended Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: and IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations: Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 Investment in Associates: and IAS 32 Classification of rights issues.
The majority of amendments made as part of the IASBs Annual Improvements programme affect accounting periods on or after 1 January 2010.
It is not expected that these pronouncements will have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 80 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Rent receivable This comprises rental income and premiums on lease surrenders on investment properties for the year, exclusive of service charges receivable.
Tenant leases The directors have considered the potential transfer of risks and rewards of ownership in accordance with IAS 17 Leases for all properties leased to tenants and in their judgement have determined that all such leases are operating leases.
Lease incentives Lease incentives including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term or on another systematic basis, if applicable.
The value of resulting accrued rental income is included within the respective property.
Other property expenses Irrecoverable running costs directly attributable to specific properties within the Groups portfolio are charged to the income statement as other property expenses.
Costs incurred in the improvement of the portfolio which, in the opinion of the directors, are not of a capital nature are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Administration expenses Costs not directly attributable to individual properties are treated as administration expenses.
Share-based payment The cost of granting share-based payments to employees and directors is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
The Group has used the Stochastic model to value the grants which is dependent upon factors including the share price, expected volatility and vesting period and the resulting fair value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The charge is reversed if it is likely that any non-market based criteria will not be met.
Investment property Investment properties are professionally valued each year, on a market value basis, and any surpluses or deficits arising are taken to the income statement.
Disposals of properties are recognised where contracts have been unconditionally exchanged during the accounting period and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the property have been transferred to the purchaser.
Depreciation No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and fittings over three to five years.
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Investment property under development Investment properties under development are professionally valued each year on a market value basis and any surpluses or deficits arising are taken to the income statement.
All directly attributable costs of bringing a property to a condition suitable for letting, including costs incurred prior to gaining planning permission, are capitalised into the cost of the property.
Once development is concluded, the property is transferred to investment property.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where the Group has joint control of the entity: the Group balance sheet contains the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures.
Funding accounts owed to or from the Group by joint ventures are included within investments.
The Groups share of joint venture profits and losses are included in the Group income statement in a single line.
All of the Groups joint ventures adopt the accounting policies of the Group for inclusion in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the tax base of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
