Annual review Governance Financials 79 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, financial instruments and pension assets.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors report on page 52.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
The directors believe that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Critical accounting judgements include the adoption of the external portfolio valuation, the adoption of a single reporting segment and the level of control the Group has in respect of its joint ventures.
The accounting policies for these areas of judgement are set out below.
During 2010, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: IAS 40 revised Investment Properties.
Properties purchased for the purpose of redevelopment were previously accounted for under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, but with effect from 1 January 2009 they are accounted for under IAS 40 Investment Property.
Therefore revaluation surpluses and deficits on development properties will now be recognised in the income statement rather than in equity.
This standard is not required to be implemented retrospectively therefore this change has no impact on previously reported figures.
IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements requires the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
As a result, a consolidated statement of changes in equity has been included as a primary statement, showing changes in each component of equity for each period presented.
Following the Rights Issue the comparative earnings per share and net assets per share have been restated as set out in note 7, this restatement has no impact on the Groups reported balance sheet and therefore the balance sheet at 31 March 2008 has not been presented.
Additionally, the following pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs: IAS 39 amended Eligible Hedged Items: IAS 39 amended and IFRS 7 amended Reclassification of Financial Assets: IFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment: IFRS 7 amended Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: and IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations: Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 Investment in Associates: and IAS 32 Classification of rights issues.
The majority of amendments made as part of the IASBs Annual Improvements programme affect accounting periods on or after 1 January 2010.
It is not expected that these pronouncements will have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
