Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 110 Shareholders information Shareholder enquiries Payment of dividends All enquiries relating to holdings of shares, bonds or debentures If you would like your dividends interest paid directly into your in Great Portland Estates, including notification of change of bank or building society account you should write to Capita address, queries regarding dividend interest payments or the loss Registrars including details of your nominated account.
of a certificate, should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Although this will enable your dividend interest to be paid directly into your account, your tax voucher will still be sent to your Capita Registrars registered address.
Northern House Fenay Bridge Low cost dealing service Huddersfield HD8 0GA This service provides both existing and prospective shareholders Tel: 0871 664 0300 with a simple, postal, low-cost method of buying and selling Great Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: lines are Portland Estates shares.
For further information, or a dealing If you are calling from overseas please dial 44 20 8639 3399 form, contact: JP Morgan Cazenove Unsolicited telephone calls Boiler room scams 20 Moorgate Over the last year, some of our shareholders have received London EC2R 6DA unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning Tel: 020 7155 5155 investment matters from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have some connection with the Company.
Website These are typically from overseas based brokers who target The Company has a corporate website, which holds, amongst UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to other information, a copy of our latest annual report and accounts, be worthless or high risk shares in UK or overseas investments.
a list of properties held by the Group and copies of all press These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
announcements released over the last 12 months.
The site can Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited be found at www.
co. uk advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited Tax consequences of REIT status investment advice: As a REIT, dividend payments must be split between PIDs ensure you get the correct name of the person and and non-PIDs.
Information in respect of the tax consequences organisation: for shareholders of receiving dividends can be found on the Companys website at www.
co. uk investors reits check that the organisation is on the Financial Services Authority FSA Register and is authorised to give financial Company Secretary advice before getting involved by visiting www.
uk pages register Desna Martin, BCom CA Aust ACIS Registered office report the matter to the FSA 33 Cavendish Square Consumer Helpline 0300 500 5000 with details, or complete London W1G 0PW the Unauthorised Firms Reporting Form at Tel: 020 7647 3000 www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml Fax: 020 7016 5500 and Registered number: 596137 if the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
More detailed information on this or similar activities can be found on the FSA website at www.
