42 direCtors responsibilities directors responsibilities The Directors have elected to prepare the RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN parent company financial statements in We confirm to the best of our knowledge: RESPECT OF THE PREPARATION OF accordance with United Kingdom Generally THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accepted Accounting Practice United 1.
The financial statements, prepared in The Directors are responsible for preparing Kingdom Accounting Standards and accordance with the applicable set of the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration applicable law.
The parent company accounting standards, give a true and fair Report and the financial statements in financial statements are required by law to view of the assets, liabilities, financial accordance with applicable law give a true and fair view of the state of affairs position and profit and loss of the and regulations.
In preparing these financial Company and the undertakings included statements, the Directors are required to: in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each select suitable accounting policies and 2.
The Business Review, which is financial year.
The Directors are required then apply them consistently: incorporated into the Directors Report, by the IAS regulation to prepare the Group make judgements and estimates that are includes a fair review of the development financial statements under International reasonable and prudent: and performance of the business and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the position of the Company and the adopted by the European Union.
The Group state whether applicable UK Accounting undertakings included in the consolidation financial statements are also required by law Standards have been followed, subject to taken as a whole, together with a to be properly prepared in accordance with any material departures disclosed and description of the principal risks the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the explained in the financial statements: and and uncertainties they face.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Signed on behalf of the Board on International Accounting Standard 1 requires inappropriate to presume that the 21February 2011 that financial statements present fairly for Company will continue in business.
each financial year the Groups financial David Atkins Simon Melliss position, financial performance and cash The Directors are responsible for keeping Director Director flows.
This requires the faithful representation proper accounting records that disclose with of the effects of transactions, other events reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and conditions in accordance with the position of the Company and enable them to definition and recognition criteria for assets, ensure that the parent company financial liabilities, income and expenses set out in statements comply with the Companies the International Accounting Standards Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Boards Framework for the preparation safeguarding the assets of the Company and and presentation of financial statements.
In hence for taking reasonable steps for the virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation prevention and detection of fraud and will be achieved by compliance with all other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the However, Directors are also required to: maintenance and integrity of the corporate properly select and apply accounting and financial information included on the policies: Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and present information, including accounting dissemination of the financial statements may policies, in a manner that provides differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
