Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors declaration in relation to relevant audit information The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors in Having made enquiries of fellow Directors, each of the Directors relation to the financial statements of both the Group and the Company.
confirms that: The reports of the independent auditors for the Group and the Company set out their responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
To the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements He has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be expected for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the to have taken in order to make himself aware of relevant audit Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the of that information.
parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Directors responsibility statement Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and belief that: Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company accounting standards identified above, give a true and fair view of the and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group: and In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors report and Business review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Group and the Company, together with a description of the principal Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable risks and uncertainties that they face.
and prudent: State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as The names of the Directors and their details appear on pages 32 to 33. adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by: disclosed and explained in the Group and Company financial statements respectively: and Prepare the Group and parent company financial statements A J Stevens on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume Chief Executive Officer that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above W G Tucker requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance with the UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49
