Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Parent company accounting policies Accounting convention Tangible fixed assets These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost Plant and machinery fixed assets are initially recognised at cost and convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative contracts which depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual values are held at fair value, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and over their estimated useful lives which range from three to six years.
applicable accounting standards UK GAAP.
Investments in group and other undertakings The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any are as set out below.
provision for impairment in value and include the fair value at the date of grant of share options awarded to employees of subsidiary Dividends undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges.
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are fully authorised.
Dividend income is recognised when the Other investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment shareholders right to receive payment has been established.
Operating leases Pensions Operating lease payments for assets leased from third parties are The Company operates and contributes to a multi-employer defined charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the benefit pension scheme.
Contributions and pension costs are term of the lease.
apportioned across the scheme as a whole and assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The scheme is closed to new Provisions members and has a high proportion of deferred and pensioner members A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or from businesses that no longer participate in the scheme.
The Company constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that is therefore not able to identify its share of underlying assets and settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
liabilities of the scheme on a reasonable and consistent basis and in accordance with the multi-employer exemption contained in FRS 17, Share capital Retirement Benefits, the scheme has been accounted for as if it was a Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity defined contribution scheme.
The charge to the profit and loss account instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual therefore reflects payments for the year.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit deducting all of its liabilities.
and loss account in the period the contributions are payable.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on The Company also makes contributions for certain employees to a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if individual personal pension and stakeholder schemes.
Contributions are dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share charged to the profit and loss account in the year to which they relate.
capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the profit and loss account as interest expense.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have Foreign currencies originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions in or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a currencies other than the local currency are translated at the exchange right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable when, on the basis exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of All exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
In order to manage the Groups exposure to certain foreign exchange Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the risks, the Company enters into forward contracts and options which periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based are accounted for as derivative financial instruments.
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax has not been discounted.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Intangible assets contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair Intangible assets, comprising software, are stated at cost less value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
They are amortised whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from the nature of the item being hedged.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101 Parent company accounting policies continued The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks Share-based payments of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Groups The Company uses foreign exchange contracts and interest rate share-based payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value swap contracts to reduce these exposures.
The Company does of options awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the profit not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
and loss account over the vesting period.
The fair value of options awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts The Company documents at the inception of an interest rate swap recovered as management charges, is recognised as a capital transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged contribution and recorded in investments.
items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Company also documents Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of of market related performance criteria and taking into account all whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective non-vesting conditions.
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Hedge accounting is not used to account for foreign exchange derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-local currencies and movements in fair values are reported in the profit and loss account.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in reserves.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts accumulated in reserves are recycled to the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in reserves at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in reserves is immediately transferred to the profit and loss account for the period.
Other financial instruments Amounts receivable from and owed to subsidiaries are recognised at their nominal value, receivables are reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
102 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group financial statements
