Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Accounting policies General information The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements which have been endorsed by the EU have also been adopted with of Cobham plc the Company, a public company limited by shares, effect from 1 January 2010 or as stated below.
No changes to previously registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries published accounting policies or other adjustments were required on the Group.
The address of the registered office is Brook Road, their adoption.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Basis of preparation Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items and Amendment to IAS 39 These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Reclassification of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
as adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39, Embedded Derivatives.
Council IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act Amendment to IFRS 2, Group Cash-settled Share-based 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Revised IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of IFRS and Amendments These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis to IFRS1, Additional Exemptions for First-time adopters.
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative contracts which are held at fair value.
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied other than as noted above, are as set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and Basis of consolidation assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of parent company and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of the revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has control, which is defined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as Standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, endorsed to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated by the EU, which have been adopted from 1 January 2010 and which from the date on which control is transferred to the Company until the impact on the financial statements are as follows: date that control ceases.
Revisions to IFRS 3, Business Combinations and IAS 27, Consolidated Joint ventures are entities where control is shared with one or more third and Separate Financial Statements issued in January 2008.
They are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity include consequential amendments to IAS 28 and IAS 31.
The Group financial statements include the Groups share of the Revised, for business combinations completed on or after 1January post acquisition change in net assets and the profit or loss of the jointly 2010, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value controlled entity from the date that joint control commences until the at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt date this ceases.
and subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
Also, all acquisition related costs are expensed.
The revisions also All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are change the accounting for non-controlling minority interests and eliminated on consolidation.
On adopting IFRS 3 Revised an immaterial amount of acquisition costs held on the balance sheet relating to acquisition Business combinations activity were written off.
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method Within IFRS Annual Improvements 2009 there was a revision to IFRS 8 of accounting with effect from the date control passes.
The cost of an which amended the requirement to present total assets and liabilities acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred.
Following this amendment segment disclosure of assets This is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and and liabilities are only required when they are reviewed in total by the the equity interests issued by the Group.
Acquisition-related costs are Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
Whilst the CODM the Board expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and reviews certain asset and liability categories, a review of total assets contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured and liabilities is not performed.
However, segmental asset disclosures initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the have been provided consistent with prior years.
consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Accounting policies continued Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is Contingent consideration not in the form of equity instruments in relation recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and to businesses acquired on or after 1 January 2010 is accounted for as a effective control of the goods have been passed to the customer, financial liability.
Adjustments to this contingent consideration is accounted recovery of the consideration is probable, and the amount of revenue for as a gain or loss recognised through profit or loss.
For businesses and costs can be measured reliably.
In the case of contracts with a long acquired prior to 1 January 2010, contingent consideration is accounted duration, including contracts with a funded development phase, revenue for as a provision and, under the transitional arrangements within IFRS 3 is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to date revised, acquisition cost is adjusted to reflect changes to the fair value assessed with reference to completed contract milestones which have of contingent consideration.
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 3 revised been accepted by the customer.
acquisition costs were treated as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11 Construction Businesses disposed of are accounted for up until control passes at contracts is rarely applicable to the longer term contracts for sales of the point of their disposal.
The results of businesses disposed of are goods entered into by Group companies.
Where long term contract disclosed as arising from discontinued operations where they meet accounting is applicable, revenue is recognised on a percentage the criteria to be treated as such.
of completion basis whereby a portion of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract costs incurred to date compared Any changes to the Groups ownership interests which do not result in with total estimated costs at completion.
loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Where control is lost, any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered and a gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Group also with reference to the proportion of the service delivered to date.
treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with For cost-plus contracts typically with government departments equity owners of the Group.
and agencies, revenue is recognised to the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated fee earned.
Underlying measures For contracts where revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, In addition to the information required by IFRS and to assist with the revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its published statements trading profit and underlying earnings results.
Revenue excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Trading profit and underlying earnings have been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts of certain Operating segments transaction related costs and business restructuring costs as detailed The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been below.
Also excluded are the marking to market of currency instruments identified as the Board.
It reviews the Groups internal reporting in order not realised in the period, impairments of intangible assets and items to assess performance and allocate resources, which is based on the deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature such as the Groups operating Divisions and has been used to determine operating settlement of a long-standing commercial dispute.
These segments are described further in note 1.
Details of the composition and purpose of the Board can be found on pages 3738.
Transaction related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on The Board assesses the performance of operating Divisions based on acquisition, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of revenue, trading profit as defined above and operating cash generation.
inventory written up on acquisition and costs charged post acquisition Interest income and expenditure, and taxation are not segmented and related to acquired share options.
Transaction related costs also include are reviewed by the Board on a Group basis.
other direct costs associated with business combinations and direct costs arising from any terminated acquisitions or disposals.
The Board does not review any information on segment assets and liabilities.
Segment assets as disclosed in note 1 have been defined to Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional profits or losses arising include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment on disposals actually completed, as well as exceptional costs or profits properties, inventory and trade and other receivables.
They do not associated with the restructuring of the Groups business and site include tax receivables, cash and bank balances and derivative financial integrations.
This includes costs associated with the Excellence in assets.
This definition of segment assets is consistent with disclosures Delivery programme.
given in previous years in accordance with IAS 14.
All underlying measures include the revenue and operational results The Group accounting policies are applied consistently across all of both continuing and discontinued businesses until the point of sale Divisions and activities.
Trading between Group companies is contracted of the operation.
and priced at arms length commercial terms.
Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less Pensions borrowings at the balance sheet date.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit net of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
are the current service costs.
Gains and losses on settlements and 52 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group financial statements Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information curtailments arising on a business disposal are included in profit on OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt disposal.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income with in OCI or in equity respectively.
statement if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable expected return on assets and interest cost are shown within finance right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when income and expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Dividends Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered fully authorised.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and Share-based payments discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high For grants made under the Groups equity settled share-based payment quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are the time of grant are charged to the income statement over the relevant updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting defined benefit asset vesting periods.
or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
The costs of awards made under cash settled share-based payment For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income schemes are measured initially at the grant date and expensed over statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement the vesting period.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet benefits are the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recognised through the income statement.
recorded as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the BlackTaxation including deferred taxation Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
of market related performance criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Taxable profit Where the terms of share-based payment schemes have been modified excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in as a result of acquisition, the costs of awards have been allocated between other years and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
acquisition cost and post-combination expense based on the proportion of The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have the vesting period completed prior to the acquisition and the respective been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
fair values of the original and replacement awards at that date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method Intangible assets in respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases Goodwill of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups financial statements.
interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired is allocated at Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of deficits acquisition to the cash generating units that are expected to benefit from on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, accelerated tax that business combination.
Cash generating units are typically business units depreciation and acquisition accounting.
Deferred tax liabilities are which are separately managed, for which financial results are individually recognised for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets reported and which generate cash flows that are largely independent.
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Goodwill arising on overseas acquisitions since the date of transition to The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance IFRS is treated as a foreign currency asset and revalued at the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising are taken through other sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets comprehensive income to the translation reserve and reclassified to the to be recovered.
income statement when the related subsidiary is sold.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Goodwill arising on acquisitions of businesses, subsidiaries and joint investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of ventures is capitalised and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates and laws that have been On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income www.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Accounting policies continued Research and development Investment properties Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals and or as incurred.
Development costs not chargeable to customers are for capital appreciation, are stated at cost at the balance sheet date.
written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions They are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets, are met.
value over their estimated useful lives.
At that point further costs are capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily available for use and it is then amortised Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
Aircraft overhaul expenditure Other intangible assets Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group incurred and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment over its useful economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually losses.
These include customer relationships, technology and software, required on aircraft held under operating leases are provided for over the trademarks, licences and patents.
The only internally generated period between the scheduled maintenance events.
intangible assets are development costs which are capitalised as described above, and internally developed software where asset Inventories recognition criteria are met.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour All other intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated useful costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the life on a straight-line basis as follows: inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the Customer relationships 2 to 15 years estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs Technology and software 2 to 10 years to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Development costs 2 to 10 years Financial instruments Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis taking into balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual account the specific characteristics of the asset.
Financial assets are recognised at trade date.
Property, plant and equipment Financial assets and liabilities Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment Financial assets are categorised on initial recognition as assets held at fair at least annually.
value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables dependent upon the purpose for which the assets were acquired and as follows: Freehold and leasehold buildings, plant and equipment are held at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised impairment losses.
as held for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current assets or non-current assets dependent upon maturity.
All property, plant and equipment other than land is depreciated on a Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the estimated or determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
These lives are as follows: These are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon maturity and included within trade and other receivables.
Freehold buildings 50 years including investmentproperties None of the Groups material financial assets fall into the held to maturity Leasehold properties The period of the lease or available for sale categories which are defined as follows: Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed maturity dates which the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial annually and adjusted where necessary.
assets either designated by management as available for sale or not falling into any of the above categories.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as liabilities term of the relevant lease.
held at fair value through profit or loss, or other liabilities held at cost.
Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is held for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current or non-current determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the liabilities dependant upon the maturity date of the instruments.
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
54 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group financial statements Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on as hedges.
a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share When a financial asset or liability is recognised initially, it is measured at capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement as its fair value.
In the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair finance expense.
value through profit or loss, fair value is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting asset or financial liability.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value As explained in note 28, the Groups activities expose it primarily to through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts and interest method.
Financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss are rate swap contracts to reduce these exposures and does not use stated at amortised cost.
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group has documented its risk management objectives and strategy for Trade and other receivables undertaking various hedge transactions, and utilises hedge accounting Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced principles in relation to interest rate swaps.
These are designated as cash by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
flow hedges which mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in interest Allowances for irrecoverable amounts are made when there is evidence rates arising on floating rate debt.
From time to time, the Group may also that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due.
All trade use interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to changes in the fair receivables which are more than six months overdue are provided for value of fixed rate borrowings, however there are no such contracts based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference outstanding at the present time.
Foreign exchange contracts entered to past default experience.
Amounts which are less than six months into to mitigate foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-functional overdue are provided where recovery of the balance due is considered currencies are not accounted for using hedge accounting.
The impairment recorded is the difference between the carrying value of the receivables and the present value of the estimated Derivatives such as foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap future cashflows.
Any impairment required is recorded in the income contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract statement in administrative expenses.
The balance may be written off is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
in full generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old.
At that The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on time any amounts previously provided for impairment are released.
whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Trade payables Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging nominal value.
instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge Bank borrowings inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net of flows or fair values if appropriate of hedged items.
amounts capitalised, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised in other that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Borrowing comprehensive income through the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss costs that are directly attributable to relevant property, plant and relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance income and expense in the income statement in the periods Cash and cash equivalents when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents or loss existing in the hedging reserve in equity at that time remains in for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a hedged transaction is no longer Share capital expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity hedging reserve in equity is immediately transferred to the income instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual statement for the period.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or all of its liabilities.
liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Accounting policies continued Where hedge accounting is not applied, movements in fair values are Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the expected included in the income statement as part of operating profit.
The fair benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current asset the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
or liability dependent upon the maturity of the derivative contracts.
As noted above, provisions for contingent consideration relating to Foreign currencies acquisitions completed before 1 January 2010 were recognised when The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Most Group it was considered probable that the conditions attaching to potential companies, including the parent company, use their local currency as payment would be met.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months.
at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of utilisation of taken to the income statement.
Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months or less is charged to the income statement as incurred.
As noted above, in order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the Group enters into forward contracts, which are When aircraft are leased, it is customary for the contract to contain accounted for as derivative financial instruments.
specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft on its return to the lessor at the end of the lease.
The estimated cost For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas associated with fulfilling these requirements is charged to the income subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing statement on an aircraft utilisation basis.
Income statements of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an approximation Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made for actual rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising on these under performance guarantees are recognised at the Directors best translations are accounted for in other comprehensive income and estimates of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the Leasing impact is material.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Impairment losses All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
flows have not been adjusted.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount of an statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
asset is higher than its recoverable amount.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
losses are recognised in the income statement.
Provisions An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed only A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or after a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount and constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Any reversal Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the is recognised in the income statement.
relevant products, at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
56 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group financial statements Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Critical accounting estimates and judgements Retirement benefits Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on The Group financial statements include costs and liabilities in relation to historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities The current economic conditions have been considered when which include the long-term rate of increase of salary costs, discount evaluating accounting estimates and judgements, including the rate, inflation, the expected return on plan assets and mortality rates.
application of the going concern basis of preparation.
The Group uses published indices and independent actuarial advice to select the values of critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 9.
Management judgement and estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies management Provisions and contingent liabilities has made a number of judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The The consolidated financial statements include appropriate provisions resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related for the estimated outcome of commercial disputes.
No such provision actual results.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key is included for contingent liabilities.
Due to the significant uncertainty sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a associated with the future level of such claims and contingencies and of significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts the costs arising out of any related litigation, there can be no guarantee of assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are as follows: that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred and, as a Intangible assets recognised on acquisition result, the provision may be subject to revisions from time to time if new On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by information becomes available as a result of future events.
The Directors recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities take account of the advice of experts in quantifying the expected costs acquired at fair value.
Intangible assets are recognised where they are of future adverse judgements.
separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, and have a fair value that can be measured reliably.
For the Group these intangible assets Accounting standards not yet effective usually comprise contractual arrangements, customer relationships and Certain new standards and amendments to existing standards have technology based assets, but can also include acquired patents, software been published that are mandatory for future accounting periods, rights and licences and development costs.
Those which the Group has not adopted early and which are applicable from 1 January 2011 are as follows: In establishing the fair value for intangible assets recognised on acquisition and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account of Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
the individual circumstances of the entity acquired.
This includes trading Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding data, such as the value and duration of contracts acquired, the strength, Requirement.
duration and degree of exclusivity of relationships with customers, as IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
well as valuation estimates, such as the estimation of likely external Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 royalty rates that could be associated with technology and branding Disclosure for First-time Adopters.
assets and attributable future cash flows.
Impairment of goodwill None of these are expected to have an impact on the Group.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least once a year.
This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units Subject to EU endorsement, the amendments to IFRS 7 Financial to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from Assets and IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS: Severe Hyperinflation and the cash generating units and also to choose a suitable discount rate in Removal of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters are effective from order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further details 1January 2012 and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from are given in note 13.
Taxation The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions and income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57
