Definitions The following definitions apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its published statements trading profit and underlying earnings results.
Trading profit and underlying earnings have been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts of certain transaction related costs and business restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded are the marking to market of currency instruments not realised in the period, impairments of intangible assets and items deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature such as the settlement of a long-standing commercial dispute.
Transaction related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition and costs charged post acquisition related to acquired share options.
Transaction related costs also include other direct costs associated with business combinations and direct costs arising from any terminated acquisitions or disposals.
Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional profits or losses arising on disposals actually completed, as well as exceptional costs or profits associated with the restructuring of the Groups business and site integrations.
This includes costs associated with the Excellence in Delivery programme.
All underlying measures include the revenue and operational results of both continuing and discontinued businesses until the point of sale of the operation.
Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less borrowings at the balance sheet date.
A reconciliation of underlying profit is shown on page 22.
Operating cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations, adjusted for cash flows from the purchase or disposal of tangible fixed assets.
Operating cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
Free cash flow is operating cash flow after net interest and taxation.
Cobhams Technology Divisions comprise Cobham Avionics and Surveillance, Cobham Defence Systems and Cobham Mission Systems.
Organic revenue growth is defined as revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange, excluding the incremental effect of acquisitions and disposals.
116 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group financial statements Cobhams products and services have been at the heart of sophisticated military and civil systems for more than 75 years, keeping people safe, improving communications, and enhancing the capability of land, marine, air and space platforms.
The Group has three divisions employing more than 11,000 people on five continents, with customers and partners in more than 100 countries and annual revenue of some 1.9bn $3bn.
Designed and produced by Addison www.
co. uk Printed by Park Communications.
The paper used in this report is produced from 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre.
The pulp is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Front cover image Free ECF process.
The Forest Stewardship Council has given this paper Cobhams latest fifth generation 905E its Mixed Sources accreditation, acknowledging it has been produced Air-to-Air Refuelling AAR pod has been from recycled fibre, well managed forests and other controlled sources.
certified as part of the Airbus A330 Multi Role The paper mill and printer are certified to the ISO14001 environmental Tanker Transport MRTT for the Royal Australian Air Force.
The A330 MRTT with management standard.
Cobham 905E pods has also been selected for You can view this Annual Report, other results the UK MoD Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft material, including a webcast of the results When you have finished with this report, please pass it on to other FSTA programme, the Saudi Arabia Air Force presentation, and other information for shareholders interested parties or remove the cover and dispose of it in your recycled and the United Arab Emirates Air Force, with online at www.
com a current requirement for more than 50 pods.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The most important thing we build is trust We are technically diverse, innovative and agile by design Fifth generation Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ England www.
