148 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted EPS Joint venture Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Earnings per share based on revenue profit plus profits losses on trading An entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three quarters of properties and long-term development contracts all after tax.
is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more venturers under a its profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
contractual arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating Income and capital gains from the property rental business are exempt Adjusted net asset value Adjusted NAV per share policies essential to the operation, performance and financial position from tax but the REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits NAV per share adjusted to add back the adjustment arising from the of the venture require each joint venture partners consent.
Corporation tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in fide-recognition of the bond exchange, together with cumulative the normal way.
mark-to-market adjustment arising on interest swaps and similar Lease incentives instruments.
Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the Rental value growth incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to Increase in the current rental value, as determined by the Companys Average unexpired lease term fit-out or similar costs.
For accounting purposes, under IFRS, the value of valuers, over the 12 month period on a like-for-like basis.
Excludes short-term lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, the rent-free period is spread over the non-cancellable life of the lease.
residential leases and long ground leases.
Retail warehouse park LIBOR A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units aggregating over Book value 2 The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank 4,650m with shared parking.
The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial to another for lending money.
Retail Portfolio Like-for-like portfolio This business includes our shopping centres, shops, retail warehouse BREEAM The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been in the properties and assets held in retail joint ventures but not Central Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
portfolio since 1 April 2008, but excluding those which were acquired, London retail.
sold or included in the development programme at any time during Combined portfolio Return on average capital employed the period.
The combined portfolio is our wholly-owned investment property Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before tax, divided portfolio combined with our share of the properties held in joint ventures.
Loan-to-value LTV by the average capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus Unless stated these are the pro-forma numbers we use when discussing Group LTV is the ratio of the sum of investment properties, net net debt.
investment in finance leases and trading properties of both the Group Return on average equity and joint ventures to net debt, including joint ventures, expressed as a Completed developments Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average percentage.
For the Security Group, LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to Completed developments consist of those properties previously included equity shareholders funds.
the Security Group divided by the value of secured assets.
in the development programme which have been transferred from the development programme since 1 April 2008.
Revenue profit London Portfolio Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current assets and This business includes all London offices and Central London retail, but Development pipeline trading properties, profits on long-term development contracts, excludes those assets held in the Metro Shopping Fund LP.
The Groups development programme together with any proposed valuation surpluses, mark-to-market adjustments on interest-rate swaps schemes that are not yet included in the development programme but Market value and similar instruments used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to which are more likely to proceed than not.
Market value is determined by the Groups valuers, in accordance with the interest payable resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of the estimated amount for fide-recognition, debt restructuring charges and any exceptional items.
Development programme which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a The development programme consists of committed developments Reversionary or under-rented willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after being projects which are approved and the building contract let, Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
authorised developments those projects approved by the Board for which the building contract has not yet been let, projects under Reversionary yield Mark-to-market adjustment construction and developments which have reached practical completion The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability within the last two years but are not yet 95% let.
Development surplus Scrip dividend Net asset value NAV per share Excess of latest valuation over the total development cost TDC.
Land Securities offers its shareholders the opportunity to receive Equity attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the number of dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
This is known as ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Reported amount adjusted to include the effects of potential dilutive Net initial yield shares issuable under employee share schemes.
Topped-up net initial yield Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers of the yield Net initial yield topped up for leases still in a rent-free period at the that would be received by a purchaser, based on the Estimated Net Rental Earnings per share EPS contracted rents per annum.
Income expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Total business return Dividend per share, plus the increase in adjusted diluted net asset value Estimated Net Rental income is the Passing Cash Rent less ground rents, EPRA per share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the estimated non-recoverable outgoings and void costs including service European Public Real Estate Association.
charges, insurance costs and void rates.
Equivalent yield Total development cost TDC Outline planning consent Calculated by the Groups valuers, equivalent yield is the internal rate of All capital expenditure on a project including the opening book value This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters such return from an investment property, based on the gross outlays for the of the property on commencement of development, together with as use and building mass.
Full details of the development scheme must be purchase of a property including purchase costs, reflecting reversions all capitalised interest.
provided in an application for full planning consent, including detailed to current market rent, and such items as voids and non-recoverable design, external appearance and landscaping before a project can expenditure but disregarding potential changes in market rents.
An outline planning permission will lapse if full planning The calculation assumes rent is received annually in arrears.
Valuation surplus, profit loss on property sales and net rental income in permission is not granted within three years.
respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening Gross estimated rental value ERV book value, together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure Over-rented The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined incurred during the current year, on the investment property portfolio.
Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
biannually by the Groups valuers.
This will often be different to the rent being paid.
Total shareholder return Passing Cash Rent The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified year, assuming that The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date which Exceptional item dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
includes estimates of turnover rent and estimates of rent to be agreed An item of income or expense that is deemed to be sufficiently material, in respect of outstanding rent review or lease renewal negotiations.
either by its size or nature, to require separate disclosure.
Trading properties Passing Cash Rent may be more or less than the ERV see Over-rented, Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the Reversionary and ERV.
Passing Cash Rent excludes annual rent receivable Finance lease balance sheet.
from units in administration save to the extent that rents expect to be A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership received.
Void units and units that are in a rent-free period at the from the lessor to the lessee.
Underlying operating profit reporting date are deemed to have no Passing Cash Rent.
Operating profit before profit on disposal of non-current properties, Gearing net revaluation of investment properties, and exceptional items stated within Pre-let Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, operating profit.
A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative mark-to-market adjustment on financial derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
Voids Property income distribution PID Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all unlet space, A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying Head lease including voids where refurbishment work is being carried out and voids profits.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying profits A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
in respect of pre-development properties.
Temporary lettings of up to as a PID to its shareholders.
12 months are also treated as voids.
Interest Cover Ratio ICR Proposed developments A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest payments on Weighted average cost of capital WACC Proposed developments are properties which have not yet received final outstanding debt.
Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as Board approval or are still subject to main planning conditions being a benchmark to assess investment returns.
satisfied, but which are more likely to proceed than not.
Interest-rate swap A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest Yield shift Qualifying activities Qualifying assets rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are used by A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental the Group to convert floating-rate debt or investments to fixed rates.
income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment income and capital gains under UK REIT legislation.
Investment portfolio The investment portfolio comprises the Groups wholly-owned investment properties together with the properties held for development.
Land Securities Annual Report 2010 1127 Land Securities 91-148. indd 1127 Land Securities 91-148. indd 148 148 2 6 10 2 6 10 11:21:01 11:21:01 Forward-looking statements This brochure has been printed on Naturalis Design & illustration by sasdesign.
co. uk This Annual Report and the Land Securities website may contain certain Absolute White paper.
This paper is made up of Words by Tim Rich forward-looking statements with respect to Land Securities Group PLC 100% fibre ECF virgin wood fibre, independently Portraits by Philip Gatward and Andy Lane and the Groups financial condition, results of operations and business, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Photography by Lonelyleap, Matt Mawson Annual Report 2010 Online content and certain of Land Securities Group PLC and the Groups plans and Stewardship Council.
The paper is manufactured and Michael Christopher Brown objectives with respect to these items.
at a mill that is certified to ISO14001 environmental Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, management standards.
All of the pulp is bleached ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral Go to our online report for additional features and supporting content: Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified using an elemental chlorine free ECF process and by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, the inks used are all vegetable oil based.
com annualreport2010 due, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates.
By their very nature forward-looking Land Securities Group PLC statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve Copyright and trade mark notices risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on All rights reserved.
circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of Copyright 2010 Land Securities Group PLC.
factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, the statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the Cornerstones logo and Making Property Work, economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the are trade marks of Land Securities Group PLC.
regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact All other trade marks and registered trade marks of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: and are the property of their respective owners.
changes in interest and exchange rates.
Any written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this Annual Report or made subsequently, which are attributable to Land Securities Group PLC or any other member of the Group or persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Annual Report or on the date the forward-looking statement is made.
Land Securities Group PLC does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Website Land Securities website www.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website Videos Create your does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
own report See the inside story on some Notice regarding limitations on Directors liability under English law of our most important Tick the relevant boxes Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a new safe harbour limits the actions during the year liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from to create a bespoke, the Report of the Directors contained on pages 1 to 90.
Under English downloadable Annual Report law the Directors would be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Report of the Directors contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment Chart generator of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
Use our chart generator to Report of the Directors compare year-to-year figures Pages 1 to 90 inclusive consist of a Report of the Directors that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report Creating shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
strong foundations animated Watch an animated version of our investment story in 2009 10 Executive report Watch our Executive team review 2009 10 and discuss the year ahead 1127 Land Securities Cover.
indd IFC2-IFC3 IFC2-IFC3 2 6 10 2 6 10 18:21:25 18:21:25 Annual Report 2010 Cr Cr Cre e eat at ati i ing ng ng s s st t tr r ro o on n ng g g f f fo o ou u un n nd d dat at ati i io o on n ns s s Land Securities Group PLC 5 5 S St tr ra an nd d, L Lo on nd do on n W WC C2 2N N 5 5A AF F T T 4 44 4 0 0 2 20 0 7 741 413 3 9 90 00 00 0 E E iin nv five es st to or r.. r rela elat tiio ons ns@ @la lan ndse dsec cu ur riit tiie es s.. c co om m W W w ww ww w.. la lan ndse dsec cu ur riit tiie es s.. c co om m One New Change T Th hiis s w wo or rlldd-c clla as ss s d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t w wiilll l b bri rin ng g n ne ew w v viit ta alliit ty y a an nd d v va ari rie et ty y t to o a a t tr ru uly ly r re em ma ar rk ka ab blle e s siit te e iin n t th he e C Ciit ty y o of f L Lo on nd do on n, n ne ex xt t t to o S St t P Pa au ulls s C Ca at th he ed dr ra all.. T Th he e s sh ho op ps s a ar re e o on n s sc ch he ed du ul le e t to o o op pe en n f fo or r C Ch hri ris st tm ma as s 2 20 01 10 0, a an nd d t th he e o of ff fiic ce es s w wiilll l open in June 2011.
