Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2010 Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to Introduction existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2010 the Groups financial statements are set out below: or later periods.
The Group has identified IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as being relevant to its business but the Group has not adopted this standard early as certain aspects of it remain A Accounting convention and basis of under discussion.
The Group does not anticipate that any of these preparation standards or interpretations will have a material impact on the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Groups financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations B Use of assumptions and estimates as adopted by the European Union that are effective for the year ended 30 September 2010.
They have been prepared under the The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and other The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
This is discussed in the Business Review on page 25.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IAS 1 adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007, IFRS 3 next financial year are discussed below.
Business Combinations revised 2008, IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008, IAS 23 Borrowing Income taxes Costs revised 2007 and IFRIC 12 Service Concession The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires that the Group calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain presents a consolidated statement of comprehensive income and during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises a consolidated statement of changes in equity as additional primary liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be statements.
The standard is concerned with disclosure only and has due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 and IAS 27 tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 determination is made.
have not had a material effect on the financial statements of the Group except for the treatment of business combinations.
The most Goodwill significant changes from the Groups previous policies for business The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any combinations are as follows: impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out in section M below.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating t acquisition transaction costs which would previously have been units have been determined based on value in use calculations.
included in the cost of a business combination are expensed These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions through the income statement as they are incurred: and consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have t any changes to the cost of an acquisition, including contingent been formally approved by management.
The key assumptions consideration, resulting from events after the date of acquisition used for the value in use calculations are set out in note 9 to the are recognised in the income statement.
IFRS 3 has been applied prospectively to acquisitions made by the Post-employment benefits Group in 2010 which are shown in note 25.
There is no requirement Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent to restate comparative data relating to acquisitions made on or actuaries based on actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgment is before 30 September 2009. required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
The principal assumptions used are described in note 22 to the financial The only significant impact on the Groups financial statements statements.
in the year to 30 September 2010 has been that 5 million of acquisition transaction costs has been expensed through the income statement.
C Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 requires borrowing costs statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or its subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint ventures production of a qualifying asset to be capitalised as part of the cost and associates made up to 30 September each year.
This has not had a significant impact on the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2010.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements addresses the accounting for service concession contracts operated within a framework of services to the public.
The Group has assessed the impact of this interpretation and has concluded that it does not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 71
