Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2010 Contract-related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a Borrowings business are recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of the contract.
Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised share exclude the amortisation of contract-related intangible assets cost: any difference between the proceeds net of direct issue costs arising on acquisition of a business as it is not considered to be and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement relevant to the underlying trading performance of the Group.
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method, unless included in a fair value hedge.
N Property, plant and equipment Equity instruments All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Freehold proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
All other property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any Liabilities in respect of option agreements recognised impairment in value.
Option agreements that allow minority shareholders to require the Group to purchase the minority interest are treated as derivatives Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the anticipated over equity instruments.
These are recorded in the balance sheet useful lives of the assets.
at fair value which is re-evaluated at each period end.
Fair value is based on the present value of expected cash outflows.
The The following rates applied for the Group: movement in fair value is recognised as income or expense within the income statement.
t Freehold buildings and long-term leasehold property: 2% per annum: Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting t Short-term leasehold property: the life of the lease: The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward t Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum: and currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks t Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum.
associated with changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially measured When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds at fair value on the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value and the carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the income at subsequent reporting dates.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors that provide written principles O Assets held for sale on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial for sale if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale instruments for speculative purposes.
transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, management The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by is committed to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar sale in its present condition and the sale is expected to be maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined completed within one year from the date of classification.
These by reference to market values for similar instruments.
assets are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the P Inventories fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised Cost is calculated using either the weighted average price or the asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
first in, first out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course In relation to fair value hedges interest rate swaps which meet the of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the Q Financial instruments income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, denominated and loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at period-end exchange rates.
Gains and losses are dealt with through the income When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any adjustment statement, unless hedge accounting treatment is available.
to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the designated risk for interest-bearing financial instruments is amortised to profit or loss, Cash and cash equivalents with amortisation commencing no later than when the hedged item Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and ceases to be adjusted.
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The Groups policy is to convert a proportion of its floating rate debt to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group designates these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
74 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
