Parent Company financial statements Parent Company accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2010 Introduction G Derivatives and other financial instruments The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below: The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps and forward A Accounting convention and basis of currency contracts.
The Company and Group policy is disclosed in preparation the accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP H Dividends and the Companies Act 2006 using the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements in the year in which they are approved in general meeting by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised B Exemptions when paid.
The Companys financial statements are included in the Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended I Deferred tax 30 September 2010.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on timing account.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and from presenting a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those Cash Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as transactions with other members of Compass Group.
more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for J Share-based payments the year ended 30 September 2010 contain financial instrument The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based disclosures which comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: payments to certain employees.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
instrument disclosures for the Company.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over C Change in accounting policies the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non marketThe Company has not applied any additional accounting standards for the first time in the year ended 30 September 2010. based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or D Investments in subsidiary undertakings Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, In the opinion of the Directors, the value of each investment is not based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise less than shown at the balance sheet date.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the E Foreign currency portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its for the period.
subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported F Borrowings with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
For details of the charge see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 123
