Consolidated financial statements Income from value and volume-related rebates is recognised based The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each on actual purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer made or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income statement as the goods are consumed.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Rebates relating to items purchased but still held at the balance sheet date are deducted from the carrying value of these items so Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other that the cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are deducted and liabilities on a net basis.
M Intangible assets I Borrowing costs Goodwill Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less any J Operating profit accumulated impairment losses.
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates, investment revenue and finance costs.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGU for the purpose of impairment testing.
A CGU is identified at the lowest aggregation of assets that generate largely independent cash K Exceptional items inflows, and that which is looked at by management for monitoring Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the and managing the business.
This is generally the total business financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide for a country.
However, in some instances, where there are further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
distinct separately managed business activities within a country, They are material items of income or expense that have been shown particularly if they fall within different secondary business separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
segments, the CGU is identified at this lower level.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying L Tax amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to recognised in the income statement except where it relates to items the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying taken directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment is immediately income or equity, in which case it is recognised in the consolidated recognised in the income statement and an impairment loss statement of comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
recognised for goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax gain or loss on disposal.
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Other intangible assets differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from if acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised at the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other fair value as at the date of the acquisition.
Internally generated assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable intangible assets are not capitalised.
Amortisation is charged on profit nor the accounting profit.
a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences The following rates applied for the Group: arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interest in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal t Contract-related intangible assets: the life of the contract: and of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary t Computer software: 6% to 33% per annum.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The typical life of contract-related intangibles is 2 to 20 years.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 73
