Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2010 D Subsidiaries, associates and F Foreign currency joint ventures The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to In preparing the financial statements of individual companies within govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect the Group, transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transaction.
are considered when assessing control.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates on Joint ventures the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on included in the income statement for the period, except for where a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and they arise on items taken directly to other comprehensive income, in other venturers under a contractual agreement.
The Groups share which case they are also recognised in the consolidated statement is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method.
The consolidated income statement and balance sheet include the Groups share of the income, expenses, assets and liabilities.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the Group enters into forward currency contracts see section Associates Q below for the Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint financial instruments.
ventures over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in financial and operating policy decisions.
Investments in On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
operations expressed in their functional currencies, being the The consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity the profit after tax of the associated undertakings.
Investments in operates are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet associates include goodwill identified on acquisition and are carried date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation impairment in value.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Adjustments Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity policies used in line with those used by the Group.
and translated at the closing rate.
Acquisitions and disposals The results of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures acquired G Revenue or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated Revenue is recognised in the period in which services are provided income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the in accordance with the terms of the contractual relationships with effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal Intra-group transactions course of business, excluding trade discounts, value added tax and All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are similar sales taxes.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts with a joint venture of the Group, profits or losses are eliminated Management fee contracts to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
Revenue from management fee contracts comprises the total of sales made to consumers, the subsidy charged to clients, together E Acquisitions with the management fee charged to clients.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase Fixed price contracts method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised in proportion to the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities the volume of services that the Group is contracted to supply in incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities Inter-segment transactions assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, There is little or no intra-group trading between the reported except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified business segments.
Where such trading does take place it is on as held for sale which are recognised and measured at fair value similar terms and conditions to those available to third parties.
The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the H Rebates and other amounts received net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as from suppliers goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include agreed net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised discounts from suppliers list prices, value and volume-related rebates.
directly in the income statement.
72 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
