Shareholder information General shareholder information an electronic transmission is not successful, a paper notification Registrars and transfer office will be sent to the shareholder at their registered address.
All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings in the Shareholders wishing to continue to receive shareholder information Company should be directed to Capita Registrars, Northern House, in the traditional paper format should take no action, or may confirm Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0GA: telephone this via www.
within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
Cash dividends Shareholders can register online to view their Compass Group PLC Holders of ordinary shares can have cash dividends paid in the shareholding details using the Share Portal, a service offered by form of a cheque.
Alternatively, UK resident ordinary shareholders Capita Registrars at www.
Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building registering for the Share Portal will require their investor code which society account.
Ordinary shareholders resident outside the UK is shown on share certificates.
The service enables shareholders to: can also have any dividends in excess of 25 paid into their bank account directly via the Companys Registrars global t check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24 hours payments service.
Details and terms and conditions may be a day: viewed at www.
t register their email and mailing preference post or electronic for future shareholder mailings: Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP t gain easy access to a range of shareholder information including A DRIP service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
indicative valuation and payment instruction details: and The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use the whole of their t use the Internet to appoint a proxy to attend general meetings cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, thereby of Compass Group PLC.
Additional information, including details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the Companys website at Published information www.
com and from Capita IRG Trustees Limited, If you would like to receive a copy of this Report in an alternative telephone within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from format such as large print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: email: shares@capitaregistrars.
contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
The latest date for receipt of new applications to participate in respect of the 2010 final dividend is 3 February 2011.
Electronic communications Share price information The Company can, at shareholders request, send shareholders an email notification each time a new shareholder report or other The current price of the Companys shares is available on the shareholder communication is placed on its website.
This enables Companys website at www.
This is supplied shareholders to read and or download the information at their leisure.
with a 15-minute delay to real time.
Shareholders can still request paper copies of the documents if they so wish.
The Companys share price is also available in a number of national newspapers, e. g. The Financial Times and from the voice activated To encourage shareholders to convert to e-communications, the FT Cityline service, telephone within the UK: 0905 8171 690.
Calls Company will arrange for a tree to be planted in the UK for each will be charged at 75 pence per minute at all times from a BT landline.
shareholder who chooses to receive all future communications Average call duration will be one minute for one stock quote.
There are no particular software requirements to view from other networks and mobile phones may be higher.
these documents, other than those described and available on our website at www.
Share dealing The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, The provision of a facility to communicate with shareholders building societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, electronically does not discriminate between registered shareholders the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, offer online and of the same class.
The facility is available to all registered shareholders telephone dealing services to buy or sell Compass Group PLC on equal terms and participation is made as simple as possible.
Full details can be obtained from www.
com note that it is the shareholders responsibility to notify our Registrars or by telephoning Freephone 0800 280 2545.
The service is only through www.
com or by post of any change to available to personal shareholders aged 18 and over, resident in their email address.
Before electing for electronic communication, the UK.
shareholders should ensure that they have the appropriate computer capabilities.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no viruses are present in any communication it sends out, but cannot ShareGift accept any responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service or use of any email or attachments from the Company and recommends for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
It is that shareholders subject all messages to virus checking procedures particularly useful for those shareholders who may wish to dispose prior to use.
Please note that any electronic communication sent by a of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it shareholder to the Company or the Registrars containing a computer uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information virus will not be accepted.
can be obtained from ShareGifts website at www.
org, telephone within the UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas: The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an electronic 44 20 7930 3737, or from the Registrars.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in transmission beyond its control.
In the event that the Company becomes aware that 128 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information American Depositary Receipts ADRs Directors Information about the Companys ADR programme is available Chairman on the Companys website at www.
Sir Roy Gardner Executive directors Warning about unsolicited investment Group Chief Executive contacts Richard Cousins Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning Group Finance Director investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based Andrew Martin brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK Group Managing Director USA & Canada investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler Gary Green rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and in May 2010 the Financial Services Authority FSA Non-executive directors reported that the average amount lost by investors from boiler room Sir James Crosby Senior Independent Non-executive Director scams is around 20,000.
Steve Lucas Susan Murray More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found Tim Parker on the FSA website at www.
uk and on the Don Robert Companys website at www.
Sir Ian Robinson Unsolicited mail General Counsel & Company Secretary Mark White The Company is legally obliged to make its Register of Members available, subject to a proper purpose test, to the public.
As a consequence of this, some shareholders might receive unsolicited Key committee membership mail.
UK shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such Audit Committee mail should refer to the Mailing Preference Service website at Steve Lucas Chairman www.
Tim Parker Don Robert Identity theft protecting an investment Sir Ian Robinson Criminals may steal shareholders personal information, putting a holding at risk.
Advice on protecting a shareholding is available Corporate Responsibility Committee on the Companys website at www.
Susan Murray Chairman Sir Roy Gardner Financial calendar Richard Cousins Jane Kingston Annual General Meeting: Steve Lucas 3 February 2011 Andrew Martin Mark White Results announcements: Half year May Nomination Committee Full year November Sir Roy Gardner Chairman Richard Cousins Dividend payments: Sir James Crosby Interim August Susan Murray Final February Don Robert Sir Ian Robinson Expected Remuneration Committee Sir James Crosby Chairman Steve Lucas Susan Murray Tim Parker Tim Parker will leave the Board on 31 December 2010 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 129
