Parent Company financial statements Parent Company financial statements Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by law to prepare separate The Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Disclosure financial statements for the Company in accordance with and Transparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have chosen to Services Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an prepare these financial statements for the Company in annual financial report.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Annual Report and Accounts is the responsibility of, and has been approved by, the Directors.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company t the accounts of the Company have been prepared in accordance for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Directors are required to: t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Company.
t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: On behalf of the Board t make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and t prepare the financial statements on the going concern Mark J White basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the General Counsel and Company Secretary Company will continue in business.
24 November 2010 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
120 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
