Shareholder information Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the tenth Annual General Meeting of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held in the This document is important and Churchill Auditorium at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference requires your immediate attention.
Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Thursday, 3 February 2011 at 12 noon in order to transact the If you are in any doubt as to the action following business: you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of which Resolutions 17 to 19 will be proposed as special resolutions solicitor, accountant or other independent and all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended If you have sold or otherwise transferred 30 September 2010. all your shares in Compass Group PLC, please send this Notice and the 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the accompanying documents to the financial year ended 30 September 2010. purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent 3.
To declare a final dividend of 12.5 pence per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2010. through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the 4.
To re-elect Sir Roy Gardner as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Gary Green as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Andrew Martin as a Director of the Company.
See this Report online at: www.
To re-elect Sir James Crosby as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Steve Lucas as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Susan Murray as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Don Robert as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Ian Robinson as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to agree the Auditors remuneration.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or becomes, a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this Resolution relates to: 15.1 mak e donations to political parties or independent election candidates: and 15.2 make donations to political organisations other than political parties: and 15.3 incur political expenditure, during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and ending on the date of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, provided that any such donations and expenditure made by the Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not exceed 125,000 per company and, together with those made by any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed in aggregate 125,000.
Any terms used in this Resolution which are defined in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning for the purposes of this Resolution 15.
130 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information 16.
To renew the power conferred on the Directors by Article 12 19.
To authorise the Directors to call a general meeting of the of the Companys Articles of Association for a period expiring Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company than 14 clear days notice, provided that this authority shall after the date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of 2 May 2012: for that period the section 551 amount shall be the Company after the date of the passing of this Resolution.
62,895,500 and, in addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased by 62,895,500, provided that the Directors power in Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
respect of such latter amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue: By Order of the Board Mark J White i t o holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as General Counsel and Company Secretary may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 22 December 2010 ii t o holders of other equity securities as required by the Registered Office: rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise Compass House considers necessary, Guildford Street Chertsey and that the Directors may impose any limits or restriction and Surrey KT16 9BQ make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
To renew, subject to the passing of Resolution 16 above, the power conferred on the Directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association, such authority to apply until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 2 May 2012 and for that period the section 561 amount is 9,434,331.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of that Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company subject to the following conditions: 18.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 188,686,632: 18.2 the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 pence: 18.3 th e maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is, in respect of a share contracted to be purchased on any day, an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is made: and 18.4 t his authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 2 August 2012, whichever is the earlier except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded prior to the expiry of this authority and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 131 Shareholder information Notice of meeting Resolution 15 Donations to Political Parties Explanatory notes to the Resolutions It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts However, it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by The Directors are required to present to the Annual General Meeting the Company and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within AGM the Meeting the audited accounts and the Directors and the wide definition of matters constituting political donations and Auditors Reports for the financial year ended 30 September 2010. expenditure in the CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under the CA 2006 must first be approved by shareholders and Resolution 2 Directors Remuneration Report will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
This Resolution, In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 if passed, will renew the Directors authority until the AGM to be the CA 2006, shareholders are requested to approve the held in 2012 when the Directors intend to renew this authority to Directors Remuneration Report.
This Resolution is advisory and make donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be does not affect the actual remuneration paid to any individual caught by the terms of the CA 2006, up to an aggregate amount Director.
It serves to provide shareholder feedback to the of 125,000 for the Company and for subsidiary companies.
Resolution 16 Directors Authority to Allot Shares The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 55 to 62 The purpose of Resolution 16 is to renew the Directors power of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2010 Annual Report 2010 to allot shares.
The first part of Resolution 16 seeks to grant the and includes the Companys policy on Directors remuneration for Directors authority to allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys the next financial year and for the years subsequent to that, details Articles of Association and section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant of the Directors emoluments for the year, and the Total Shareholder securities with a maximum nominal amount of 62,895,500.
This Return TSR of the Company and that of the FTSE 100 Index since represents 628,955,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the 1 October 2005. capital of the Company, which is approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 24 November 2010 Resolution 3 Final Dividend being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2010 will Notice.
The Company does not currently hold any shares as be paid on 28 February 2011 to shareholders on the register treasury shares.
The authority would, unless previously renewed, at the close of business on 28 January 2011, subject to approval revoked or varied by shareholders, remain in force up to the by shareholders.
conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2012, or 2 May 2012, whichever is earlier.
Resolutions 4 to 12 Re-election of Directors Biographical details of all the Directors standing for re-election In accordance with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines, appear on page 44 of the Annual Report 2010. the second part of Resolution 16 seeks to grant the Directors authority to allot approximately a further one-third of the Companys Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the issued ordinary share capital in connection with a rights issue Directors are required to retire by rotation each year and, in addition, in favour of ordinary shareholders with a nominal value of up no Director may serve for more than three years without being to 62,895,500 representing 628,955,000 ordinary shares of re-elected by shareholders.
However, in accordance with the UK 10 pence each.
Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman is satisfied The total authorisation sought by Resolution 16 is equal to that, following individual formal performance evaluations, the approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of performance of the Directors standing for re-election continues the Company excluding treasury shares as at 24 November 2010, to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
being the last practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Resolutions 13 and 14 Auditors Resolutions 1 to 16 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Auditors are appointed at every general meeting at which accounts require that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment of Deloitte a resolution for it to be passed.
LLP as the Companys Auditors will end at the conclusion of the AGM and it has advised its willingness to stand for re-appointment.
It is normal practice for a companys directors to be authorised to agree how much the Auditors should be paid and Resolution 14 grants this authority to the Directors.
132 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Resolution 17 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Beyond the share buy-back programme referred to on page 46 of If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash the Annual Report 2010, the Directors have no present intention of other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing but they consider it desirable to provide maximum flexibility in the holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought management of the Companys capital resources.
The Directors by the Directors to issue a limited number of ordinary shares for would only purchase shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect cash without offering them to existing shareholders.
would be to result in an increase in earnings per share and would benefit shareholders generally.
Resolution 17 seeks to renew the Directors authority to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without application of As at 24 November 2010 being the last practicable date prior to pre-emption rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles the publication of this Notice, there were options outstanding over of Association and section 561 of the CA 2006.
Other than in approximately 32,000,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the Company which represent 1.7% of the Companys issued ordinary authority contained in this Resolution would be limited to a maximum share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the authority nominal amount of 9,434,331.
This represents 94,343,310 ordinary to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, which is these options would represent 1.9% of the Companys issued approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
at 24 November 2010 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
The authority would, unless previously Resolution 19 Notice of Meetings other than renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, expire at the conclusion of Annual General Meetings the AGM of the Company to be held in 2012 or on 2 May 2012 if earlier.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to call general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share days notice.
However, the Companies Shareholders Rights schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the Directors have Regulations 2009 the Regulations require that all general meetings no current plans to utilise either of the authorities sought by be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter Resolutions 16 and 17 although they consider their renewal notice period, and the Company has met the requirements for appropriate in order to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage electronic voting under the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks to of business opportunities as they arise.
In addition, and in line with renew the authority granted by shareholders at last years AGM best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its which preserved the Companys ability to call general meetings, issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis over the last three years other than AGMs, on 14 clear days notice, such authority to be and the Board confirms its intention to follow best practice set out in effective until the Companys next AGM, when a similar resolution the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles which provides that will be proposed.
usage of this authority in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in a rolling three-year period would not take place Resolutions 17 to 19 will be proposed as special resolutions and without prior consultation with shareholders.
require that at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
Resolution 18 Purchase of own Shares This Resolution authorises the Directors to make limited on-market Recommendation purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited The Directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best to a maximum of 188,686,632 shares just under 10% of the issued interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and, ordinary share capital as at 24 November 2010, being the last accordingly, recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and details Resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of own holdings.
The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 18 months from the passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003.
These regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authority to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will be treated as if cancelled.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 133 Shareholder information Notice of meeting iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Important information Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the Proxies Company specifies that only those shareholders registered i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the 2011 AGM may in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of the 1 February 20 11, or in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any vote at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the proxy must be appointed for different shares.
Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Proxies may only be appointed by: Members after 6.00 p. m. on 1 February 2011 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of t completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed with any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the this Notice to PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
com and following the Nominated persons instructions for electronic submission provided there: or Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person t by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information are a user of the CREST system including CREST personal rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear him or her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, website www.
com CREST for further information.
have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy Return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a shareholder appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the if you do attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to solely for the purpose of enabling shareholders to register the Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note can only appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to AGM business communicate with the Company for any other purposes other Under section 338A of the CA 2006, shareholders may request than those expressly stated.
the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at annual general meetings any matter other than a proposed Resolution ii To be effective the Form of Proxy must be completed in which may be properly included in the business, provided that it is accordance with the instructions and received by the Registrars not defamatory, frivolous or vexatious.
The Company will include of the Company by 12 noon on Tuesday, 1 February 2011. such matter if sufficient requests have been received in accordance with section 338A 3 of the CA 2006 which, broadly, requires a To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously minimum of 100 shareholders holding an average of 1,000 ordinary appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message shares each or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon issued share capital to make the request, and submitted in the on Tuesday, 1 February 2011.
Please note, however, that proxy manner detailed in section 338A of the CA 2006. messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, bank holidays or after 8.00 p. m. on any other day.
For the purpose of Right to ask questions this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Under section 319A of the CA 2006, shareholders have the right to determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the meeting CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other unduly with the business of the meeting, involve the disclosure of CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that confidential information, if the answer has already been published on have appointed voting service provider s should contact their the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
134 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Website publication of audit concerns The total voting rights in the Company as at 24 November 2010 Under section 527 of the CA 2006, shareholders have a right to were 1,886,866,329. request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at the AGM relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including Information available on website the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be The following information is available on the Companys website at submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances connected to the www.
com: Companys Auditors who ceased to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company will publish the statement if sufficient requests have i The matters set out in this Notice of Meeting: been received in accordance with section 527 2 of the CA 2006 ii The total voting rights and number and shares of each class in which, broadly, requires a minimum of 100 shareholders holding an respect of which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting average of 1,000 ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at rights at the AGM: least 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital to make the iii Shar eholders rights to include business to be dealt with at the request.
The Company may not require the members requesting any AGM: and such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such iv Shareholders statements, Resolutions and matters of business request.
Where a statement is published, the Company will forward received by the Company after 22 December 2010. the statement to the Companys Auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business AGM information which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to Time of the Meeting The doors of The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre will be open publish on its website.
at 10.30 a. m. and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
Voting at AGM If you are planning to attend the AGM, The Queen Elizabeth II The Company proposes that all Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more Conference Centre is located in the City of Westminster and a map is printed on the Attendance Card attached to the Form of Proxy, accurate reflection of the views of all of the Companys shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of which accompanies this Notice.
shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting but who have appointed a proxy for the Meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has Attending the AGM one vote for each share held.
If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card with you.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote at the The voting results, which will include all votes cast for and against AGM and will speed your admission.
You may also find it useful to bring this Notice of AGM and the Annual Report 2010 so that you each Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the Meeting, will be announced at the Meeting and published on can refer to them at the AGM.
All joint shareholders may attend and speak at the AGM.
However, only the first shareholder listed on the the Companys website as soon as practicable after the Meeting.
The Company will also disclose the number of votes withheld.
Register of Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the Company, and subject to sufficient seating capacity, a shareholder may enter with one guest, provided that the shareholder and their Documents available for inspection guest register to enter the AGM at the same time.
Copies of the service agreements of the Executive Directors, the letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors, the Directors deeds of indemnity and the Register of Directors Interests will be Questions All shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask available for inspection during normal business hours from the date of dispatch of this Notice until the date of the AGM Saturdays, questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to ask a question, please wait for a Company representative to Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company and will also be made available at the Meeting for a period bring you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name before you ask your question.
A question may not be answered of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the Meeting.
at the Meeting if it is considered not to be in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the Total voting rights disclosure of sensitive information.
The Chairman may also nominate As at 24 November 2010 being the last practicable date prior to a representative to answer a specific question after the Meeting or the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital refer the question to the Companys website.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a vote by poll every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that all votes on the Resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of a poll.
Online access See this Report online at: www.
com annualreport10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 135 Shareholder information Notice of meeting Voting Enquiries It is proposed that voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll, Capita Registrars maintain the Companys share register.
If you rather than a show of hands, so that all votes tendered are taken into have any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, you account.
If you come to the AGM, you will be given a hand held should contact Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, voting device.
After each Resolution is put to the Meeting, you will be Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0GA.
asked to cast your vote by pressing a button on your device.
All of the votes of the shareholders present will be counted, and added BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary to those received by proxy, and the provisional final votes will be Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding displayed on a screen at the front of the Meeting.
If you have already of Compass American Depositary shares, you should contact voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the Meeting and your BNY Mellon, Shareholder Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, vote on the day will replace your previously lodged proxy vote.
Not attending the AGM Data protection statement Whoever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from voting as Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your he or she decides on any other business, which may validly come behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name before the AGM.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number service.
Details of how to complete the appointment of a proxy either attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the electronically or on paper are given in the notes to this Notice and on purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data the accompanying Form of Proxy.
The Company and any third party to which it discloses the data including the Companys Registrars may process Venue arrangements your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the For security reasons, all hand baggage may be subject to examination.
Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the Please note that laptop computers, recording equipment, cameras shareholder rights you exercise.
and similar such equipment may not be brought into the AGM.
Briefcases, umbrellas and other bulky items should be deposited Published information in the cloakroom, situated on the ground floor.
If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Annual Report 2010 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large Smoking is not permitted inside The Queen Elizabeth II Conference print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Centre.
Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
Please ensure that mobile telephones and other electronic equipment such as BlackBerries are switched off throughout the AGM.
Tea and coffee will be available in the reception area before the AGM.
Light refreshments will be served after the AGM.
The following facilities will be available at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre: t sound amplification hearing loop: t wheelchair access: and t sign language interpreters.
Anyone accompanying a shareholder in need of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any shareholder with a disability has any question regarding attendance at the AGM, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by 20 January 2011.
Security Security staff will be on duty to assist shareholders.
The Company will not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons security, safety or the good order of the AGM.
136 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
