Consolidated financial statements In relation to cash flow hedges forward currency contracts to hedge For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that asset or liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition become vested.
cost and carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are The pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value when the future sale actually occurs.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide other post-employment benefits.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for of employment using a similar basis to that used for defined hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss benefit pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no comprehensive income.
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the period.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the R Leases requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the Group Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the has applied IFRS 2 to all equity-settled share options granted lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership after 7 November 2002 that had vested before 1 January 2005. to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each directly against income.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise Payments made under operating leases are charged to income on restrictions and behavioural considerations.
a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Any incentives to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the over the lease term.
portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
S Provisions Holiday pay Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be employee benefit and are charged to the income statement as the required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the benefits are earned.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date Directors best estimate of the cost of settling these liabilities and to reflect the fair value of holidays earned but not taken.
are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
T Employee benefits Pension obligations Payments made to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense when they fall due.
Payments made to statemanaged schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 75
