123 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GLOSSARY OF TERMS The Group Organic growth Aegis Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Organic growth represents the constant currency year on year growth after adjusting for the effect of businesses acquired or Aegis Media disposed of since the beginning of the prior year.
The media services division of Aegis Group plc.
Constant currency results Synovate Constant currency results are calculated by restating prior year The market research division of Aegis Group plc.
local currency amounts using current year exchange rates.
Underlying results Billings Underlying operating profit, underlying profit before interest and The annualised value of media purchased and or managed on tax, underlying profit before tax, and underlying profit after tax behalf of clients, before agency discounts.
are operating profit, profit before interest and tax, profit before tax, and profit after tax respectively, stated before those items Sales of financial performance that the Group believes should be Commissions from clients for research services to be provided separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the by the Group.
Sales convert to revenue in accordance with the underlying performance achieved by the Group and its revenue recognition policy and the timing of delivery of research businesses adjusting items.
In the opinion of the Directors, services.
such adjusting items are material by nature or amount and may include impairment charges, profits and losses on disposals of Orders on hand investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets being The cumulative value of projects recorded in sales, which have amortisation charged on separately identifiable intangible assets not been completed and recognised within revenue in the year.
in acquired businesses, unrealised gains and losses on nonhedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and Turnover losses on liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and Represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Group one-off items which are material by nature or amount in the on behalf of clients, together with fees invoiced for media and opinion of the Directors, and any related tax thereon, as research services provided.
Adjusting items may also include specific tax items such as the benefit arising on the reduction of certain tax Revenue liabilities in a particular period and deferred tax liabilities for tax The value of media and research fees and commission earned deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred tax by the Group.
liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Gross profit Media and research income after deduction of all direct costs.
Adjusting items are classified as operating, non-operating and financing according to the nature of the underlying income or Net revenue expense.
Research income after deduction of all direct costs which is equivalent to gross profit.
This item is used in respect of Goodwill Synovate only.
The difference between the fair value of purchase consideration of a business as a whole and the aggregate fair value of its Gross margin separable net assets.
Gross profit stated as a percentage of turnover.
Non-controlling interests Operating profit Partial ownership of subsidiary undertakings by external Gross profit less operating expenses.
Operating margin Faster growing regions Operating profit stated as a percentage of revenue.
Faster growing regions comprise Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Asia Pacific, and the Middle East and Africa.
Net new business The estimated annualised value of media billings gained less the estimated annualised value of media billings lost.
Reported growth Reported growth represents the year on year growth including the effect of new businesses acquired or disposed of during the year and movements in exchange rates.
