108 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 further informAtion GlossAry of terms bAsis Point loAn to vAlue ltv A unit that is equal to 1 100th of 1 per cent.
Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of total property assets investment, owner occupied and trading properties.
brixton On 24 August 2009, SEGRO plc acquired the entire net initiAl yield issued capital of Brixton plc company number 202342.
Annualised current cash passing rent less non-recoverable On acquisition of Brixton plc, shares were delisted and property expenses such as empty rates, divided by the property the company was re-registered as Brixton Limited.
valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
develoPment PiPeline The Groups current programme of developments authorised or net rentAl income in the course of construction at the balance sheet date, together Gross rental income less ground rents paid, service with potential schemes not yet commenced on land owned or charge expenses and property operating expenses.
PAssinG rent enlArGed GrouP The annual cash rental income currently receivable on With effect from 24 August 2009, the combined SEGRO Group a property as at the balance sheet date which may be and Brixton Group.
ePrA Pre-let The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion body who have issued Best Practices Recommendations in order of a development.
to provide consistency and transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
reit A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Estate equivAlent yield Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must The internal rate of return from an investment property, based be listed on a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly on the value of the property assuming the current passing engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property becomes fully ongoing qualifications.
SEGRO plc and its UK subsidiaries elected occupied over time.
True equivalent yield assumes rent is for REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007. received quarterly in advance.
rent roll estimAted rentAl vAlue erv See passing rent.
The estimated annual market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually by the Companys valuers.
This squAre metres sq m will normally be different from the rent being paid.
The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is estimAte to comPlete etc 1 square metre 10.639 square feet.
Costs still to be expended on a development or redevelopment to practical completion not to complete lettings, including tAkebAck attributable interest.
Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break option, surrender or insolvency.
GeArinG Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity excluding toPPed uP net initiAl yield intangible assets and deferred tax provisions.
Net Initial Yield adjusted to include notional rent in respect of let properties which are subject to a rent free period at Gross rentAl income the valuation date.
This is an accordance with EPRAs Best Contracted rental income recognised in the period, including Practices Recommendations.
surrender premiums and interest receivable on finance leases.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted future rental totAl ProPerty return tPr increases are amortised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
A measure of the ungeared return for the portfolio and is calculated as the total realised and unrealised property gain hectAres hA or loss plus net rental income, expensed as a percentage The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
The conversion of capital employed.
factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
totAl shAreholder return tsr Joint venture Total shareholder return based upon share price movement An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is jointly over the period and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and For full Glossary of Terms go to http: www.
com segro Investors financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
htm GO ONLINE To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and figures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication of breaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price is always displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, SEGRO.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to find business space that fits their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer care are also featured on the site.
cOm The printer and paper manufacturing mill are both accredited with ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems and are both Forestry Stewardship Council certified.
Royle Print is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc This Report was printed by Royle Print using soya based inks.
By printing the Annual Report on Cocoon Silk 100% recycled paper the environmental impact was reduced by: Registered office SEGRO plc 4,267 kg of landfill Cunard House 89,813 liters of water 15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR 11,531 kWh of electricity 1,076kg CO of greenhouse gases 2 Registered in England and Wales Registered office number 167591 6,936 kg of wood SEGRO plc annual REpORt 2010 SEGRO plc Cunard House 15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR Tel: 44 0 20 7451 9100 Fax: 44 0 20 7451 9150
