Shaftes 10 AW Reports Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:17 Page 67 The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for the the Annual Report, the Directors maintenance and integrity of the Remuneration Report and the financial Companys website.
Legislation in the statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom governing the law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Company law requires the Directors to legislation in other jurisdictions.
prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Each of the Directors, whose names and Directors have elected to prepare the functions are listed on the inside back group and parent company financial cover confirm that, to the best of their statements in accordance with knowledge: International Financial Reporting the Group financial statements, which Standards IFRSs as adopted by the have been prepared in accordance European Union.
Under company law with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give the Directors must not approve the a true and fair view of the assets, financial statements unless they are liabilities, financial position and profit satisfied that they give a true and fair of the Group: and view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or the Directors report contained in the loss of the Group for that period.
In Annual Report includes a fair review preparing these financial statements, of the development and performance the Directors are required to: of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of select suitable accounting policies and the principal risks and uncertainties then apply them consistently: that it faces.
make judgements and accounting The Directors confirmation in accordance estimates that are reasonable and with Section 418 of the Companies Act prudent: 2006 is contained within the Directors state whether applicable IFRSs as Report on page 54. adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
67 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 directors responsibilities directors responsibilities
