Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance statement Remuneration report Information and professional development Relations with shareholders The Board receives detailed reports from executive management on the The Board remains committed to maintaining good relationships with performance of the Group at its Board meetings and other information shareholders.
There is a good dialogue with institutional shareholders, as necessary.
Regular updates are provided on relevant legal, corporate although care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information governance and financial reporting developments and Directors are is released at the same time to all shareholders, in accordance with the encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role.
requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer meet with institutional shareholders on a Appropriate training and induction is made available to any newly appointed regular basis and are available for additional meetings where requested.
Director, having regard to any previous experience they may have as a Institutional shareholders will in future be given the opportunity to meet Director of a public company or otherwise.
An on-going programme of training with the Chairman and or other Non-Executive Directors if they have is in place and all members of the Board are encouraged to partake of this concerns that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the Chief Executive programme.
Directors are also encouraged to devote an element of their Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
time to self development through available training.
This is in addition to any guidance that may be given from time to time from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the Chief Executive Officer and All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company the other Executive Directors and shareholders and ensuring that the Secretary.
The Company Secretary is also the secretary for all the Board views of the shareholders are made known to the Board: this includes committees.
The removal and appointment of the Company Secretary is a feedback prepared by the Groups brokers on meetings held with matter reserved for Board approval.
The Board also obtains advice from institutional shareholders.
professional advisers as and when required.
The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective communication Performance evaluation with all of its shareholders.
An annual financial report is distributed to all Due to the infancy of the Board, a formal process for performance shareholders and to other parties, who may have an interest in the Groups evaluation has not yet been established.
In line with the requirements of performance.
This report, together with a wide range of other information, the Code, the Board intends to introduce a Board effectiveness process in including the half-yearly financial report, interim management statements, compliance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code in 2011 to ensure regulatory announcements and current details of the Companys share price, that its performance and that of its Chairman, committees and Directors are made available on the Companys website.
Insurance Re-election The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of any All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting potential litigation against Directors.
following their appointment by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association state that at every Annual General Meeting any Director who has Board committees been a Director at each of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and The Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the who was not appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting Remuneration Committee are standing committees of the Board.
at, or since, such meeting, shall retire as Director.
A retiring Director shall be The written terms of reference of the committees, including their objectives eligible for re-appointment.
In practice this means that every Director stands and the authority delegated to them by the Board, are available upon for re-election at least once every three years.
request from the Company Secretary or via the Groups website at The Board explains the reasons why it believes each Director should be www.
com and are reviewed at least annually by the relevant elected or re-elected in the Notice of Meeting for the next Annual General committee and the Board.
All committees have access to independent Meeting.
As referred to above, those Directors who held office during the expert advice.
The chairman of each committee reports to the Board.
relevant period will be subject to election at the forthcoming Annual General The constitution and terms of reference of each committee are reviewed Meeting.
The Board believes that their performance continues to be effective annually to ensure that the committees are operating effectively and any and that their election is also consistent with the Boards evaluation of the changes considered necessary are recommended to the Board for approval.
size, structure and composition of the Board.
Conflicts of Interest A register of conflicts of interests is maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings The Directors attendance record for the relevant period at the Board and committee meetings was as follows: Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Charles Gregson Non-Executive Chairman 10 10 5 5 3 3 3 3 Tim Kelly Non-Executive Director 4 10 1 5 1 3 2 3 Peter Morgan Non-Executive Director 9 10 5 5 3 3 3 3 Hamish Ogston Non-Executive Director 9 10 Les Owen Non-Executive Director 3 5 1 2 2 2 2 2 Shaun Parker Chief Financial Officer 10 10 Patrick fide Smedt Non-Executive Director 7 7 2 2 2 2 Eric Woolley Chief Executive Officer 9 10 The figures in brackets represent the maximum number of meetings from Admission for which the individual was a Board committee member.
