Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance statement Remuneration report Charitable and political donations The Groups Risk Policy summarises the processes used to identify, evaluate During the year donations to local charities made by the Group amounted to and monitor risks faced in each of the Groups operating geographical markets 30,000 2009: 36,000. as well as the Boards appetite for risk.
A series of Group Board Policies and delegated responsibilities, together with ongoing management oversight and No political donations were made during the year 2009: nil.
support, are in place to manage the principal risks.
The impacts which varying economic, social and political conditions in individual countries have on the Substantial shareholdings Groups risk profile are regularly considered and appropriate management On 2 March 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the actions implemented.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of the notifiable interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company set out in the Regulation table below.
As far as the Directors are aware as at 2 March 2011 no person The Group has a number of regulated subsidiaries and as such the risks of had a beneficial interest in 3% or more of the voting share capital except for non-compliance with current regulation, continuance of the Groups licence the following: to trade in any given territory or future changes to regulatory frameworks are ever present.
Strong oversight and governance procedures coupled with a Ordinary robust prudential risk management framework are maintained centrally and shares in each key territory to maximise operational and financial compliance.
Name thousands % Hamish Ogston 98,021 57% Developments in the regulatory environment are closely monitored and the Group pro-actively responds to potential future change.
As set out in their Vidacos Nominees Ltd 5,610 3% recent discussion paper on product intervention, one such development is Chase Nominees Ltd 5,484 3% the approach of the Financial Services Authority FSA, the regulator for the Hamish Ogston holds 57% of the issued shares of the Company.
Under Groups main products in the UK, in seeking to influence product design in the terms of a Relationship Agreement between Hamish Ogston and the the sector.
This may result in changes to the Groups product development Company dated 18 March 2010 for so long as Hamish Ogston or any person processes, extended lead times in bringing new products or product changes connected to him holds, in aggregate, 30 per cent.
or more of the ordinary to market and increased management overhead to deal with higher levels shares in the capital of the Company or the attached voting rights in these of interaction with the regulator, each of which could adversely affect the shares Hamish Ogston and each person connected to him shall not: Groups sales and profitability.
Vote in favour of, or propose, any resolution to amend the Companys Changes in tax legislation, either direct or indirect, in any of the Groups Articles of Association which would be contrary to the principle of the geographic operating markets are ever present.
The impact of emerging tax independence of the Company from Hamish Ogston and each person legislation is monitored by management and the Board.
Appropriate action connected to him : would be taken to mitigate any adverse impact from crystallisation of tax legislation changes.
Take any action which precludes any member of the Group from carrying on its business independently of Hamish Ogston and each person connected Business Partner relationships to him : and The Group mainly operates a Business to Business to Consumer model and as such a relatively high proportion of the Groups revenue is attributable to Take any action or omit to take any action to prejudice the Companys relationships with its Business Partners.
Future revenues could be adversely status as a listed company or its suitability for listing, or the Companys impacted by deterioration of existing, or failure to develop new, Business compliance with the Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules, save in Partner relationships.
In addition, if the Groups Business Partners merge circumstances of a takeover or merger of the Company.
with, or are acquired by, other entities that are not already Business Partners, such Business Partners may reduce or discontinue their use of Going concern the Groups services.
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis consistent with their views, formed after making appropriate enquiries, Relationships with key Business Partners are actively managed on a local as outlined in the Corporate Governance statement on page 52, which is by basis, and globally where appropriate, to ensure that the value to the Group reference part of the Directors report.
of these relationships is optimised.
A large majority of the UKs Phonesafe business revenue is attributable to Principal risks and uncertainties the Groups relationship with one Business Partner, T-Mobile.
The current The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, and the actions taken contract between the Group and T-Mobile runs until 31 December 2011, by the Directors to address these, are: unless terminated early by T-Mobile giving six months notice to the Group Geographic markets following completion of the T-Mobile merger.
Active discussions, in The Group has existing and proposed operations in several geographic connection with provision of services for 2012 and beyond, are currently markets with varying levels of business maturity in terms of size, operating taking place with senior management.
The Group is subject to the risks inherent in Across the Group, external pressures arise from competitive activities, international operations.
Business Partners pressure on commercial margins or the ability to establish and grow operations.
The Group proactively addresses these competitive pressures through seeking to develop new products, enhancing existing products, improving the customer experience and operating through a diversity of marketing and customer acquisition channels.
