70 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying accounting policies Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
A deferred tax asset in relation to US goodwill has not been recognised on the basis that a change in control of the Group may result in a loss of that asset.
This is considered appropriate as the Directors are not entitled to direct or restrict trading in the Companys shares and so are not in a position to conclude on the likelihood of such a change in ownership.
Recognition of this deferred tax asset would reduce the tax charge for the year.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Fair values of share based payments Determining the fair value of share options granted requires estimation of share price volatility, expected option exercise dates within a range, risk free rates of return and dividend yields.
Details of the assumptions made are given in note 30.
Changes to assumptions would change the share based payment charge for current and subsequent periods.
Valuations for equity settled share based payments are set at grant and revised for changes in non market conditions.
Amortisation of deferred insurance acquisition costs Determining the amortisation period for deferred acquisition costs of insurance revenues requires estimation of the lives of insurance policies and cancellation profiles based on historical information, taking account of known events impacting on forecast lives and cancellations.
Details of assumptions made are given in note 7.
Changes to assumed policy lives or cancellation profiles would change the periods in which the acquisition costs are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill impairment reviews Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Details of key assumptions made are given in note 15.
Any shortfall between the carrying amount of goodwill and its fair value is recognised as an impairment charge in the consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets arising from contractual arrangements with third parties Where contractual payments have given rise to future economic benefits, these amounts are carried in intangible assets and amortised over the contract terms.
The amortisation profile is calculated based on estimated future renewal performance.
This performance is derived from historical renewal performance.
Changes to the estimates of renewal performance could change the periods in which the contractual payments are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Current tax The Group is required to estimate the corporation tax payable for the year in each of the territories in which it operates.
Applicable tax regulations are complex and require that judgement be exercised in calculating the taxable profit.
In many countries in which the Group operates, filed tax positions remain open to challenge by local tax authorities for several years.
Corporation tax is therefore accrued based on the Directors assessment of territory specific tax law and likelihood of settlement.
Any changes to estimates of uncertain tax positions would be reflected in the consolidated income statement.
