46 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Sales channel management Auditors The Group uses a selected number of sales channels to take its products Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report to market.
A risk to revenue growth arises if existing channels cease to be confirms that: available or viable and the Group is not able to identify and exploit alternative So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of channels.
An example of this is in Hong Kong, where heightened public which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and concern over the transfer of personal data to third parties for marketing purposes resulted in a temporary suspension of all third-party marketing The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a across businesses in Hong Kong.
This affected our telemarketing channels Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information in 2010 which we expect to resume in 2011, once the regulator has clarified and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the The Group is actively exploring and investing in new and alternative sales provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. channels through which to distribute its products to end customers.
The Directors have appointed Deloitte LLP as the Companys first Auditors.
Data security, IT and telephony systems Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as The nature of the Groups products, sales channels and delivery models Auditors.
Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at mean that its reputation, cash flows or operations could be adversely affected the Annual General Meeting.
by failures of the Groups own IT or telephony systems or those provided by third parties.
Examples of such failures include: temporary or permanent loss of customers data, security breaches or adverse impacts to contractual By order of the Board service levels.
The Group continues to invest significant capital in the maintenance, Paula Watts improvement and security of its IT and data management systems Company Secretary applications, databases, platforms, telephony systems and networks for its worldwide operations and for the security of customers data.
2 March 2011 Key performance indicators of the Groups key supplier network, their equipment and services are actively and continuously monitored.
The UK business, which operates the Groups international IT data and telephony networks, is ISO 27001 and the majority of countries in the Group are PCI DSS the payment card industry data security standard certified.
Fraud The Groups product base, in particular the insurance of mobile phone handsets Phonesafe in the UK, introduces an inherent risk of claims fraud.
A specific operational team monitors external fraud and actions are taken to minimise claims settlements that might be fraudulent.
The Groups Policy on Fraud & Corruption requires managers and staff to act honestly, with integrity and to safeguard all Group resources for which they are responsible at all times.
Additionally, management oversight and controls are designed to be able to identify and minimise inherent fraud risks.
Financial risks The Groups operations expose it to financial risks including foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and insurance risks.
Further details of these risks, together with mitigating actions, are provided in note 28 to the financial statements.
