Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance statement Remuneration report 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Committee considers that this combination of performance conditions The 2010 LTIP is aimed at incentivising executives post Admission.
Under is the most appropriate way of rewarding Executive Directors because it this plan, Executive Directors and key individuals may be awarded each year takes into account both the long term returns to shareholders and the conditional entitlements to ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum Groups financial growth.
The TSR performance condition is monitored on of 200% of salary.
However, in practice, awards will not be made at this level the Committees behalf by HNBS whilst the Groups EPS growth is derived instead normal LTIP awards not exceeding a face value of 125% of salary from the audited financial statements.
and 100% of salary can be made to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
Lower levels of awards are made to less Other share plans senior executives.
2010 Restricted Stock Plan RSP The RSP is a non performance based share plan aimed to incentivise the Awards have a three year vesting period and the initial awards granted in second level of management across the Group and Executive Directors are March 2010 are subject to performance conditions relating to adjusted not eligible to participate.
Employment is the only performance condition Earnings Per Share EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR as follows: attached to this plan.
75% of the award is dependent on the satisfaction of an EPS performance UK Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE target.
EPS will be measured over the three years ending 31 December The Company launched a Save As You Earn scheme in September 2010, also 2012 and vesting will occur on the following basis: known as the ShareSAVE Plan.
All employees in the UK, including Executive EPS growth over the Vesting percentage of 75% of the Directors, are eligible to participate in the SAYE scheme.
Options outstanding performance period total award during the year were granted under this scheme in September 2010 at an Less than 12% p. a.
0% option price of 198 pence, representing a discount of 20% to the market value applicable at the time of grant.
Consistent with HMRC rules, the scheme is Equal to 12% p. a.
25% not subject to any performance criteria other than employment.
Equal to or greater than 17% p. a.
On a straight-line basis Dilution limits In line with the ABI guidelines the rules of the post IPO incentive schemes The above EPS targets, at the discretion of the Committee, may be provide that: amended if RPI over the performance period is negative or greater than 4% p. a.
The Committee notes that RPI is at the upper end of this range and is Commitments to issue new shares or re-issue treasury shares, when keeping any potential change to targets under review.
The EPS calculation aggregated with awards under all of the Companys other schemes, must is based on a fully diluted basis, adjusted for taxation and other items to not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in any rolling 10 year reflect underlying financial performance.
25% of the award is dependent upon the Companys TSR performance Commitments to issue new shares or re-issue treasury shares under over a single three year period which, for the initial awards, commences executive discretionary schemes should not exceed 5% of the issued on the Admission date against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding ordinary share capital of the Company in any rolling 10 year period any Investment Trusts.
Vesting for this portion of the award will occur on commencing on Admission.
the following basis: Current headroom under these limits is 9.5% and 5% respectively.
All awards under executive discretionary schemes were made pre Admission.
TSR ranking against the Vesting percentage of 25% of the comparator group total award Service contracts Below median 0% The policy of the Company is to appoint Executive Directors on six month Median 25% rolling service contracts.
The Articles of Association require a Director to stand Upper quintile 100% for election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their Between median and upper quintile On a straight-line basis appointment and by rotation every three years thereafter.
In addition and notwithstanding the Companys TSR performance, this part The contracts of all the Executive Directors who served during the reporting of the award subject to the TSR condition will only vest to the extent that period are contracts which are subject to notice periods to and from the the Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial performance over company of six months.
Eric Woolley is employed under a service agreement the vesting period warrants the level of vesting under the TSR performance with CPP Holdings Limited formerly named CPP Group Plc prior to its condition.
acquisition by CPPGroup Plc dated 9 May 2008.
Shaun Parker is employed under a service agreement with CPP Group Plc dated 1 January 2010.
The Company may terminate the employment of Executive Directors by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and fixed benefits only.
Currently neither of the Executive Directors holds a NED role elsewhere.
