Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93 Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements 35.
Parent company profit and loss account The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in the Companies Act 2006, Section 408, not to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company reported a profit after tax for the period of 8,989,000 including dividends received from subsidiary undertakings of 13,500,000 during the period.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Company was incorporated as Cranberry 1 Plc on 9 February 2010 and changed its name to CPPGroup Plc on 10 March 2010.
These Company financial statements present the results of the Company for the 46 week period from its incorporation on 9 February 2010 to 31 December 2010.
Since this is the first set of financial statements presented by the Company, there is no comparative information.
The Directors have chosen to present these Company financial statements under the historical cost basis in accordance with applicable law and accounting standards generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
Cash flow statement Under FRS 1 revised Cash Flow Statements the Company is not required to include a cash flow statement within these Company financial statements, since a consolidated cash flow statement for the Group is publicly available.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment has been established.
Share based payments Prior to the Companys shares being admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 24 March 2010, the Company issued share options to certain of the Groups employees through the ESOP.
Subsequent to or conditional on its Admission, the Company has issued share options to certain of the Groups employees under the LTIP, the RSP and the ShareSAVE Plan.
Share options are treated as equity settled if the Company has the ability to determine whether to settle exercises in cash or by the issue of shares.
Share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest, and adjusted for the effect of non market based vesting conditions each period.
The fair value of equity settled share based payments is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in reserves, subject to adjustment for forfeited options.
Share options are treated as cash settled, if the terms of the scheme require or the Directors intend to settle share options with a cash payment.
Cash settled options are measured at fair value at date of grant and then subsequently revalued at each period end.
For cash settled share based payments, a liability is recognised for a proportion, based on the vesting period, of the fair value as calculated at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the provision are charged to the profit and loss account.
The fair value of the options is measured by use of the Black Scholes option pricing model.
Pension costs Pension costs represent contributions made by the Company to defined contribution pension schemes.
These are expensed as incurred.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
As permitted by Section 615 of the Companies Act 2006, shares issued as consideration for acquisition of a subsidiary already under common control are deemed to have been issued at their par value.
Cash at bank and in hand Cash at bank and in hand comprises cash in hand and bank deposits with a term from inception of three months or less, less bank overdrafts where there is a right to offset.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right to offset with cash balances in the same currency.
Financial assets Financial assets of the Company are classified according to their nature and purpose which is determined at the time of initial recognition.
All of the financial assets held by the Company are classified as loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
All financial liabilities of the Company are classified as other financial liabilities.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
