44 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report The Company was incorporated on 9 February 2010 and therefore this report Tim Kelly resigned on 31 December 2010.
In accordance with the Companys does not contain information regarding the Company for that part of the Articles of Association, all Directors holding office will retire from the Board accounting period starting from 1 January 2010 to the Companys date of at the Companys first Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer incorporation on 9 February 2010.
The report focuses on that part of the themselves for re-election.
accounting period starting from when the Company became operational Details of powers of Directors, procedures for appointment and re-election on 9 February 2010 up to and including 31 December 2010 the relevant of Directors, Directors indemnity insurance and procedures for managing period.
Directors conflicts of interest are included in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 48 to 52.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group during the relevant period were the Biographical details for each Director are set out on pages 40 and 41. provision of Life Assistance products with operations in 15 countries in both Details of committee memberships are set out on pages 49 to 51 of the developed and developing markets.
CPPs products and services are designed Corporate Governance statement.
to meet a range of consumer needs, in particular relating to credit and debit Details of Directors beneficial interests in and options over the Companys card ownership, personal identity, mobile telephones, travel and the home.
shares are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 53 to 58.
The activities of the Group primarily focus on providing customer assistance during stressful life events such as loss or theft of a wallet, purse, mobile These sections are by reference part of the Directors report.
telephone or keys, as well as support in the event of identity theft.
Annual General Meeting Further details of the Groups activities and a review of the business are set The first Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on 19 May out in the Strategy and Performance sections of the Annual Report on pages 2011.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and an explanation of the 12 to 39. non-routine business are set out in the explanatory circular that accompanies Details of the key performance indicators used by the Directors to assist in this Annual Report.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies management of the business and to provide evidence of the achievement of deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to its strategies are included on page 37. vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
Information relating to the environment and employees is included in the Capital structure Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 34 and 35.
Details of the issued share capital, together with movements in the These sections are by reference part of the Directors report.
Companys issued share capital for the period can be found in note 29 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of capital, ordinary shares, Dividends which carry no right to fixed income.
Each fully paid share carries the right to In accordance with the Groups dividend policy, the Directors recommend a one vote at a general meeting of the Company.
final dividend of 5.12 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 25 May 2011 to Details of the Groups employee share schemes are set out in note 30 to the ordinary shareholders on the register on 15 April 2011.
Together with the financial statements.
interim dividend of 2.42 pence paid on 13 September 2010, this makes a total dividend of 7.54 pence per ordinary share for the year.
No dividends were paid A special resolution of shareholders on 18 March 2010 authorised the by the Group in the year ended 31 December 2009.
Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate amount equal to one third of the aggregate amount of the share capital of the Company immediately Directors following its Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
This authority expires The Directors holding office from incorporation up to the date of the Annual on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on Report were: 19 May 2011.
Similar resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority, allowing the Directors to allot ordinary shares equal Appointed Resigned to an amount of up to one third of the Companys existing issued ordinary Charles Gregson Chairman 9 February share capital.
2010 Pursuant to Article 5 of the Companys Articles of Association and subject Eric Woolley Chief Executive 9 February to the provisions of the applicable regulations, statutes and subordinate Officer 2010 legislation, the Company is entitled to purchase its own shares.
Shaun Parker Chief Financial 9 February The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the period.
Officer 2010 Hamish Ogston Non-Executive 9 February Change of control provisions Director 2010 Some agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries are a party may Les Owen Non-Executive 21 September be at risk of termination by counterparties in certain restricted circumstances Director 2010 in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Peter Morgan Non-Executive 9 February Director 2010 Supplier payment policy The Groups policy is to agree terms of payment with all suppliers, ensure Patrick fide Smedt Non-Executive 19 August that these terms are understood, and abide by the agreed terms of payment.
Director 2010 At 31 December 2010 invoiced trade creditors were equivalent to 20 days Tim Kelly Non-Executive 9 February 31 December purchases 2009: 23 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by Director 2010 2010 suppliers during the year.
Duncan McIntyre Non-Executive 1 January Director 2011 48051 Blacksun.
