Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Independent Auditors report Notes to the consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information The CPPGroup Plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Its registered office is Holgate Park, York, YO26 4GA.
The Group comprises CPPGroup Plc and its subsidiaries.
The Groups principal activity during the year was the provision of Life Assistance products.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, the functional currency of the Company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Adoption of new standards New standards adopted The following Standards and Interpretations have become effective and have been adopted in these financial statements.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the Group.
No Standards or Interpretations have been adopted early in these financial statements.
Standard Interpretation Subject IFRS 3 revised January 2008 Business Combinations Amendment to IAS 27 January 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment to IAS 39 July 2008 Eligible Hedged Items IFRS 1 revised November 2008 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Amendment to IFRS 1 July 2009 Additional Exemptions for First Time Adopters Amendment to IFRS 2 June 2009 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Improvements to IFRSs 2009 April 2009 Annual improvements Standards not yet applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: Standard Interpretation Subject Period first applies Year ended IAS 24 revised November 2009 Related Party Disclosures 31 December 2011 Amendment to IAS 32 October 2009 Classification of Rights Issues 31 December 2011 Amendment to IFRIC 14 November 2009 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 31 December 2011 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 31 December 2011 Amendments to IFRS 1 January 2010 Limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for 31 December 2011 first time adoption The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the Group.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements on pages 60 to 91 present the performance of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010.
In accordance with the principles of merger accounting described below, comparative information is provided for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company was incorporated on 9 February 2010 and acquired by way of a share for share exchange the entire issued share capital of CPP Group Plc the previous ultimate holding company of the Group on 24 March 2010 as part of a group reconstruction.
The reconstruction did not change either the identity or relative rights of the ultimate shareholders of CPP Group Plc and, therefore, has been reflected in the consolidated financial statements using the principles of merger accounting for group reconstructions.
The adoption of merger accounting presents the Company as if it had always been the parent undertaking of the Group, and therefore no adjustments to the book values of the assets and liabilities were required at the date of the reconstruction.
As the Company was not incorporated until 9 February 2010, the consolidated results and details of the financial position prior to this date reflect those presented previously as the results and financial position of CPP Group Plc, the former parent of the Group, except that they have been restated in that the share capital of CPP Group Plc has been reclassified to the merger reserve and the share capital for prior periods reflects the Companys shares issued as part of the reconstruction.
Under IFRS the group reconstruction is treated as a common control transaction, for which there is no specific accounting guidance.
Consequently the Board of Directors have had regard to the guidance in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors on the selection of accounting policies and have adopted merger accounting in accordance with the provisions of Financial Reporting Standard 6 in the United Kingdom.
pdf 67 01 04 2011 14:17 66 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Going concern The Board of Directors have, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Further details of the Directors assessment are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 48 to 52.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of the Company and the entities under its control.
Control is defined as the ability to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with Group policies.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisitions of subsidiaries, excluding entities already under common control, are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The costs of acquisition are measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquired business.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010 adjustments to provisional fair values of net assets and consideration identified within 12 months of the date of acquisition are accounted for as an adjustment to goodwill.
Joint ventures Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group share of the net assets of joint ventures, including associated goodwill, is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Government grants Grants receivable from government bodies are recognised to the extent that the Group has substantively met the conditions of the grant.
Grants received in respect of which Group obligations are ongoing are deferred and recognised over the period in which the conditions are fulfilled.
Government grants are presented as a reduction in applicable expenses.
Share based payments Prior to the Companys shares being admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 24 March 2010, the Group issued share options to certain of its employees through the Executive Share Option Plan ESOP.
Costs in relation to the ESOP are presented within legacy scheme share based payments in the consolidated income statement.
Subsequent to or conditional on its Admission, the Group has issued share options to certain of its employees under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Restricted Stock Plan RSP and the ShareSAVE Plan.
Costs in relation to these plans are presented within other administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Share options are treated as equity settled if the Group has the ability to determine whether to settle exercises in cash or by the issue of shares.
Share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest, and adjusted for the effect of non market based vesting conditions each year.
Non market vesting conditions include a change in control of the Group and are considered by the Directors at each year end.
The fair value of equity settled share based payments is expensed in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity, subject to adjustment for forfeited options.
Share options are treated as cash settled if the terms of the scheme require or the Directors intend to settle share options with a cash payment.
Cash settled options are measured at fair value at date of grant and then subsequently revalued at each year end.
For cash settled share based payments, a liability is recognised for a proportion, based on the vesting period, of the fair value as calculated at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the provision are charged to the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of share options is measured by use of the Black Scholes option pricing model.
Assistance products Recognition of revenue Revenue attributable to the Groups assistance products is generally comprised of the prices paid by customers for the assistance products net of underwriting fees and exclusive of any sales taxes.
Revenue is generally split into two categories: introduction fees and claims management fees.
Introduction fees are recognised on inception of the arrangement.
Claims management fees are recognised over the period of the underlying contract and, where revenue is deferred to match the Groups future servicing obligations under assistance product contracts, the amount deferred corresponds to the relevant fair values of the unprovided services.
The amount deferred is sufficient to cover future claims handling costs and an appropriate profit margin, and is calculated by reference to historical experience of claims handling costs and incidence.
Provisions for cancellations are made at the time revenue is recorded and are deducted from revenue.
In the US, and certain other of the Groups assistance products, there are no introduction fees.
In these arrangements, revenue is comprised of the subscriptions received from members, net of underwriting fees and exclusive of any sales taxes.
These subscriptions are recognised over the life of the service provided.
Wholesale, Packaged Accounts and other revenue is generally comprised of fees billed directly to Business Partners, exclusive of any sales taxes, and is recognised as those fees are earned.
pdf 68 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Independent Auditors report Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Cost of sales Cost of sales attributable to the Groups assistance products represents the costs of acquiring customers and includes marketing costs and commissions paid to Business Partners.
Commissions are recognised in line with the revenue to which they relate.
Marketing costs include all telemarketing, direct mail and fulfilment costs.
These costs are expensed as incurred.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain future event other than a change in a financial variable adversely affects the policyholder.
Recognition of revenue Revenue attributable to the Groups insurance contracts comprises premiums paid by customers and is exclusive of any sales taxes and similar duties.
Premiums from insurance policies are recognised as revenue on a straight line basis over the life of the policy.
Provisions for unearned premiums are made, representing the part of gross premiums written that is estimated to be earned in the following or subsequent financial periods, on a straight line basis for each policy.
The provision for unearned premiums is recorded under insurance liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
Cost of sales Cost of sales attributable to the Groups insurance contracts consists of the costs, both direct and indirect, of acquiring insurance policies, commissions, reinsurance premiums payable to third parties and insurance claims incurred net of reinsurance recoveries.
Acquisition costs are amortised over the life of the average policy.
Acquisition costs which are expensed in the following or subsequent accounting periods are recorded in the balance sheet as deferred acquisition costs and include a proportionate allowance for commissions and post sale set up costs incurred in respect of unearned premium not amortised at the balance sheet date.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related business.
Insurance claims provisions Claims incurred comprise the Groups payments for claims and internal settlement expenses during the period together with the movement in the Groups provision for outstanding claims over the period, including an estimate for claims incurred but not reported.
Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement of claims are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which they are settled.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related claims.
Equalisation reserve An equalisation reserve has been established in accordance with the requirements of the Equalisation Reserve Rules contained within the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers and the General Prudential Sourcebook.
Movements on the reserve are shown as a movement between retained earnings and the equalisation reserve.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually.
On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture operation, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
If the recoverable amount of a cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
pdf 69 01 04 2011 14:17 68 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets Externally acquired software Externally acquired software is measured at purchase cost and is amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life of four years.
Internally generated software Internally generated intangible assets arising from the Groups software development programmes are recognised from the point at which the following conditions are met: An asset is created that can be identified: It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated software is amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life of four years.
Contractual arrangements with third parties Some of the Groups contractual arrangements give rise to intangible assets.
Where a contractual payment gives access to and control of future economic benefits, in the form of future renewal income streams, this amount is recognised as an asset and then amortised in line with the forecast benefits over the shorter of the contractual arrangement and the period when benefits are expected to arise.
Intangible assets arising on business combinations Intangible assets arising from business combinations are initially stated at their fair values and amortised over their useful economic lives as follows: Business Partner relationships: In line with projected cash flows Business Partner relationships represent the present value of net revenues and costs expected to arise from contractual arrangements and non-contractual relationships with existing and pipeline Business Partners at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation of contractual arrangements with third parties is charged to cost of sales, amortisation of all other intangible assets is charged to other administrative expenses.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown at purchase cost, net of accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the costs, less estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold property: 40 years straight line Computer systems: 4 years straight line Furniture and equipment: 4 years straight line Leasehold Improvements: Over the shorter of the life of the lease and the asset Freehold land is not depreciated.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and bank deposits with a term from inception of three months or less, less bank overdrafts where there is a right to offset.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right to offset with cash balances in the same currency.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxation The current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit: and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiary undertakings and jointly controlled entities except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
pdf 70 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 Independent Auditors report Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Pension costs Pension costs represent contributions made by the Group to defined contribution pension schemes.
These are expensed as incurred.
Foreign currencies In preparing the financial information of the individual entities that comprise the Group, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of foreign operations, the cumulative amount of exchange differences previously recognised directly in equity for that foreign operation are to be transferred to the consolidated income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Cumulative retranslation differences have been reset to zero at 1 January 2007, the date of transition to IFRS.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial Assets Trade receivables, loans, other receivables, cash, and cash equivalents that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less allowance for any estimated irrecoverable accounts.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in interest rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
