Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Independent Auditors report Notes to the consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information The CPPGroup Plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Its registered office is Holgate Park, York, YO26 4GA.
The Group comprises CPPGroup Plc and its subsidiaries.
The Groups principal activity during the year was the provision of Life Assistance products.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, the functional currency of the Company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Adoption of new standards New standards adopted The following Standards and Interpretations have become effective and have been adopted in these financial statements.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the Group.
No Standards or Interpretations have been adopted early in these financial statements.
Standard Interpretation Subject IFRS 3 revised January 2008 Business Combinations Amendment to IAS 27 January 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment to IAS 39 July 2008 Eligible Hedged Items IFRS 1 revised November 2008 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Amendment to IFRS 1 July 2009 Additional Exemptions for First Time Adopters Amendment to IFRS 2 June 2009 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Improvements to IFRSs 2009 April 2009 Annual improvements Standards not yet applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: Standard Interpretation Subject Period first applies Year ended IAS 24 revised November 2009 Related Party Disclosures 31 December 2011 Amendment to IAS 32 October 2009 Classification of Rights Issues 31 December 2011 Amendment to IFRIC 14 November 2009 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 31 December 2011 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 31 December 2011 Amendments to IFRS 1 January 2010 Limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for 31 December 2011 first time adoption The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the Group.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements on pages 60 to 91 present the performance of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010.
In accordance with the principles of merger accounting described below, comparative information is provided for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company was incorporated on 9 February 2010 and acquired by way of a share for share exchange the entire issued share capital of CPP Group Plc the previous ultimate holding company of the Group on 24 March 2010 as part of a group reconstruction.
The reconstruction did not change either the identity or relative rights of the ultimate shareholders of CPP Group Plc and, therefore, has been reflected in the consolidated financial statements using the principles of merger accounting for group reconstructions.
The adoption of merger accounting presents the Company as if it had always been the parent undertaking of the Group, and therefore no adjustments to the book values of the assets and liabilities were required at the date of the reconstruction.
As the Company was not incorporated until 9 February 2010, the consolidated results and details of the financial position prior to this date reflect those presented previously as the results and financial position of CPP Group Plc, the former parent of the Group, except that they have been restated in that the share capital of CPP Group Plc has been reclassified to the merger reserve and the share capital for prior periods reflects the Companys shares issued as part of the reconstruction.
Under IFRS the group reconstruction is treated as a common control transaction, for which there is no specific accounting guidance.
Consequently the Board of Directors have had regard to the guidance in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors on the selection of accounting policies and have adopted merger accounting in accordance with the provisions of Financial Reporting Standard 6 in the United Kingdom.
