Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
in addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
no reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
on transition to iFRs, the Group did not apply the measurement rules of iFRs 2 to equity settled awards granted before 7 november 2002 or granted after that date and vested before 1 January 2005. however later modifications of such equity instruments are measured under iFRs 2.
Non-current assets held for sale non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
this condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
in the consolidated income statement for the reporting period, and for the comparable period of the previous year, income and expenses from discontinued operations are reported separately from continuing income and expenses down to the level of profit after taxes, even when the Group retains a non-controlling interest in the subsidiary after the sale.
the resulting profit or loss after taxes is reported separately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment once classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
Exceptional items exceptional items are material items which derive from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the reporting entity and which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence if the financial statements are to give a true and fair view.
Dividends Dividends receivable by the Company are recognised in the income statement if they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity paying the dividend, prior to the balance sheet date.
Dividends payable by the Company are recognised when declared and therefore final dividends proposed after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid to shareholders are shown as a movement in equity rather than on the face of the income statement.
Investments investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
PAGe 61 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
