To buy own shares this authority allows the Company Payment policy to buy its own shares in the market, as permitted under the Group and the Company do not have a formal policy that the Articles of Association of the Company, up to a limit they follow with regard to payment to suppliers.
Payment of 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
the terms are agreed with each supplier and every endeavour price to be paid for any share must not be less than 10p, being the nominal value of a share, and must not exceed is made to adhere to the agreed terms.
the average credit 105 per cent of the average middle market quotations terms for the continuing Group, based on the year-end trade for the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from creditors figure and a 365 day year, are 35 days.
the average the London stock exchange Daily official List for the 5 credit taken by our customers on a similar basis is 32 days.
business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
the Directors have no Essential Contracts immediate plans to exercise the powers of the Company to it is imperative that Cranswick is able to source its high purchase its own shares and undertake that the authority quality raw materials at the most competitive prices and would only be exercised if the Directors were satisfied to this end the Company has numerous supply contracts that a purchase would result in an increase in expected in place.
While these contracts are collectively essential to earnings per share and was in the best interests of the Company at the time.
this authority will expire at the end the business, no single contract or supplier is critical to the of the Annual General meeting to be held on 26 July 2010.
the Directors would consider holding any of its own the Company also has strong relationships with certain shares that it purchases pursuant to this authority as major retailers to supply them with product.
Auditors the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue of securities and for voting rights.
in office and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General meeting.
there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than where certain restrictions may apply Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors from time to time, on the Board of Directors and other senior executive staff, which is imposed by laws and regulations the Directors who were members of the Board at the time of relating to insider trading laws and market requirements approving the Directors Report are listed on page 21. having relating to close periods.
made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirm that: Employment policies to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, the Groups policy on employee involvement is to adopt there is no information relevant to the preparation an open management style, thereby encouraging informal of their report of which the Companys auditors are consultation at all levels about aspects of the Groups operations.
unaware: and employees participate directly in the success of the business each Director has taken all the steps a Director might by participation in the sAYe share option schemes.
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
irrespective of colour, ethnic or natural origin, nationality, sex, religion, marital or disabled status.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment by and the continuing employment, training and career development of disabled people.
PAGe 26 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
