Foreign currencies in the accounts of the Groups companies, individual transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the actual exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses on both individual foreign currency transactions during the year and monetary assets and liabilities are dealt with in the income statement.
on consolidation, the income statements of the overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rates for the year and the balance sheets at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
the exchange differences arising as a result of translating income statements at weighted average rates and restating opening net assets at closing rates are taken to the translation reserve and the gain or loss on disposal of an overseas subsidiary is calculated after taking into account cumulative exchange gains or losses in respect of that subsidiary.
Cumulative exchange differences at the date of transition to iFRs were deemed to be nil.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue, and any associated costs can be measured reliably.
Revenue on the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer on despatch and represents the value of sales to customers net of discounts, similar allowances and estimates of returns and excludes value added tax.
Intangible assets Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid for a business over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
When an entity is disposed of, any goodwill associated with it is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal except that goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 march 2004 which was previously deducted from equity is not recycled through the income statement.
intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill only if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future economic benefits are expected to flow to the Group.
Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: i except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
PAGe 57 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
