Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised: i except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
income taxes relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is charged on property, plant and equipment on the depreciable amount, being cost less the estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, or the estimated useful economic lives of their individual parts.
Useful economic lives are principally as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years short leasehold improvements Residue of lease Plant and equipment 5 - 11 years motor vehicles 4 years the carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment individually or at the cash generating unit level when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Capitalised borrowing costs Borrowing costs incurred in financing the construction of qualifying assets such as property, plant and equipment are capitalised up to the date at which the relevant asset is substantially complete.
Borrowing costs are calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing during the period of capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Accounting for leases i Finance leases Assets which are financed by leasing agreements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, in Property, plant and equipment and the corresponding capital cost is shown as an obligation to the lessor in Borrowings.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement over the shorter of the estimated useful life and the term of the lease.
the interest element of the rental obligations is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remainder of the capital amount outstanding.
PAGe 58 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
