the Companys Articles of Association provide that one third the Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies of the Directors retire by rotation each year and with the and internal reports on accounting and internal financial proviso that each Director shall seek re-election at the Annual control matters together with reports from the external General meeting every three years.
All new Directors are auditors.
the Audit Committee has overall responsibility for subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity monitoring the integrity of financial statements and related following their appointment.
announcements and for all aspects of internal control and meets at least three times a year, two of which involve a Directors biographies and membership of the various review of the Groups interim and full year financial statements.
Committees are shown on page 21. the formal terms of the Audit Committee considers annually the extent and reference for the Board Committees together with the terms effectiveness of the work of the internal audit function.
the and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors Audit Committee is also responsible for recommendations for are available for inspection at the Companys Registered the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external office and at the Annual General meeting.
auditors and for reviewing their effectiveness.
the Committee puts the external audit function out to tender every four to BoARD Committees five years, the last such tender being in 2008. the external Audit Committee auditors performance is assessed each year.
the Committee the Audit Committee comprised of two independent nonalso approves the terms of engagement and remuneration executive Directors, John Worby and Patrick Farnsworth until of the external auditors, and monitors their independence.
12 november 2009 when steven esom joined the Board, there is a policy in place in relation to the types of non-audit increasing the number to three.
the Committee is chaired by services the external auditors should not carry out so as not John Worby, the Groups senior independent Director, who to compromise their independence and these would include is a chartered accountant, has considerable recent relevant internal accounting or other financial services, internal audit financial experience and has spent many years in the food services or their outsourcing, executive or management roles industry.
Patrick Farnsworth has many years experience in or functions, and remuneration consultancy.
there is also a the food sector where he was Joint managing Director of whistle blowing policy in place which includes arrangements William Jackson & son Limited until his retirement in 2005. by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about steven esom has held a number of senior positions within possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and the food industry including managing Director at Waitrose other matters.
and executive Director of Food at marks & spencer.
it is a the terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available requirement of the Combined Code that the Audit Committee from the Company secretary.
should comprise of at least three independent non-executive Directors.
the Board is confident that the Group, since the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 12 november 2009, complies with this requirement.
Annual General meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
the Chairman, the Finance Director, who is ultimately responsible for assessing the Groups internal financial Internal Control controls, and the Group Financial Controller, together with the Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups the external auditors and, when requested, internal audit system of internal control, which safeguards the shareholders attend the meetings as appropriate.
the external auditors investment and the Groups assets, and for reviewing its have the opportunity to access the Committee, without effectiveness.
such a system can only provide reasonable the executive Directors being present, at any time, and the and not absolute assurance against material misstatement Committee formally meets with the external auditors at least or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the once a year on this basis.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
PAGe 30 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
