ii Operating leases Leases, which are not finance leases, are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Government grants and contributions UK Regional Development Grants and grants receivable from the european Union and DeFRA in respect of property, plant and equipment are credited to deferred income and released to the income statement over the relevant depreciation period.
Inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving items.
in the case of finished goods, cost comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of manufacturing fixed and variable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash equivalents are defined as cash at bank and in hand including short term deposits with original maturity within 3 months.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial instruments i Debt instruments, including bank borrowings Debt instruments are initially recognised at the fair value of net proceeds received after the deduction of issue costs.
subsequently debt instruments are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
issue costs are charged to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount under the effective interest method.
ii Derivative financial instruments the Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its cash flow risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
the fair value of forward contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with a similar maturity profile.
the fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Where derivatives meet the hedging criteria under iAs 39 for cash flow hedges the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Gains or losses recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the net profit or loss.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under iAs 39, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to net profit or loss for the period.
Financial assets Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
PAGe 59 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
