Meetings attendance Details of the number of meetings of, and members attendance at, the Board, Audit, Remuneration and nomination Committees during the year are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings 12 3 9 3 m. Bottomley from appointment max 10 10 - - - D. Black to resignation nil - - - - A. Couch 12 - - - s. esom from appointment max 5 1 4 1 5 1 4 1 m. Davey 12 - - 3 B. hoggarth 12 - - - J. Lindop to retirement max 2 2 - - - P. Farnsworth 12 3 9 3 J. Worby 11 3 9 3 All who were Directors at the time attended the Annual General meeting.
Shareholders Compliance with the Combined Code the views of shareholders expressed during meetings with the Directors consider that the Group has, during the year them are communicated by the Chairman to the Board as ended 31 march 2010, complied with the requirements of a whole, and through this process the Boards executive the Combined Code other than as set out below: and non-executive Directors are able to gain a sound i the company did not comply with Combined Code provision understanding of the views and concerns of the major A.
3.2 for eight months of the year as the number of shareholders.
the Chairman discusses governance and strategy independent non-executive Directors was less than half the Board.
since 12 november 2009 the Company believes with major shareholders from time to time.
other Directors it now complies.
are available to meet the Companys major shareholders if requested.
the senior independent Director is available to ii the Company did not comply, for eight months of the year, with Combined Code provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 listen to the views of shareholders, particularly if they have regarding the composition of the Audit and Remuneration concerns which contact with the Chairman has failed to Committees as there were less than three independent resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
since 12 november 2009 the of corporate governance and voting guidelines issued Company believes it now complies.
by the Companys institutional shareholders and their By order of the Board representative bodies are circulated to and considered by the Board.
the Board also welcomes the attendance and questions from shareholders at the Annual General meeting which is also attended by the Chairmen of the Audit, Malcolm Windeatt Remuneration and nominations Committees.
Company Secretary 24 may 2010 Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive the Company has provided the information required under DtR 7.2.
6 within the section headed change of control in the Directors report on page 27.
PAGe 34 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
