Group accounting policies Group accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial instruments, share based payments and pension asset valuations at fair value through profit or loss or through other comprehensive income in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The standards used are those published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the EU at the time of preparing these statements March 2011.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Accounting estimates and judgements The Groups critical accounting policies under IFRS have been set by management with the approval of the Audit Committee.
The application of these policies requires estimates and assumptions to be made concerning the future and judgements to be made on the applicability of policies to particular situations.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Under IFRS an estimate or judgement may be considered critical if it involves matters that are highly uncertain or where different estimation methods could reasonably have been used, or if changes in the estimate that would have a material impact on the Groups results are likely to occur from period to period.
The critical judgements required when preparing the Groups accounts are as follows: i Provisions as disclosed in note 21, the Group has made significant provisions for potential environmental liabilities and for the costs of the restructuring exercise following the acquisition of Uniqema.
The rationale behind these and other provisions is discussed in note 21.
The directors believe that these provisions are appropriate based on information currently available.
ii Goodwill and fair value of assets acquired note 13 the Groups goodwill carrying value increased significantly in 2006 following the acquisition of Uniqema.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment and the Groups goodwill value has been supported by detailed value-in-use calculations relating to the recoverable amounts of the underlying cash generating units.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
However, as recoverable amounts significantly exceed carrying values, including goodwill, there is no impairment within a reasonable range of assumptions.
iii Retirement benefit liabilities as disclosed in note 12, the Groups principal retirement benefit schemes are of the defined benefit type.
Year end recognition of the liabilities under these schemes and the valuation of assets held to fund these liabilities require a number of significant assumptions to be made, relating to levels of scheme membership, key financial market indicators such as inflation and expectations on future salary growth and asset returns.
These assumptions are made by the Group in conjunction with the schemes actuaries and the directors are of the view that any estimation should be prudent and in line with consensus opinion.
New IFRS standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional standards which are effective for this accounting period.
The following standards and interpretations have been adopted by the Group: i IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates, and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared to IFRS 3.
The standard has been applied in respect of transactions with non-controlling interests in the year.
ii IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
This amendment clarifies that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also clarifies that the general requirements of IAS 1 still apply, in particular paragraph 15 to achieve a fair presentation and paragraph 125 sources of estimation uncertainty.
These financial statements have been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
iii IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cashgenerating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
The Group has applied the amendment from 1 January 2010, however, it has not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The Group has also adopted the following standards and interpretations, which have had no material impact on the Groups financial statements: i IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners: ii IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers: iii IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement: iv IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation: v IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets: vi IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements: and vii IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share based payment transactions.
50 Financial statements Group accounting policies New IFRS standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional standards and interpretations which are effective for periods starting after the date of these financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have yet to be adopted by the Group but are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements: i IFRS 9, Financial instruments, issued in November 2009 and applicable from 1 January 2013 subject to endorsement by the EU : ii Revised IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures, issued in November 2009 and mandatory for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 subject to endorsement by the EU : iii Classification of rights issues amendment to IAS 32, issued in October 2009 and applicable to annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010: iv IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, effective 1 July 2010 subject to endorsement by the EU : and v Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement amendments to IFRIC 14, effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011.
Group accounts Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any noncontrolling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Transactions with non-controlling interests The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with the equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded as equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Intangible assets Goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of this impairment testing.
Research and development Research expenditure, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal development expenditure, whereby research findings are applied to a plan for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Measurement and other uncertainties generally mean that such criteria are not met.
Where, however, the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives from product launch.
Intangible assets relating to products in development are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Any impairment losses are written off immediately to income.
Computer software Acquired computer software licenses covering a period of greater than one year are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
51 Group accounting policies Group accounting policies Revenue recognition Sales of goods Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods, excludes inter-company sales and value-added taxes and represents net invoice value less estimated rebates, returns and settlement discounts.
The Group supplies products to customers from its various manufacturing sites and warehouses and in some limited instances from consignment inventory held on customer sites, under a variety of standard terms and conditions.
In each case revenue is recognised when the transfer of legal title, which is defined and generally accepted in the standard terms and conditions, arises between the Group and the customer.
This will nearly always be on dispatch or delivery, but never before dispatch.
Provisions for sales discounts and rebates to customers are based upon the terms of sales contracts and are recorded in the same period as the related sales as a deduction from revenue.
The Group estimates the provision for sales discounts and rebates based on the terms of each agreement at the time the revenue is recognised.
Interest and dividend income Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Segmental reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products and services that are subject to risks or returns that are different from those of other segments.
Operating segments presented in the financial statements are consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Makers, which have been identified as the Group Finance Committee and the Group Executive Committee.
Employee benefits Pension obligations The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect of defined benefit plans pension plans that define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the net of the plan obligations and assets.
No allowance is made in the past service liability in respect of either the future expenses of running the schemes or for non-service related death in service benefits which may arise in the future.
The operating costs of such plans are charged to operating profit and the finance costs are recognised as financial income or expense as appropriate.
Service costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately directly within equity.
Payments to defined contribution schemes pension plans under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Other post-retirement benefits Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either i terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or ii providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Share based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based incentive schemes.
These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS2 Share-based Payments, which requires an expense to be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the options.
The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate.
Any expense is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
Currency translations Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
52 Financial statements Group accounting policies Transactions and balances Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on trading transactions are included in the Group income statement except when deferred within equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges, which, along with other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes.
Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the pension fund deficit.
Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences.
No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings.
Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised, using the liability method, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are non-recurring material items which are outside the normal scope of the Groups ordinary activities, such as liabilities and costs arising from a fundamental restructuring of the Groups operations.
Such items are disclosed separately within the financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation, with the exception of assets acquired as part of a business combination which are initially recorded at fair value.
The Groups policy is to write off the difference between the cost of all property, plant and equipment, except freehold land, and their residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual productive assets, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, and adjustments are made where appropriate.
Under this policy it becomes impractical to calculate average asset lives exactly.
However, the total lives range from approximately 15 to 40 years for buildings and 3 to 15 years for plant and equipment.
All individual assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
By far the bulk of the Groups plant and equipment asset class relates to the value of plant and equipment at the Groups manufacturing facilities.
Consequently, the Group does not seek to analyse out of this class other items such as motor vehicles and office equipment.
Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses at each year end whether an asset may be impaired.
If any evidence exists of impairment, the estimated recoverable amount is compared to the carrying value of the asset and an impairment loss is recognised where appropriate.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In addition to this, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the balance sheet under property, plant and equipment at an amount reflecting the fair value of the asset and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their estimated useful life.
The capital element of future lease rentals is included in creditors.
Finance charges are allocated to the income statement each year in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
The cost of operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred.
53 Group accounting policies Group accounting policies Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument as either: i a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or ii a hedge of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedge : i Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
ii Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable amount on a first in first out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, including related production overheads, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its location and condition at the balance sheet date.
Net realisable amount is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any applicable variable selling costs.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory where appropriate.
Profits arising on inter Group sales are eliminated in so far as the product remains in Group inventory at the year end.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence that the amount will not be collectible.
Such amounts are written down to their estimated recoverable amounts, with the charge being made to operating expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
Environmental, restructuring and other provisions The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its operations and liabilities arising from the restructuring of its operations following the acquisition of Uniqema.
Provisions are made immediately where a constructive or legal obligation is identified, can be quantified and it is regarded as more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation.
The Group does consider the impact of discounting when establishing provisions and provisions are discounted when the impact is material and the timing of cash flows can be estimated with reasonable certainty.
54 Financial statements Group accounting policies Share capital a Investment in own shares i Employee Share Ownership Trusts Shares acquired by the trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction in equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the trustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in equity attributable to owners of the parent in the year.
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Companys income statement as incurred.
ii Treasury shares Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital as treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
b Preference share capital Preference share capital is classified as equity as the Group has full discretion over the transfer of benefits associated with the shares.
c Dividends Dividends on preference shares are recognised as a liability on an accruals basis.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Investments Investments in quoted securities are treated as available for sale and stated at fair value, being the appropriate quoted market value, with movements in the fair value being recognised within equity.
Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the investments are carried at cost.
Investments are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Held to maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: currency risk, interest-rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk.
The Groups overall risk management strategy is approved by the Board and implemented and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee.
Detailed financial risk management is then delegated to the Group Finance department which has a specific policy manual that sets out guidelines to manage financial risk.
Regular reports are received from all operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate action may be taken.
Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Entities in the Group use forward contracts and foreign currency bank balances to manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities.
The Groups risk management policy is to hedge transactional risk up to three months forward.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not specifically hedged but is reduced primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies where it is efficient to do so.
For 2010, had the Groups basket of reporting currencies been 10% weaker stronger than the actual rates experienced, post-tax profit for the year would have been 17m 2009: 8m lower higher than reported, primarily as a result of the translation of the profits of the Groups overseas entities, and equity would have been 19m 2009: 11m lower higher.
Interest rate risk The Group has both interest bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group has a policy of maintaining at least 50% of its gross borrowings at floating interest rates and at 31 December 2010 over 75% of Group borrowings were at floating rates.
At the time of the Uniqema acquisition, the Group was required to fix a proportion of its debt and had a 100m swap at a fixed interest rate for a period of 3 years.
This swap expired on 31 January 2010.
During 2010, in order to provide a hedge against its floating rate debt, the Group issued a ten year fixed rate $100m loan note.
Based on the above, had interest rates moved by 10 basis points in the territories where the Group has substantial borrowings, post tax profits would have moved by 0.2m 2009: 0.2m due to increased interest expense on the Groups floating rate borrowings.
55 Group accounting policies Group accounting policies Liquidity risk The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities designed to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available for operations and planned investments.
The Group also has a share buyback programme which is managed to ensure the efficiency of the Groups funding structure.
On a regular basis, management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flows against both internal targets and those targets imposed by external lenders.
As shown in note 20, the Group has substantial committed, unused facilities and the directors are confident this situation will remain the case for the foreseeable future.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit quality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overall cost of capital.
In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital to shareholders or dispose of assets to reduce net debt.
Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital ROIC is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group.
The acquisition of Uniqema reduced the ROIC, but also reduced Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC since the deal was predominantly financed through debt.
The Groups target is to maintain the ROIC at a higher level than the WACC, a target achieved in 2010.
In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure our ability to service our debt.
Both net debt EBITDA and EBITDA interest cover were ahead of target in 2010.
The Group was in compliance with its covenant requirements throughout the year.
Additional information on performance against key performance indicators can be found in the Financial review on page 10.
