General Information CSR plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WZ, United Kingdom.
CSR is a leading provider of multifunction connectivity, audio and location platforms.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have considered future cash forecasts and revenue projections, based on prudent market data, in their consideration of going Notes to the concern.
The issues surrounding going concern are discussed regularly by the Board and were evaluated as part of the Groups budget for the next financial year and the Groups longer term plans.
consolidated Note 37 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk financial management objectives: details of the financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group has adequate financial resources and a robust statements policy towards treasury risk and cash flow management.
The Group has $440.1 million of cash and cash equivalents, including treasury deposits and investments, as at 31 December 2010 and no debt liabilities.
The directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions and also in light of the recent litigation settlement note 31.
After considering the above factors, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position: The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current period.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRS 2 amended Group cash-settled share based payment transactions Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases, had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirements IAS 32 amended Classification of Rights Issues IAS 24 amended Related Party Disclosures Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 The adoption of IFRS 9 will impact both the measurements and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The financial statements cover the 52 week period from 2 January 2010 to 31 December 2010: the comparatives are presented for the 52 week period from 3 January 2009 to 1 January 2010 and income statement comparatives for the 53 week period from 29 December 2007 to 2 January 2009.
The financial statements are reported on a 52 or 53 week basis to be consistent with the Groups internal reporting.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 3.
Accounting Policies continued Notes to the consolidated Basis of Consolidation financial The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of CSR plc the Company and entities controlled by the statements Company its subsidiaries, together the Group drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements.
Control is continued achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for the control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred for acquisitions that have occurred since the adoption of IFRS 3 2008.
Previous acquisitions have not been restated.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified in equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets and liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
The transition provisions given in IFRS 3 2008 are such that the rules governing the treatment of contingent consideration for pre-adoption business combinations do not change.
Where there are acquiree share-based payment awards that will be exchanged for awards held by the Group, the fair value of the outstanding awards is allocated between consideration and post-combination service in accordance with IFRS 3 2008.
The Group recognises a contingent liability as of the acquisition date if there is a present obligation that arises from past events and its fair value can be measured reliably in accordance with IFRS 3 2008.
Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest if any, the excess is recognised in profit or loss as a bargain purchase made.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested annually or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
To determine the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, the Group uses discounted projected cash flows based on approved budgets and projections covering a period up to five years and estimates growth rates, terminal growth rates and discount rates specific to the economic environment within which the cash-generating unit is operating.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Accounting Policies continued Goodwill continued On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and delivery has occurred or the service has been provided, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.
These criteria are generally met at the time the product is shipped and delivered to the customer and, depending on the delivery conditions, title and risk have passed to the customer and acceptance of the product, when contractually required, has been obtained, or, in cases where such acceptance is not contractually required, when management has established that all aforementioned conditions for revenue recognition have been met and no further post-shipment obligations exist other than obligations under warranty.
Examples of the above-mentioned delivery conditions are Free on Board point of delivery and Costs, Insurance Paid point of delivery, where the point of delivery may be the shipping warehouse or any other point of destination as agreed in the contract with the customer and where title and risk in the goods pass to the customer.
Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes, customer discounts, rebates and similar charges.
For products for which a right of return exists during a defined period, revenue recognition is determined based on the historical pattern of actual returns, or in cases where such information is lacking, revenue recognition is postponed until the return period has lapsed.
Return policies are typically based on customary return arrangements in local markets.
Revenue is shown net of estimated provision for credit notes and returns.
A provision for product warranty is made at the time of revenue recognition and reflects the estimated costs of replacement and free of charge services that will be incurred by the Company with respect to the sold products.
Royalty income, which is generally earned based upon a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per royalty earning product, is recognised upon shipment by the licencee as long as recovery is reasonably assured.
Non-Recurring Engineering NRE revenue is recognised in line with the stage of completion.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Foreign Currencies The functional currency of CSR plc is the US dollar and this is also the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions in currencies other than US dollars are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks see policy on Hedge Accounting.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts see Financial Instruments policy for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Government Grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
Government grants towards staff and marketing costs are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Accounting Policies continued Notes to the consolidated Operating Loss financial Operating loss is stated before investment income, other gains and losses, finance costs and tax.
statements continued The income statement has been presented with certain items split out as separate line items.
Management believes that this presentation aids the understanding of the Groups financial performance and this presentation is used for internal performance evaluation.
Items that have been split out on the face of the income statement are the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment charges under IFRS 2, charges associated with integration and restructuring, acquisition fees, in 2010, the litigation settlement, in 2008 the deferred tax adjustment to goodwill, and also in 2008 the asset impairment.
Retirement Benefit Costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax expense and the deferred tax expense for the period.
The tax payable is based on taxable loss for the period.
Taxable loss differs from net loss before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable loss, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences, unused carried forward tax losses and unused carried forward tax credits can be utilised.
However, such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit: or investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise and the liability can be reliably measured.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets, less estimated residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following basis: Computer equipment 2 to 3 years Test equipment 2 to 5 years Office equipment 3 years Furniture and fittings 5 years Leasehold improvements Minimum lease period 80 81 3.
Accounting Policies continued Property, Plant and Equipment continued Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held.
Residual values are reviewed annually.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
Costs included are those that directly relate to the construction of the asset.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible fixed assets are stated at cost or fair value for items acquired in business combinations, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
No amortisation is provided on assets in the course of construction.
On other intangible fixed assets, amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or fair value, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Software licences Licence term or 3 to 5 years where a perpetual licence Customer contracts and relationships 3 to 4 years Purchased R&D 4 to 10 years Internally developed technology 3 years Purchased developed technology 3 to 4 years Trade names 2 years Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost net of any provision for impairment.
Costs included are those that directly relate to the construction or production of the asset.
Amortisation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Research and Development Expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as a new device or software : the project from which the asset arises meets the Groups criteria for assessing technical feasibility: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
A proportion of amortisation of acquired intangible assets has been allocated to cost of sales in fiscal 2010 due to acquired intangibles being developed and ready for sale.
This was not case in previous periods.
Accounting Policies continued Notes to the consolidated Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets Excluding Goodwill financial At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there statements is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the continued asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
After the recognition of an impairment loss, any depreciation or amortisation charge for the asset is adjusted for future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less estimated residual value, on a systematic basis, over its remaining useful life.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but the reversal is limited so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in-first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and Receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment or appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Treasury deposits and investments Treasury deposits and investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Treasury deposits and investments consist of money market deposits in USD, GBP and obligations of the United States government treasury with original maturities of over ninety days.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues over the period of the investment at rates fixed at the time of inception.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily available convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial Assets at FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss Financial Assets are classified as FVTPL where the asset has been designated as FVTPL.
A financial asset may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other gains and losses line in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 37.
Accounting Policies continued Financial Instruments continued Available for sale financial assets The Group has investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but are classified as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified into profit or loss.
Derecognition of Financial Assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
Impairment of Financial Assets Financial assets, other than those held at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impaired.
Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial Liabilities and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Trade Payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction cost.
Subsequently these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest recognised on an effective yield basis.
Equity Instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial Liabilities at FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss Financial liabilities are classified as FVTPL where the financial liability has been designated as FVTPL.
A financial liability may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of Financial Liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 37 to the financial statements.
Accounting Policies continued Notes to the Financial Instruments continued consolidated financial The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provides written statements principles on the use of financial derivatives.
The Groups policy is to hedge between 75% and 90% of forecast GBP expenditure for continued the following 11 to 15 months.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Hedge Accounting Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Note 22 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Movements in the hedging reserve in equity are also detailed in the statement of changes in equity.
Cash Flow Hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled into profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
When the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Provisions Provisions for warranty and returns costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
Provision is made for onerous contracts at the fair value of the minimum unavoidable payments, net of any amounts recoverable.
Where amounts are known and timings certain, onerous amounts are accrued instead.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Share-Based Payment The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, including share options with non-market based vesting conditions.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For grants where options vest in instalments over the vesting period, each instalment is treated as a separate grant, which results in fair value of each instalment being spread across the vesting period of that instalment.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for most of share options in issue.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For certain share options which include Total Shareholder Return TSR related condition the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
Accounting Policies continued Financial Instruments continued Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme.
This results in accelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
For a business combination where there are acquiree share-based payment awards that will be exchanged for awards held by the Group, the fair value of the outstanding awards is allocated between consideration and post-combination service in accordance with IFRS 3 2008 using the valuation techniques described in IFRS 2.
The allocation of the fair value of the options outstanding to consideration results in a credit to equity in the share-based payment reserve.
For cash-settled, share-based payments, the Group recognises a liability for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At the balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability measured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the period.
Employee Benefit Trust The Group has established an employee benefit trust which is a separately administered trust and is funded by loans from Group companies.
The assets of the trust comprise shares in CSR plc and cash balances.
The Group recognises assets and liabilities of the trust in the consolidated accounts and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Contingent liabilities A contingent liability may arise where there is possible obligation that arises from past events, whose occurrence or non-occurrence will only be confirmed by uncertain future events or where a present obligation arises from past events but where an outflow of resources from the Group is not probable and or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
The Group recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation and an outflow of resources from the Group is probable and can be reliably measured.
Treasury shares The Group holds shares in its own equity that it has reacquired as part of a share buy-back programme.
The shares are shown as a deduction in equity and are measured at the fair value of the shares purchased and transaction costs.
Dividend distribution A dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are paid.
In the case of a final dividend distribution, this will also be the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation and Uncertainty These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty.
Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions.
The directors constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
The directors believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and or the potential material impact they may have on the Groups financial position and performance.
Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provisions for excess or obsolete inventory are recorded based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
The level of inventory provisioning required is sensitive to changes in the forecast sales of particular products which is dependent on changes in conditions in the Groups markets.
If changes in actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected, additional inventory provisions may be required: similarly if changes in actual market conditions are more favourable than predicted, the Group may be able to release a proportion of the inventory provision.
Business Combinations and Goodwill Impairments The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the contingent liabilities assumed.
The Group uses judgement, estimates and involves external specialists in determining the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, as well as calculating the fair value of the purchase consideration on acquisition.
Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised and could result in differing amortisation charges based on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite lived intangible assets.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 4.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation and Uncertainty continued Notes to the Business Combinations and Goodwill Impairments continued consolidated financial The Group assesses the carrying value of identifiable intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill annually, or more frequently if statements events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable.
Factors considered important, which continued could trigger an impairment review, include the following: significant under performance relative to historical or projected future results: significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business: and significantly negative industry or economic trends.
This assessment is based upon projections of anticipated discounted future cash flows.
The most significant variables in determining cash flows are future growth in sales, discount rates, terminal values, the number of years on which to base the cash flow projections, as well as the assumptions and estimates used to determine the cash inflows and outflows.
The Group determines discount rates to be used based on the risk inherent in the related activitys current business model and industry comparisons, where these risks cannot be reflected in cashflows.
Terminal values are based on the expected life of products and forecasted life cycle and forecasted cash flows over that period.
While the Group believes that its assumptions are appropriate, such amounts estimated could differ materially from what will actually occur in the future.
In assessing goodwill, these discounted cash flows are prepared at a cash-generating unit level.
Note 16 to the financial statements provides further disclosures on the assumptions underlying the impairment review and the allocation of goodwill by reportable segments.
Provisions for Returns and Warranty Claims The Group provides for the estimated cost of returns and product warranties at the time revenue is recognised.
The Groups products are covered by product warranty plans of varying periods, depending on local practices and regulations.
While the Group engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, our warranty obligations are affected by actual product failure rates field failure rates and by material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure.
The Groups warranty provision is established based upon its best estimates of the amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of the balance sheet date.
As the Group continuously introduces new products which incorporate complex technology, and as local laws, regulations and practices may change, it will be increasingly difficult to anticipate our failure rates, the length of warranty periods and repair costs.
While the Group believes that its warranty provisions are adequate and that the judgements applied are appropriate, the ultimate cost of product warranty could differ materially from our estimates.
When the actual warranty cost of our products is lower than we originally anticipated, the Group releases an appropriate proportion of the provision, and if the warranty cost is higher than anticipated, the Group increases the provision.
Accounting for Share-based Payments The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based payments in relation to the accounting for share-based payments in respect of options and share awards granted after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
Under IFRS 2, the share-based compensation is measured at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and is recognised as an expense over the employees requisite service period.
The fair value of some of the options granted is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and, behavioural considerations.
The volatility used in the model is based on movements in the Groups share price for a period matching that of the vesting period of the options.
The riskfree interest rate used is the implied yield currently available on zero-coupon government issues in the UK, with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the option being valued based on the options remaining contractual life and taking into account the effects of expected early exercise.
Where there are indicators that there have been changes to non-market vesting conditions, the amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares that are expected to become exercisable.
The estimates of the number of share options and awards that are expected to become exercisable are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements provides details on the valuation assumptions made for each grant of share options and awards during the period.
Share Options and Taxation In the UK and US the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employees share options under each jurisdictions tax rules.
This gives rise to a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases and hence a deferred tax asset is recorded.
This asset is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the share price at the balance sheet date with the share-based payment expense recorded in the income statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of share-based payment expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation and Uncertainty continued Accounting for Share-based Payments continued No share-based payment expense is recorded in respect of options granted before 7 November 2002.
Nevertheless, tax deductions have arisen and will continue to arise on these options.
The tax effects in relation to these options are recorded directly in equity against retained earnings.
Revenue recognition Sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial involvement usually associated with ownership and effective control have ceased, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
This requires the Group to assess at the point of delivery whether these criteria have been met.
When the Group determines that such criteria have been met, revenue is recognised.
The Group records estimated reductions to revenue for pricing agreements, price protection, other volume based rebates and expected returns.
Estimated sales adjustments for volume based discount programs are based largely on shipment information.
Income Taxes The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the United Kingdom.
These laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities.
When establishing income tax provisions, we therefore make a number of judgments and interpretations about the application and interaction of these laws.
Changes in these tax laws or our interpretations of these laws and the resolution of future tax audits could significantly impact our effective tax rate and the results of operations in a given period.
The Group estimates its income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This process involves estimating its current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the consolidated balance sheet to the extent that we believe they are recoverable.
In recognising deferred tax assets, the Group considers profit forecasts including the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on sales and external market conditions.
Where it is probable that a position may be successfully challenged by revenue authorities, a tax provision is created for the tax on the probable adjustment.
Managements judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where management believes there are sufficient taxable temporary differences or it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to realise deferred tax assets.
Although the deferred tax assets which have been recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than expected.
This could materially affect the Groups reported net income and financial position.
Hedge Accounting for Financial Instruments The financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are assessed both at inception and quarterly thereafter to ensure they are effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposures.
Hedge accounting is used for foreign currency risk exposures and for firm and forecast commitments to hedge foreign currency risk exposures.
Managements judgement is required to determine whether a future transaction is probable.
External market data is applied in measuring the hedge effectiveness of financial instruments.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Refer to note 37 for details of the hedging relationships as well as the impact of the hedge on the pre-tax profit or loss for the period.
Litigation and claims The Group may be subject to claims, legal actions and complaints, including patent infringements, arising in the normal course of business.
The likelihood and ultimate outcome of such occurrences is not presently determinable therefore the Group uses estimation and judgement on whether any of these claims or litigation should result in a contingent liability being recognised.
Issues can, and do, take many years to resolve.
Significant items of litigation and claims on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement in respect of whether or not to recognise a contingent liability are discussed in note 31.
The inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
Segmental Reporting Notes to the CSR is a leading provider of multifunction connectivity, audio and location platforms.
consolidated financial statements continued Products from which Reportable Segments Derive their Revenues The Group has three operating segments which are the three reportable segments disclosed in the accounts: no aggregation criteria are required to be, or have been, applied.
Following the management approach to segmental reporting mandated under IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group identified that the three business units which operate in the Group constitute the operating segments which are reported to the Chief Executive, who is our chief operating decision maker, for internal monitoring and allocation of resources.
The reportable segments are therefore aligned with the three business units which operate in the Group and through which the operations of the Group are managed.
The Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as follows: Handset Business Unit HBU Mobile Handsets Audio and Consumer Business Unit ACBU Headsets, PC and Consumer Applications Automotive and PND APBU Automotive and Personal Navigation Device PND applications Segment Revenues and Results The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment: 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 HBU ACBU APBU Unallocated Consolidated $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Revenue Total segment revenue 339,149 238,388 223,071 800,608 Result Underlying operating loss profit 25,238 59,395 44,819 78,976 Share-based payment charges 9,822 9,822 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 14,137 14,137 Integration and restructuring 1,085 1,085 Acquisition-related fees 397 397 Litigation settlement 59,788 59,788 Operating loss 6,253 Investment income note 5 812 Other gains and losses 640 Finance costs note 12 904 Loss before tax 5,705 The Group discloses underlying operating profit as the measure of segment result as this is the measure used in the decision-making and resource allocation process of the Chief Operating Decision Maker, which is the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
Investment income and finance costs are not allocated to reportable segments for the purposes of reporting to the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
There is no intra-segment revenue.
A substantial proportion of R&D costs are allocated to the handset business unit.
Other operating costs are allocated on activity.
This method of cost allocation is used to report costs to the Groups Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
The accounting policies for the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies.
Underlying operating profit represents operating profit earned by each segment without allocation, in each period, of acquisitionrelated fees, share-based payment charges, litigation settlement, integration and restructuring charges and charges related to the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Segmental Reporting continued Segment Revenues and Results continued The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment in the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010: 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010 HBU ACBU APBU Unallocated Consolidated $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Revenue Total segment revenue 310,792 163,271 127,336 601,399 Result Underlying operating profit 4,641 6,246 16,046 26,933 Share-based payment charges 10,581 10,581 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 9,467 9,467 Integration and restructuring 12,227 12,227 Acquisition-related fees 10,572 10,572 Operating loss 15,914 Investment income note 5 1,915 Finance costs note 12 243 Loss before tax 14,242 The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment in the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009: 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 HBU ACBU APBU Unallocated Consolidated $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Revenue Total segment revenue 344,198 299,572 51,095 694,865 Result Underlying operating loss profit 8,536 63,377 17,989 72,830 Share-based payment charges 7,586 7,586 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5,418 5,418 Integration and restructuring 14,445 14,445 Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill 978 978 Asset impairment 52,918 52,918 Operating loss 8,515 Investment income note 5 6,139 Finance costs note 12 4,075 Loss before tax 6,451 No information is provided for segment assets and liabilities as these measures are not provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Revenues from Major Products The Groups revenues from its major products were as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 2 January 2009 $000 $000 $000 Sale of integrated circuits 782,332 585,241 683,520 Sale of software 10,444 12,189 10,178 Royalties 7,832 3,969 1,167 Consolidated revenue excluding investment income 800,608 601,399 694,865 Geographical Information The Group operates in four principal geographical areasthe UK country of domicile, Rest of Europe, the Americas and Asia.
The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and other financial assets by geographical location is detailed below: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 2 January 2009 $000 $000 $000 UK 6,655 251 967 Rest of Europe 110,171 69,187 62,791 USA including the Americas 92,316 62,546 45,148 Asia 591,466 469,415 585,959 800,608 601,399 694,865 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 6.
Segmental Reporting continued Notes to the Geographical Information continued consolidated financial Revenues are attributed to geographical areas on the basis of the customers manufacturing location.
statements Non-current assets continued 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 UK 276,829 65,418 75,167 Rest of Europe 614 47,857 73,122 USA including the Americas 4,460 182,997 14,467 Asia 8,172 10,704 12,536 290,075 306,976 175,292 Non-current assets, being goodwill, property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets excluding deferred tax assets and investments are attributed to the location where they are situated.
Information About Major Customers In 2010, included in revenues arising from HBU are revenues of approximately $115.2 million 14% of revenues relating to the Groups largest customer.
In 2009, included in revenues arising from HBU are revenues of approximately $67.8 million 11% of revenues relating to the Groups largest customer.
In 2008, revenues in HBU, APBU and ACBU relating to the Groups largest customer were $135.0 million, 19% of revenues.
In 2010 only the largest customer of the Group exceeded 10% of revenue in the 52 week period.
In 2009 revenues of approximately $63.9 million 11% of revenues were included within both the HBU and ACBU segments which arose from sales to the Groups second largest customer.
In 2008, revenues of approximately $75.6 million 11% of revenues were included within both the HBU and ACBU segments which arose from sales to the Groups second largest customer.
Revenue from the top five customers represents 42% of revenues 2009: 43%: 2008: 50%.
Profit loss for the Period Profit loss for the period has been arrived at after charging crediting : 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Net foreign exchange losses gains 2,485 2,231 4,466 Government grants towards staff and marketing costs 142 Research and development costs 199,927 169,713 158,167 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 20,091 18,383 20,135 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 580 56 545 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 135 447 186 Litigation settlement note 31 59,788 Integration and restructuring see note 33 1,085 12,227 14,445 Impairment of assets see note 34 52,918 Acquisition fees 397 10,572 Amortisation of intangible assets 18,054 11,860 10,468 Staff costs see note 9 170,791 155,240 130,006 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 397,971 315,138 362,527 Write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense 2,474 1,216 5,085 Auditors remuneration for audit services see note 8 789 936 360 Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill 978 90 91 8.
Auditors remuneration 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 78 243 93 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 505 693 267 Services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 162 Interim Review 44 103 34 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 789 1,039 394 Tax services 394 511 130 Corporate finance services SEC regulatory reporting accounting 705 UK reporting accountant 1,140 Due diligence 316 Other 28 Total non audit fees 394 2,700 130 9.
Staff Costs The average monthly number of employees including executive directors was: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 Number Number Number Research and development 1,052 811 697 Sales and marketing 260 238 240 General and administrative 151 118 112 1,463 1,167 1,049 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: $000 $000 $000 Salaries 142,221 128,160 104,720 Social security costs 11,704 9,945 10,479 Other pension costs 7,231 6,551 7,221 Share option charges 9,635 10,584 7,586 170,791 155,240 130,006 Share option charges for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 include $0.2 million included within Restructuring charges see note 33.
Investment revenue 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Short term bank deposits 316 218 2,063 Treasury deposits and investments 496 1,697 4,076 812 1,915 6,139 11.
Other gains and losses 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Change in the fair value of investments designated as FVTPL on initial recognition 640 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 12.
Finance Costs Notes to the consolidated 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 53 weeks ended financial 31 December 1 January 2 2 January 2010 010 2009 statements $000 $000 $000 continued Interestexpense and similar charges 493 795 286 Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration 15 1,141 Unwinding of discount on onerous lease provision 210 459 718 1,254 1,427 13.
Dividends 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Proposed final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 of 4p per share 11,093 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in the financial statements.
Taxation 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Current income tax payable recoverable 2,383 3,772 6,876 Adjustment in respect of current income tax of prior years 1,780 738 1,835 Total current income tax charge credit 603 3,034 5,041 Deferred tax credit 18,542 4,406 3,086 Deferred tax benefit on recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses 12,172 Deferred expense from fide-recognition of tax losses 5,048 1,171 Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of prior years 2,732 3,336 1,467 Total deferred tax credit charge note 23 22,934 101 4,553 Total tax credit charge 22,331 2,933 488 Corporation tax is calculated at 28% 2009: 28.0%: 2008: 28.5% : of the estimated assessable loss for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The credit charge for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the income statement as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 2 January 2009 $000 % $000 % $000 % Loss before tax 5,705 100.0 14,242 100.0 6,451 100.0 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.0% 2009: 28.0%, 2008: 28% 1,597 28.0 3,988 28.0 1,839 28.5 Tax benefit of research and development expenditure 7,337 128.6 7,727 54.3 6,020 93.3 Non taxable income on intercompany financing 3,154 48.9 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other tax jurisdictions 10,908 191.2 2,320 16.3 707 11.0 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 952 16.7 4,074 28.6 3,302 51.2 Impairment of investments 10,804 167.5 Effect of tax holidays in foreign jurisdictions 450 7.9 Non-deductible expenses 3,602 63.1 3,647 25.6 3,292 51.0 Recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses 12,172 213.2 fide-recognition of tax losses 5,048 88.4 1,171 8.2 Deferred tax rate change 531 9.3 2,210 15.6 Tax credit expense and effective tax rate for the period 22,331 391.4 2,933 20.6 488 7.6 In his budget of 22 June 2010, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced Budget tax changes, which, if enacted in the proposed manner, will have a significant effect on the groups future tax position.
One change proposed was a decrease in the rate of corporation tax to 24%, in 1% increments each year.
On July 21, the first planned reduction, to 27%, was substantially enacted in the Finance Act 2010.
Taxation continued The effect of this decrease in the tax rate to 24% on the groups deferred tax assets has been assessed and the impact is $844,000.
The budget also proposed a decrease in the capital allowance rates available on plant and machinery and integral fixtures from 20% to 18% and 10% to 8% respectively from 1 April 2012.
The changes, now enacted by the Finance Act 2010 will impact the amount of the future cash tax payments to be made by the group.
$7.4 million 2009 $1.6 million of current tax benefit has been agreed with the tax authorities for the share option gains of a former employee and recognised in equity.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in other comprehensive income: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Deferred tax Arising on income and expenses recognised in other comprehensive income: Net tax on cash flow hedges 870 9,589 8,930 Reclassifications from equity to profit or loss: Relating to cash flow hedges 199 1,530 2,052 Total income tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income 671 8,059 6,878 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in equity: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Current tax Current tax benefit taken to equity on share option gains.
1,048 1,359 Deferred tax Deferred tax benefit on share option gains 182 3,074 7,765 Total income tax recognised directly in equity 182 4,122 6,406 15.
Earnings Per Share The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following data: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Earnings Earnings loss for the financial period 16,626 11,309 6,939 Number of Number of Number of Number of shares shares shares shares Weighted average number of shares: For basic earnings per share 178,074,862 153,927,671 128,617,601 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options 2,959,012 For diluted earnings per share 181,033,874 153,927,671 128,617,601 In the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010, the dilutive effect of potential ordinary shares was nil as a loss was made in the period 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009: nil however there were 3,520,499 potentially dilutive options at 1 January 2010 2 January 2009: 1,993,152.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 16.
Goodwill Notes to the consolidated $000 financial Cost statements At 2 January 2009 143,229 continued Recognised on acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. 139,577 Adjustment to estimated contingent consideration 17,500 Adjustment of deferred tax note 23 6,948 At 1 January 2010 258,358 Recognised on acquisition of APT Licencing Limited note 39 3,200 At 31 December 2010 261,558 Impairmentlosses At 2 January 2009, 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 36,907 Carrying Amount At 31 December 2010 224,651 At 1 January 2010 221,451 At 2 January 2009 106,322 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 31 December 1 January Reportable segments and cash generating units 2010 2010 $000 $000 HBU 151,477 151,477 ACBU 21,770 18,570 APBU 51,404 51,404 224,651 221,451 Following the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. in 2009, there was an internal reorganisation which affected the cash generating units of the group.
Goodwill balances present at the time of the acquisition were re-allocated between the new cash generating units.
The goodwill arising from the SiRF acquisition was allocated between the cash generating units based on the expected future benefits of anticipated revenue synergies and cost savings.
Goodwill of $139.6 million was recognised on the acquisition of SiRF during 2009.
Of this, $84.1 million was allocated to the handset cash generating unit, $12.8 million was allocated to the audio and consumer cash generating unit and $42.7 million was allocated to the automotive and PND cash generating unit, based on the expected future benefits for these cash generating units.
Also during 2009, the estimated remaining consideration payable on the NordNav acquisition was adjusted from $17.5 million to $nil in line with current forecasts of the amount due under the sale and purchase agreement, this adjustment decreased the goodwill allocated to the handset cash generating unit.
An adjustment of $6.9 million was made to the goodwill allocated to the handset cash generating unit related to brought forward tax losses which were recognised to the extent temporary timing differences existed on the CPS and NordNav acquisitions.
In 2010 goodwill of $3.2 million was recognised on the acquisition of APT Licencing Limited.
This was allocated to the audio and consumer cash generating unit, as this unit was expected to realise the benefits of the acquisition.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Following the annual impairment test which takes place in the fourth quarter of each year, it was determined that no impairment of goodwill is required.
The recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit is determined from a value in use calculation.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, terminal growth rates, future growth in sales and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
Future growth in sales includes assumptions regarding the successful launch of new products and the successful ongoing transition to smaller geometry process technologies.
Whilst not quantifiable at this stage, the Group also expects to generate value from future new technologies.
For all cash generating units the Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management for the next year and extrapolates cash flow forecasts for the following four years, based on long range plans.
The key factor in the cash flow forecasts is the ability to forecast revenue for each cash generating unit.
Future sales are estimated based on recent reports on the markets we operate in produced by independent analysts.
Management uses this information to produce realistic plans when combined with internal and customer specific information, specifically adjusting for projected technology attach rates and market share models which are based on current positions and managements best assessment of the future.
Changes to selling prices and direct costs are based on well established trends in the semiconductor industry.
Operating costs are consistent with the long term operating model of the Group, specifically R&D expense of approximately 20% of revenue and SG&A expense of around 10% of revenue.
The estimation methodology is the same for all three cash generating units.
Goodwill continued These assumptions are reviewed and revised each year in light of current period results and changes in the global economy, during 2009 this resulted in more conservative estimates about the future and specifically a reduction in the terminal growth rate used for the impairment calculation, these effects remained during 2010.
A terminal value is included for the period beyond five years from the balance sheet date based on the estimated cash flow in the fifth year and a terminal growth rate of 1.5% 2009: 1.5%.
This terminal growth rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for any of the relevant markets.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to CSR, specifically using a weighted average cost of capital and estimating risk free rates based on UK GILTS, using published equity betas for CSR and making a reasonable estimate of the Equity Risk Premium, these estimates are made in a consistent manner from year to year.
Management have concluded that it is appropriate to use the same discount rate for all three cash generating units as the forecast cash flows have been adjusted for the risks specific to each cash generating unit, with the discount rate reflecting the risk specific to CSR as a whole.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 11% 2009: 9%.
The Group has conducted sensitivity analysis on a variety of scenarios on the impairment test of each CGUs carrying value.
The sensitivity analysis demonstrates that sufficient headroom exists to ensure the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount for all reasonable scenarios likely to occur.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 18.
Investments 31 December 1 January Available for sale investments carried at fair value 2010 2010 $000 $000 Shares in unquoted equity securities 1,000 20.
Other Financial Assets 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Trade and other receivables Amounts receivable for sale of goods and software 81,210 80,986 Amounts receivable for royalties 4,434 3,267 Total trade receivables 85,644 84,253 VAT 3,114 735 Other debtors 3,709 3,339 Prepayments and accrued income 13,420 11,020 105,887 99,347 96 97 21.
Other Financial Assets continued The average credit period taken on trade receivables is 40 days 2009: 40 days.
A specific allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts within trade receivables of $200,000 2009: $114,000.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
An allowance for credit notes and price adjustments has also been made within trade receivables of $250,000 2009: $557,000.
Before accepting any new customers, the Group uses a credit scoring system to assess the potential customers credit quality and define credit limits by customer.
Credit limits and credit quality are regularly reviewed.
It is the policy of the Group to only transact with creditworthy entities to mitigate the risk of default associated with trade receivables.
The Group provides for trade receivables based on amounts estimated as irrecoverable determined by reference to past default experience.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Treasury Deposits and Investment Treasury deposits and investments represent bank deposits and obligations of the United States treasury with an original maturity of over three months.
Some of these amounts are held as FVTPL assets see note 37. Credit Risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, treasury deposits and trade and other receivables.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is actively managed to limit the associated risk and counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Total trade receivables 85,644 84,253 Cash and cash equivalents 172,315 170,601 Treasury deposits and investments 267,833 241,763 Derivative financial instruments 1,870 2,397 527,662 499,014 The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Europe 14,788 16,621 USA 5,940 7,695 Asia 51,757 53,109 Other 13,159 6,828 85,644 84,253 The Groups exposure to credit risk is spread over a number of counterparties and customers with limited concentrations.
The Groups largest customer accounts for $2.5 million of trade receivables at 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 : $1.6 million.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 21.
Other Financial Assets continued Notes to the Credit Risk continued consolidated financial Impairment Losses statements continued The aging of total trade receivables at the reporting date was: Gross Impairment Gross Impairment 31 December 31 December 1 January 1 January 2010 2010 2010 2010 $000 $000 $000 $000 Not past due 77,995 72,405 174 Past due 130 days 7,323 250 10,305 Past due 3160 days 304 1,753 151 Past due 6190 days 472 200 Past due 91120 days 112 More than 121 days past due 349 346 86,094 450 84,924 671 The movement in the allowances in respect of trade receivables during the period was as follows: 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Balance at the beginning of the period 671 1,905 Utilised in the period 1,604 3,159 Additional provisions in the period 1,383 1,925 Balance at the end of the period 450 671 Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of $7,649,000 2009: $12,022,000 which are past due but for which the Group has not provided, as there has been no significant change in the credit quality of the receivables and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
$3.0 million of the past due but not provided trade receivables were received within two weeks of the balance sheet date 2009: $8.7 million.
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due, other than for credit notes or price adjustments.
Derivative Financial Instruments Currency Derivatives The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
The instruments purchased are denominated in GBP.
At the balance sheet date, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed is as below: 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Forward foreign exchange contracts 125,216 86,747 These arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures for the next 15 months 2009: 15 months and are renewed on a rolling basis to cover between 11 and 15 months forward.
At the balance sheet date, the fair value of the Groups currency derivatives is shown below: Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Forward foreign exchange contracts assets 1,870 2,120 liabilities 720 230 1,150 1,890 The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to a net asset of $1,150,000 2009: net asset of $1,890,000 has been deferred in equity.
Net amounts of $1,231,000 2009: $5,186,000: 2008: $3,876,000: and $85,000 2009: $277,000: 2008: $183,000: respectively have been transferred to operating expenses in the income statement and fixed assets in respect of contracts maturing in the period.
Derivative Financial Instruments continued Currency Derivatives continued Financial liabilities assets Carried at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss FVTPL 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Forward foreign exchange contracts 179 277 Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 37.
Deferred Tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the period and prior reporting period: Fair value Other Accelerated Shareadjustments short-term tax based on Tax Hedging temporary depreciation payment acquisition losses differences differences Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 At 2 January 2009 4,126 1,254 4,002 1,520 7,073 760 2,479 Credit charge to income 3,582 435 5,555 9,514 159 101 Credit charge to equity 3,074 8,059 4,985 On acquisition 14,057 14,057 Adjustments to prior period acquisition accounting note 16 6,948 6,948 At 1 January 2010 544 4,763 12,504 13,011 986 601 4,341 Charge credit to income 1,476 2,477 5,148 19,286 32 23,465 Credit charge to equity 456 638 671 853 Recognised tax losses on acquisition 681 681 Effect of change in tax rate equity 23 11 12 Effect of change in tax rate income 29 43 51 386 22 531 At 31 December 2010 903 1,764 8,088 33,230 304 611 28,116 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to the same taxation authority and net settlement and offset is permitted.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets 28,116 4,341 28,116 4,341 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of $297,939,000 2009: $261,542,000 available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of $99,667,000 2009: $39,334,000 of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining $198,272,000 2009: $222,208,000 due to the unpredictability of future profit streams within certain subsidiary entities.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of $153,569,000 2009: $107,647,000 that will expire in 5-19 years.
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, no deferred tax liability has been recognised on temporary differences of $14,100,000 2009: $3,239,000 relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 31 December 2010 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
As of 31 December 2010, the Group recognized deferred tax assets that exceed deferred tax liabilities by $14,762,000 in entities which have suffered a loss in the current period.
This is based on managements assessment that it is probable that the respective entities will have taxable profits against which the unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be utilized.
Generally, in determining the amounts of deferred tax assets to be recognized, management uses profitability information and, if relevant, forecasted operating results based upon approved business plans, including a review of the tax planning opportunities and other relevant considerations.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 24.
Obligations Under Finance Leases Notes to the consolidated Present value of minimum Minimum lease payments lease payments financial 31 December 1 January 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 2010 2010 statements $000 $000 $000 $000 continued Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 51 326 51 326 In the second to fifth years inclusive 195 195 246 326 246 326 Less: future finance charges Present value of lease 246 326 246 326 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 51 326 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 195 It is the Groups policy to lease certain of its equipment under finance leases and purchase certain software licences under agreements containing deferred payment terms.
The average lease term is 3.0 years.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date: all of the agreements containing deferred payment terms are interest free.
For the period ended 31 December 2010, the average effective borrowing rate was 0% 2009: 0%.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Lease obligations with a present value of $246,000 2009: $326,000 are denominated in Sterling.
All other obligations are denominated in US dollars.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors right over the leased assets.
Other Financial Liabilities Trade and Other Payables 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Trade creditors 54,740 52,472 Other taxation and social security 2,644 2,751 Other payables 301 29 Inventory accruals 9,667 17,259 Other accruals and deferred income 103,565 43,855 170,917 116,366 Analysed as: Amounts due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 125,223 116,366 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 45,694 170,917 116,366 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 49 days 2009: 61 days.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
For most suppliers, no interest is charged on trade payables.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time-frame.
Other accruals include the Litigation Settlement of $59.8 million note 31.
Contingent Consideration 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Amounts included within current liabilities Amounts included within non-current liabilities 1,567 1,567 The contingent consideration relates to milestone-based contingent consideration payments as part of the acquisition of APT Licensing Limited see note 39.
The amount recorded is the Groups best estimate of the likely outflows that will be required under the terms of the acquisition agreement.
The estimated contingent consideration related to the 2010 acquisition of APT Licensing Limited note 39, is in line with current forecasts of the amount due under the sale and purchase agreement.
Provisions Returns Onerous Onerous and contract lease warranty provision provision provision Total $000 $000 $000 $000 At 2 January 2009 3,413 2,790 6,203 Additional provision in the period 1,890 1,956 3,846 Unwinding of discount 459 459 On acquisition of subsidiary 3,220 322 3,542 Utilised in period 230 1,233 1,749 3,212 At 1 January 2010 2,990 4,529 3,319 10,838 Additional provision in the period 3,139 3,139 Unwinding of discount 210 210 Utilised in period 2,990 1,649 2,463 7,102 At 31 December 2010 3,090 3,995 7,085 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Amounts included within current liabilities 5,602 8,122 Amounts included within non-current liabilities 1,483 2,716 7,085 10,838 Onerous Lease Provision The Group has provided for the discounted anticipated costs of satisfying the terms of any onerous leases, less any anticipated income from subletting the buildings.
It is anticipated that the provision will be used over the remaining lease terms 6 years.
The 2009 additional provision relates to onerous lease charges for buildings being vacated as part of the integration and restructuring activities that took place after the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. in June 2009.
There has been no change in the discount rate applied in the period 2009: no change.
Returns and Warranty Provision The Group provides for the anticipated costs associated with contractual liabilities under standard warranty terms.
It is anticipated that the provision will be utilised within one year see note 4.
Onerous Contract Provision In 2009, the Group provided for the remaining costs due under a contract signed by SiRF Technology, Inc. in 2008.
It was concluded, prior to the completion of the acquisition, that the intellectual property licensed under the contract was not going to be utilised in any SiRF products.
No benefits were expected to be realised from this contract and the costs under this contract were all paid in 2010.
Called-up Share Capital Company Authorised Share Capital 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 000 000 350,000,000 1 January 2010: 350,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 0.001 each equity 350 350 Allotted, Called-up and Fully Paid: 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 184,953, 312 1 January 2010: 182,187,878 Ordinary Shares of 0.001 each equity 322 318 Changes to Share Capital: Equity Shares: 2,765,434 Ordinary Shares were issued from employee option exercises between 2 January 2010 and 31 December 2010.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 28.
Called-up Share Capital continued Number of shares subject to option Exercise price Vesting Grant date or share award per share period 2 11 June 2010 5,588 0.00100 3 years 11 June 2010 6,988 0.00100 3 years 3 September 2010 99,934 2.998 3 years 3 September 2010 259,006 0.00100 3 years 2 3 September 2010 70,230 0.00100 3 years 13,562,737 1 These options have vesting conditions based on the Companys performance against comparator companies based on TSR rankings over the vesting period.
2 These options have vesting conditions based on EPS growth over the vesting period.
3 These options have been issued as part of the Companys SAYE scheme.
Exercise period: Vested options and share awards are exercisable within ten years from the grant date, SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months of the vesting date.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 29.
Reserves Notes to the consolidated Employee ShareShare Capital Benefit based financial premium redemption Merger Trust Hedging payment Tax Treasury Retained account reserve reserve Reserve reserve reserve reserve shares earnings Total statements $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 continued 2 January 2009 91,448 950 61,574 40,224 25,260 27,864 35,770 314,386 466,508 Share issues net of share issue costs 271,584 271,584 Share-based payment 10,581 10,581 Acquisition-related share-based payment 10,001 10,001 Deferred tax benefit on share option gains 3,074 3,074 Current tax benefit taken directly to equity on share option gains 1,048 1,048 Current tax benefit relating to prior years taken directly to equity on share option gains 1,600 1,600 Gain on cash flow hedges 34,228 34,228 Deferred tax on hedging reserve 8,059 8,059 Transferred to income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 5,463 5,463 Loss for the period 11,309 11,309 1 January 2010 363,032 950 61,574 40,224 3,505 48,446 33,433 303,077 773,793 Share issues net of share issue costs 5,583 5,583 Shares issued from the Employee Benefit Trust Reserve 1,160 851 309 Share-based payment 9,592 9,592 Deferred tax benefit on share option gains 182 182 Current tax benefit relating to prior years taken directly to equity on share option gains 7,367 7,367 Loss on cash flow hedges 3,108 3,108 Purchase of treasury shares including transaction costs 37,487 37,487 Deferred tax on hedging reserve 671 671 Effective tax rate adjustment 12 12 Transferred to income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 726 726 Profit for the period 16,626 16,626 31 December 2010 368,615 950 61,574 39,064 1,123 58,038 41,641 37,487 318,852 774,242 A tax reserve has been included to show movements in equity caused by tax adjustments reflecting movements in tax not recorded in the income statement.
The share premium account, capital redemption reserve and hedging reserve are not distributable.
The merger reserve arose on the combination of CSR plc and Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited and is not distributable.
The Employee Benefit Trust Reserve represents the cost of shares in CSR plc purchased in the market and held by the CSR plc Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Groups share option schemes.
Between 18 March 2008 and 25 March 2008, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust the Trust purchased 3,222,813 ordinary shares at prices between 3.37 and 3.03.
On 3 May 2007, the Trust purchased 334,890 ordinary shares at an average price of 7.41 pence per share.
Between 6 June 2007 and 7 June 2007, the Trust purchased 336,425 ordinary shares at an average price of 7.38 per share.
Between 26 September 2007 and 28 September 2007, the Trust purchased 795,452 ordinary shares at an average price of 6.24 per share.
170,440 ordinary shares were issued from the Employee Benefit Trust in 2010 to satisfy employee option exercises.
The shares acquired by the Trust do not represent treasury shares for the purposes of the Companies Act and therefore remain as issued share capital.
For accounting purposes, the treatment of the shares acquired by the Trust is different.
In preparing the consolidated Group accounts, the shares held by the Trust are treated as a deduction in shareholders equity.
During 2010, the Group commenced a share buy-back programme of up to $50.0 million.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had purchased 7,145,000 shares which are held in Treasury at a cost of $37.5 million.
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement 52 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Net profit loss for the period 16,626 11,309 6,939 Adjustments for: Investment income 812 1,915 6,139 Finance costs 904 243 4,075 Other gains and losses 640 Income tax credit expense 22,331 2,933 488 Operating loss 6,253 15,914 8,515 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 20,091 18,383 20,135 Amortisation of intangible assets 18,054 11,860 10,468 Impairment of assets 52,918 Deferred tax transfer to goodwill 978 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 279 56 545 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 135 447 186 Share related charges 9,592 10,581 7,586 Increase in provisions 2,227 4,313 3,789 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 44,125 29,726 88,090 Decrease increase in inventories 12,961 8,679 11,055 Increase decrease in receivables 6,678 3,642 17,253 Increase decrease in payables 46,093 8,233 20,063 Cash generated by operations 70,579 50,280 96,335 Foreign taxes paid 1,127 782 1,290 Corporation taxes received 8,691 28,738 Grant income received 131 Interestpaid 662 1,252 326 R&D tax credit received 295 1,987 320 Net cash from operating activities 77,907 50,233 66,301 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
The acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. in the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010 see note 39 was a significant non cash transaction in the period as the consideration for the transaction was satisfied through the issuance of additional shares.
Contingent liabilities The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may be from time to time, involved in a number of legal proceedings, that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company and its subsidiaries are not involved currently in any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Other than as disclosed, due to inherent uncertainties, no accurate quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any of the legal proceedings outlined below can be made.
In December 2010, mediation commenced between the Group and Broadcom Corporation Broadcom with the intention to settle all outstanding litigation.
A draft settlement was agreed on 22 December 2010, with a formal agreement signed on 10 January 2011.
The comprehensive settlement is in respect of all outstanding litigation, including that ongoing between SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. and Broadcom at the time of the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. by the Group in June 2009.
The terms included a covenant that expires in January 2016 in which each party covenants not to sue the other or any third parties, including the other partys customers, for infringement based on the use of the others products.
In connection with the comprehensive settlement, the Group agreed to make an initial payment of $5m which has been made in January 2011 and future payments of $12.5m per year for five years.
The litigation settlement has been recognised in the 2010 financial statements as a one time charge for the net present value of the future cash flows.
The liability is shown within accruals as discussions were sufficiently progressed at the period end date that terms had been established.
Prior to formal agreement of the terms being reached at the beginning of 2011, it was not readily estimable and no cash outflow was considered probable.
No provision has been recorded for any of the cases below as cash outflow has not been deemed as probable.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 31.
Contingent liabilities continued Notes to the consolidated Wi-LAN Inc. v. Acer, Inc. et el financial With respect to the ongoing litigation with Wi-LAN Inc. on 2 June 2010, Wi-LAN Inc. amended its complaint in a previously filed statements patent infringement lawsuit Case No.
2:10-cv-00124 in the Eastern District of Texas against a number of defendants, adding continued among others SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. and CSR plc as defendants.
The amended complaint asserts that we and other of the defendants each infringe two patents of Wi-Lan.
We have answered the complaint denying the allegations therein.
A scheduling conference has not yet occurred, accordingly, discovery has not begun, and a trial date has not been set.
In the course of its business, the Group has indemnification obligations to various entities, and, upon proper tendering of control of the litigation by one customer to the Group, the Group has taken over the representation, including with respect to a declaratory judgment action against Wi-LAN in the Northern District of California.
That action was subsequently transferred to the Eastern District of Texas to be consolidated with Case No.
An appeal for transfer back to the Northern District of California is pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit challenging that ruling.
Trial date has not been set.
In another Wi-LAN case, initially asserted in 2008 relating primarily to WiFi but also implicating Bluetooth, CSR plc is not and has not been a party.
However, as parties to that litigation who are also suppliers of the Groups customers settle from that case, certain customers of the Group have indicated a desire to obtain indemnification from and have requested the Group to now assume the defense and control of such litigation as scheduled for trial in April 2011, which offer to control had not, in fact, previously been tendered to the Group.
The Group is evaluating the requests and have not yet made a determination in this regard.
Bandspeed, Inc. v. Sony Electronics, Inc. et al On 7 August 2009, Bandspeed, Inc. filed a patent infringement lawsuit Case No.
1:09-cv-593 LY in the Western District of Texas against a number of defendants, including Sony Electronics, Inc. and Apple, Inc. Bandspeed Inc thereafter filed amended complaints, adding additional defendants, including LEGO Systems, Inc. and Sony Computer Entertainment America all Sony defendants collectively referred to as Sony.
The Patents in suit asserted by Bandspeed against each of Sony Electronics, Apple, and LEGO were the same: U. S. Patent Nos.
The Group has indemnification obligations to Sony, Apple and LEGO, and certain of these defendants have requested such indemnification, and the Group sought to intervene in the case.
In 2010, the Court granted the Groups motion to intervene into this patent infringement lawsuit.
NordNav Technologies AB In the fourth quarter of 2010, the original sellers of NordNav filed for arbitration proceedings in Sweden against CSR of a potential claim in respect of a $17.5 million earnout.
The allegations were to be set out in a statement of claim on 7 February 2011.
This matter is currently scheduled for arbitration in October 2011, with a ruling anticipated in November of 2011.
Operating Lease Arrangements 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 23,591 13,984 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Within one year 24,483 10,884 In the second to fifth years inclusive 31,852 9,839 After five years 4,713 61,048 20,723 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, office equipment and software licences.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of 3.35 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 3.11 years.
Integration and restructuring In 2010, a decision was taken to close the NordNav Technologies AB office in Stockholm, Sweden.
This led to approximately 10 employees leaving the Group.
A charge of $1.1 million was recorded in relation to the closure with the main component being $0.6 million of severance costs.
At 31 December 2010, $1.1 million of accruals in respect of these payments was held.
The remaining payments are expected to be made during the course of 2011.
A restructuring program was implemented at the end of Q2 2009, following the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc.
This led to approximately 100 employees leaving the Group.
The headcount reductions were implemented following careful consideration of the long-term strategic objectives and shorter term targets for 2009 and 2010.
This planning commenced prior to the acquisition date to ensure that once the Group was able to operate as a single business, the Group could integrate and restructure as quickly as possible and ensure that the core projects of the enlarged Group were adequately resourced.
Integration and restructuring continued The main components of the $12.2 million charge were onerous lease charges of $2.2 million, severance costs of $4.3 million, consultancy and legal costs of $4.5 million and $1.2 million of other integration related costs.
Approximately 100 employees left the Group as part of the 2009 combined integration and restructuring programme spread through all functions mostly, in the UK and US.
At 31 December 2010, all payments had been made in respect of this restructuring programme.
In 2008, CSR plc announced a restructuring programme in the fourth quarter with the aim of reducing ongoing operating expenses by around $20 million in 2009.
This was successfully completed and delivered the predicted savings.
Approximately 100 employees left the Group as part of the 2008 restructuring programme spread through all functions mostly in the UK, US and Sweden.
A one-time restructuring charge of $14.4 million was recorded in 2008 including $5.6 million of severance, $3.3 million of currency hedging charges due to the reduction in Sterling requirements in 2009 and $3.9 million of onerous lease and building-related charges for buildings being vacated as part of the restructuring.
At 31 December 2010, there were no payments remaining to be made to employees under the restructuring programme: cash outflows relating to the onerous leases of buildings being vacated are expected to occur within the next five years.
Impairment of Assets During 2008, a non-cash impairment charge of $52.9 million was recorded.
This resulted from the decision to discontinue investment in UbiNetics protocol software development programme following the recommendations of the Operational Assessment in April 2008.
During the Assessment, the Group looked at its market in great detail and consulted widely to review the opportunities for winning in the global market for wireless solutions.
The Group undertook in-depth discussions with customers on all continents, and asked the leading customers where they anticipated the most growth.
The Group also carried out an analysis of its own capabilities and identified strengths and weaknesses to determine our future strategy.
The impairment was charged to Sales, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Share-Based Payments Equity-settled share option schemes CSR plc has grants and awards in the following Share Schemes which result in charges to the Consolidated Income Statement: Global Share Option Scheme The Company has a share option scheme for all employees of the Group, under which share options were issued prior to flotation, at a price based on the most recent private funding round.
All employees were granted options on joining CSR.
These options had a vesting period of five years, with 20% of options vesting one year after grant, then the remainder vesting in equal quarterly instalments over the remaining four years.
Other options in addition to those related to employees joining were also granted under this scheme.
In all cases if the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options lapse.
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
No grants have been made under this scheme since flotation.
Company Share Option Plan CSOP The Company introduced a new scheme at flotation called the CSR plc Share Option Plan.
The following grants have been made under the scheme: Flotation Grant On the Companys flotation in February 2004, the Company issued share options to all employees, at a price based on the share price on the day of flotation.
The vesting period was three years.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options lapse.
Performance Grants On the Companys flotation in February 2004, and in May 2005, May 2006, May 2007, June 2008 and certain other dates relating to employees joining the Company issued share options at a price based on the average share price over the preceding three days.
For options granted between 2004 and 2008, the vesting period of these grants is three years and vesting is dependent upon meeting certain EPS based performance conditions.
With the decision to extend the grant of share awards with accompanying performance conditions to other employees, the Committee had decided that for grants from 2009 onwards, the performance condition for vesting would be changed to Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The vesting period of these share options remains three years.
The vesting of the options is also subject to the Group satisfying a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return of the Companys shares when compared to a group of companies selected at the time an award is first granted.
In order for the shares to vest, the Group must have met or exceeded certain TSR thresholds when compared with the TSR performance of the group of other companies.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 35.
Share-Based Payments continued Notes to the Company Share Option Plan CSOP continued consolidated financial Starter Grants statements The Company grants options to new starters to assist in recruitment.
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average share continued price on the three days preceding the grant date.
The vesting period of the options is over a period of five years with 40% vesting after two years and 5% vesting each quarter thereafter.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options lapse.
Grants are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
The Company has also issued starter grants to senior employees that vest after three years.
No starter grants with these characteristics were issued in the current period 2009: no grants: 2008: no grants.
CSR Share Award Plan In May 2005, following approval of shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, the Company introduced the CSR plc Share Award Plan, which allows for options to be granted for exercise at a future date at a price equivalent to the nominal value of the Companys shares of 0.001.
The following awards have been made: Retention Awards The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value 0.001 as a method of staff retention.
The vesting period of these share awards is either two or three years.
If the share awards remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the awards lapse.
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Performance Awards The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value 0.001 as a method of staff incentivisation.
The vesting period of these share awards is three years.
For grants between 2005 and 2008, the vesting of the awards is also subject to the Group satisfying two performance conditions.
The first is the Total Shareholder Return of the Companys shares when compared to a group of companies selected at the time an award is first granted.
The second is improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group.
In the event the Group satisfies any one of the TSR thresholds, the Remuneration Committee then considers the extent of any improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group.
From 2009 onwards, the Company issued certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value.
The vesting period of these grants is three years and vesting is dependent upon meeting certain EPS based performance conditions.
Starter Awards The Company grants rights to new starters to purchase shares at nominal value 0.001 to assist recruitment.
The vesting period of these awards is two years.
SAYE Schemes The Company operates a SAYE scheme, whereby UK employees are allowed to subscribe to a monthly savings amount for a period of three years: at the end of the three year period, the employee is allowed to either receive their saved amount plus interest or purchase shares in the Company at a price based on the average share price on the three days prior to commencement of the SAYE scheme, discounted by 20%.
This scheme is open to all employees subject to Inland Revenue approved limits on total investment, and invitations are issued at regular intervals.
Employees have a period of six months following the conclusion of the scheme to exercise their option to purchase shares.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP The Company operates an ESPP scheme for its US employees whereby eligible employees are allowed to have salary withholdings of up to 15% of cash compensation to purchase ordinary shares in the Company at a price equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on the first trading day of the offering period or the fair market value on the purchase date.
SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. plans For purely historic purposes of settling pre-acquisition obligations of option and award exercise, the Company has assumed all the obligations of the former SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. under pre-existing plans utilised by SiRF which comprise the 1995 Stock Plan, the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, the TrueSpan 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and the Centrality 1999 Stock Plan.
The Company will not issue any options or awards under these plans going forward.
All contractual terms of the assumed options remain the same, except for the converted number of shares and exercise price which were based on an exchange ratio determined as part of the merger agreement.
Share-Based Payments continued Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 2 January 2009 Weighted Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average Number of average share exercise share exercise share exercise options price options price options price in in in Outstanding at beginning of period 16,256,257 4.57 9,956,891 3.12 8,726,947 3.62 Granted during the period 3,387,428 1.63 3,839,150 1.24 3,279,870 1.94 Replacement options granted to SiRF employees on acquisition 7,311,686 7.58 Forfeited during the period 3,145,074 5.35 3,212,669 5.81 1,232,681 5.17 Exercised during the period 2,935,874 1.20 1,638,801 0.85 817,245 0.95 Outstanding at the end of the period 13,562,737 4.09 16,256,257 4.57 9,956,891 3.12 Exercisable at the end of the period 4,306,187 9.35 6,208,976 8.33 5,671,192 3.63 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 4.08 2009: 3.43: 2008: 3.56.
The options outstanding at 1 January 2010 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7 years 2009: 7 years: 2008: 8 years.
In 2010, options were granted on 15 March, 1 May, 13 May, 11 June and 3 September.
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates is $9,012,000.
The weighted average fair value of these options is $4.72.
In 2009, options were granted on 12 March, 16 March, 26 June, 4 August and 1 September.
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates is $15,308,000.
The weighted average fair value of these options was $1.78.
In 2008, options were granted on 5 March, 28 March, 11 June, 4 August, 12 August, 25 September and 4 November.
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates is $9,504,000.
The weighted average fair value of these options was $3.01.
The fair values of the share option and share award grants were based on the following inputs: SAYE Schemes The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 4.30 2.03 3.24 Weighted average exercise price 3.91 1.65 2.53 Expected volatility 57% 61% 54% Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years Risk free rate 2.80% 2.53% 4.32% Expected dividends 0% 0% 0% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over a three year period, equivalent to the vesting period of the options.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Company Share Option Plan CSOP The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 2.984.65 2.084.35 2.863.33 Weighted average exercise price 2.994.84 2.084.28 2.783.29 Expected volatility 57% 61% 54%58% Expected life 34years 34years 34years Risk free rate 2.30%2.95% 2.53% 4.18%5.20% Expected dividends 0% 0% 0% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over a time period equivalent to the vesting period of the options.
The adjustments for the performance conditions are reflected in the proportion of options anticipated to vest.
Share-Based Payments continued Notes to the Company Share Option Plan CSOP continued consolidated financial For options issued in 2009 and 2010, the fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the 37 statements comparator companies included in the TSR conditions of the award.
The Monte Carlo simulation incorporates a range of other continued assumptions based on the TSR comparator companies: those assumptions given above relate to the Group.
Expected volatility for each Company was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the individual Companys share price over the 3 years from the date of grant.
Starter Grants The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 2.123.33 Weighted average exercise price 2.042.12 Expected volatility 56%60% Expected life 35 years Risk free rate 4.02%5.20% Expected dividends 0% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over a time period equivalent to the vesting period of the options The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Retention Awards and Starter Awards The fair value was based upon the share price on the date of grant.
Performance Awards 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 3.043.33 Weighted average exercise price 0.001 Expected volatility 59%57% Expected life 34years Risk free rate 5.00%5.25% Expected dividends.
0% For pre-2009 awards, the fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the 38 comparator companies included in the TSR conditions of the award.
For awards issued in 2009 and 2010, the fair value was based on the share price on the date of grant as the performance conditions were market based.
ESPP scheme The fair value of the ESPP awards was based upon the Monte Carlo simulation of the likely gain to be made by each employee over the course of the scheme.
Share Option Charges The Group recognised total expenses of $9,592,000 2009: $10,581,000: 2008: $7,586,000: related to equitysettled share-based payment transactions.
Cash-settled share-based payments The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share awards that require the Group to pay the value of the share awards to the employee on the date of the exercise after a specified vesting period.
The Group has recorded a liability of $47,000 in 2010 2009: $nil.
Fair value of the awards is determined using the market value of the awards at the balance sheet date.
The Group recorded a total expense of $47,000 in 2010 2009: $nil.
Retirement Benefits Scheme The Group operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for all qualifying employees.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in funds under the control of trustees.
The total cost recorded in the income statement of $7,231,000 2009: $6,551,000: 2008: $7,221,000 represents contributions payable to this scheme by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plan.
As at 31 December 2010, contributions of $nil 1 January 2010: $nil due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the scheme.
Financial Instruments Financial Risk Management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Market risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Groups Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Capital Risk Management The Groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
CSR intends to reinvest its cash balances in the business either through higher levels of investment in working capital and fixed assets or through further M&A activity to support the long-term ambitions of the Group.
In 2010, the Group has also sought new methods of employing its cash resources by way of a $50.0 million share buy back policy that was announced and also the announcement of a maiden dividend, subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM to be held in May 2011.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, treasury deposits and equity attributable to the equity holders of CSR plc, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 28 and 29.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
As a result of the funds raised through the initial public offering in March 2004, subsequent positive operating cash flows and the cash and cash equivalents acquired with SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. the Group has a total of $440.1 million of treasury deposits and cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 2010: $412.4 million Significant Accounting Policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
31 December 1 January 2010 2010 $000 $000 Financial assets Available for sale 1,000 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits 395,832 428,928 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,870 2,120 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 132,801 72,040 531,503 503,088 Financial liabilities Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 720 230 Amortised cost 151,895 96,809 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 180 152,795 97,039 Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risk will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 37.
Financial Instruments continued Notes to the consolidated Foreign Currency Risk Management financial Substantially all of the Groups sales and costs of sales are denominated in US dollars, the functional currency of all the entities statements within the Group.
A substantial proportion of the Groups fixed costs are denominated in Sterling and the majority of the remainder is continued non-USD denominated.
This exposure to different currencies may result in gains or losses with respect to movements in foreign exchange rates and the impact of such fluctuations could be material.
Accordingly, the Group enters into hedging transactions pursuant to which it purchases Sterling under forward purchase contracts in order to cover the majority of its Sterling exposure.
The carrying amounts of the Groups Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Liabilities Assets 31 December 1 January 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 2010 2010 000 000 000 000 GBP sterling 6,273 14,735 3,210 2,390 The following significant exchange rates applied during the period: Weighted average forward contract rate contracts maturing in the period Period end spot rate 31 December 1 January 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 2010 2010 GBP: USD 1.5563 1.9281 1.5597 1.6165 Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis A 10 percent strengthening of the US dollar against GBP sterling would have decreased equity and profit or increased loss after tax by the amounts shown below as at the reporting date shown.
In managements opinion, this is a reasonably possible change given current market conditions.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates and other foreign currencies, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2009.
31 December 2010 Equity Profit or loss $000 $000 GBP 7,787 484 1 January 2010 Equity Profit or loss $000 $000 GBP 5,174 1,180 A 10 percent weakening of the US dollar against GBP sterling would have had the equal but opposite effect, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
The movement in loss for the period is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to exchange movements in sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
The movement in equity is mainly as a result of the changes in fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow or fair value hedges are expected to occur: Cashflowhedges Carrying Expected 3 months More than amount cash flows or less 3-6 months 6-12 months one year 31 December 2010 Forward foreign exchange contracts $000 125,216 29,984 23,807 23,417 48,008 Forward foreign exchange contracts 000 81,000 19,000 15,500 31,000 15,500 Fair value $000 970 352 360 915 47 Average exchange rate 1.5432 1.5731 1.5338 1.5239 1.5521 1 January 2010 Forward foreign exchange contracts $000 86,747 20,699 15,082 30,829 20,137 Forward foreign exchange contracts 000 55,000 14,000 9,500 19,000 12,500 Fair value $000 2,167 1,933 279 87 42 Average exchange rate 1.5652 1.4520 1.5785 1.6222 1.6116 The Directors consider the periods in which the cash flows associated with the derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur approximate the periods when the cash flows associated with those cash flows are likely to impact profit or loss.
Financial Instruments continued Interest Rate Risk Management The Group has no significant direct exposure to fluctuations in interest rates other than those on interest-bearing cash balances.
The majority of cash balances are held at fixed rates of interest and the effective rate of interest on those cash balances in the period was 0.22% 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010: 0.54%: 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009: 4.67% Credit risk Credit Risk Management Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group only transacts with entities that are rated the equivalent of investment grade and above for Treasury management purposes.
This information is supplied by independent rating agencies where available and if not available, the Group uses other publicly financial available information and its own trading records to rate its major customers.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
For cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits, the Company only transacts with entities that are equivalent to investment grade and above.
Disclosures related to the credit risk associated with trade receivables are in note 21.
Liquidity risk Liquidity Risk Management The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has no significant borrowings from third parties and therefore liquidity risk is not considered a significant risk at this time.
The table below details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The tables have been prepared based on undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
Weighted average effective Less than More interest one 1-2 2-3 3-6 than 31 December 2010 rate % month months months months 6 months Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Obligations under finance leases 246 246 Contingent consideration undiscounted 3.4% 1,620 1,620 Other payables 791 900 789 2,480 Onerous lease provision undiscounted 162 62 1,932 1,832 791 738 62 4,587 6,178 Weighted average effective Less than More interest one 1-2 2-3 3-6 than 1 January 2010 rate % month months months months 6 months Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Obligations under finance leases 326 326 Other payables 261 1,712 482 2,455 Onerous lease provision undiscounted 15% 101 202 462 4,108 4,873 261 101 1,914 462 4,916 7,654 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined as follows: Trade receivables and trade and other payables: The carrying amount of these short-term financial instruments approximates their fair value.
Derivatives: The fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using an appropriate discount rate.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities in the financial statements approximates their fair values.
The following table provides an analysis of the financial assets, specifically money market funds and marketable debt instruments that are measured on a recurring basis, subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 37.
Financial Instruments continued Notes to the consolidated Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable financial for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and statements continued Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include significant inputs for the asset and liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 $000 Quoted prices in Active Markets for Significant Other Significant Identical Assets Observable Inputs Unobservable Inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at FVTPL 1 United States government fixed income debt securities 132,801 132,801 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,870 1,870 Available for sale financialassets Shares in unquoted equity securities 1,000 1,000 Financial liabilitiesat FVTPL Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 720 720 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 180 180 The fair value of the unquoted equity shares can be accurately determined as management monitors the ongoing investment by oversight involvement in the investee and due to the recent nature of the purchase.
1 January 2010 $000 $000 $000 $000 Quoted prices in Active Markets for Significant Other Significant Identical Assets Observable Inputs Unobservable Inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at FVTPL 1 United States government fixed income debt securities 71,763 71,763 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2,120 2,120 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 277 277 Financial liabilitiesat FVTPL Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 230 230 1.
Included within Treasury Deposits on the CSR Consolidated balance sheet Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: $000 Available for sale Unquoted equities Balance at 1 January 2010 Total gains and losses: In profit or loss In other comprehensive income Purchases 1,000 Balance at 31 December 2010 1,000 38.
Related Party Transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 31 December 1 January 2 January 2010 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Short-termemployee benefits 4,582 5,774 3,850 Post-employment benefits 228 273 241 Share-based payment 1,398 473 537 6,208 5,574 4,628 114 115 38.
Related Party Transactions continued Remuneration of key management personnel continued Prior to the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. Diosdado Banatao held an interest in SiRF common stock and in options to acquire SiRF common stock granted pursuant to option plans operated by SiRF and which were subsequently assumed by CSR.
With effect from completion on 26 June 2009, these interests were converted into a holding of 1,590,049 CSR ordinary shares and 46,081 options to acquire CSR ordinary shares.
Prior to the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. Kanwar Chadha held an interest in SiRF common stock and in options to acquire SiRF common stock granted pursuant to option plans operated by SiRF and which were subsequently assumed by CSR.
With effect from completion on 26 June 2009, these interests were converted into a holding of 633,510 CSR ordinary shares and 478,010 options to acquire CSR ordinary shares.
During 2009, Joep van Beurden CEO became Vice Chairman of the Global Semiconductor Alliance GSA.
CSR plc has paid membership fees of $25,000 to the GSA in the course of 2010 2009: $32,600.
These transactions were at arms length.
Acquisition of subsidiary SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. under IFRS 3 2008 On 26 June 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. a semiconductor supplier of Global Positioning System or GPS based location technology solutions, for a consideration of $281.5 million.
Each share of SiRF common stock was exchanged for 0.741 of a CSR plc ordinary share, par value 0.001 per share.
The acquisition provides CSR with leading capability in GPS which complements CSRs existing Bluetooth and Wi-Fi solutions.
The Group exchanged 47,658,246 shares in CSR plc for 100% of the issued share capital of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. at a CSR plc share price of 3.4925 and exchange rate of 1.6313 US dollars to GBP.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value $000 Financial assets 135,172 Inventory 14,823 Property, plant and equipment 3,165 Intangible assets 30,536 Financial liabilities 41,748 Net assets acquired 141,948 Allocation to goodwill 139,577 Total consideration 281,525 Purchase price: Fair value of shares issued 271,524 Fair value of share options exchanged 21,617 Less: unvested portion of the fair value of share options 11,492 Less: excess of fair value of vested share options over the original awards 124 281,525 Net cash inflow arising on acquisition Cash and cash equivalents acquired 66,489 Directly attributable costs 10,572 55,917 Cash and cash equivalents acquired totalled $66.5 million.
Treasury deposits and investments of $45.0 million were also acquired giving a total of $111.5 million of cash, cash equivalents, treasury deposits and investments acquired.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the Groups products in the GPS market and the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
It is not anticipated that the goodwill will be tax deductible.
The gross value of financial assets acquired includes receivables with a gross value of $26.1m.
The fair value of those receivables acquired is $23.7 million.
SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. contributed $130.0 million to revenue and a profit of $21.4 million to loss before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. had been completed on the first day of the accounting period, Group revenues for the period would have been $683.9 million and Group loss would have been $14.1 million but this does not reflect any synergistic benefits of the acquisition.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 39.
Acquisition of subsidiary continued Notes to the consolidated A contingent liability was not recognised on acquisition for the litigation described in note 31 as the fair value of the liability could not financial be reliably measured as it was not possible at the time of the acquisition to make a reliable estimate of the outcome of this litigation statements due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation and the early stage of proceedings at that time.
continued APT Licensing Limited On 20 July 2010, CSR plc acquired 100% of the issued share capital of APT Licensing Limited APT, a leading ultra-high quality codec developer, for a consideration of $3.9 million.
The acquisition will enhance CSRs technical capability in audio codecs and strengthen and the Groups presence in mobile and wireless audio streaming.
The acquisition note is shown below: Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed $000 Financial assets 813 Property, plant and equipment 117 Intangible assets 2,500 Financial liabilities 2,760 670 Goodwill 3,200 Total consideration 3,870 Satisfied by: Cash 2,330 Contingent consideration arrangement 1,540 Total consideration transferred 3,870 Net cash outflowarising on acquisition Cash consideration 2,330 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 428 1,902 The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of $0.11 million and a gross contractual value of $0.14 million.
The best estimate, at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected is $0.03 million.
The goodwill of $3.2 million arising from the acquisition is attributable to future customer contracts, the development of future apt-X technology and the assembled APT workforce which are not recognisable as an asset.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The contingent consideration arrangement is dependent on the volume of shipments of APT products in the period from the acquisition date to 31 December 2011.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between $nil and $3.0 million and is payable on 31 December 2011.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of $1.54 million was estimated on the basis of a probability weighted forecast of the number of units of APT products to be sold in the earn-out period, discounted at 3.4%.
Acquisition-related costs included within administrative expenses in the CSR plc consolidated income statement for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 amounted to $0.4 million.
As a condition of the acquisition agreement, CSR re-paid $2.0 million of outstanding loans of APT on completion of the acquisition.
APT Licensing Limited contributed $0.2 million to revenue and a loss of $0.2 million to the Groups profit for the period between the date of the acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of APT Licensing Limited had been completed on the first day of the accounting period, Group revenues for the period would have been $801.0 million and Group profit would have been $15.3 million.
This is the end of the consolidated financial statements.
Thereafter, the disclosures relate to the Company only.
