This Annual Report does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire or Directors report other dispose of any CSR plc shares.
information This Annual Report contains statements that are forward looking statements in relation to the future financial and operating performance and outlook of CSR.
These forward looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward looking statements can be identified by words such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, plans, should, may and other similar expressions, and include statements relating to, among other things, expected growth in 2011 and beyond, expected developments in our product portfolio, expected revenues, expected annualised operating costs savings, expected future cash generation, expected future design wins and increase in market share, expected incorporation of our products in those of our customers, adoption of new technologies, the expectation of volume shipments of our products, opportunities in our industry and our ability to take advantage of those opportunities, the potential success to be derived from strategic partnerships, the potential impact of capacity constraints, the effect of our financial performance on our share price, the impact of government regulation, expected performance against adverse economic conditions, and other Cautionary note expectations and beliefs of our management.
regarding All forward looking statements are based upon numerous assumptions regarding CSRs business strategies and the environment in which CSR will operate and therefore involve a number of known and forward unknown risks, contingencies, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of CSR.
Actual results and developments could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these looking forward looking statements as a result of numerous risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: statements the ability to realise the expected synergies from acquisitions in the amounts or in the timeframe anticipated: a continuing or worsening economic downturn, which could reduce demand for consumer products: risks relating to forecasting consumer demand for and the relevance, and market acceptance, of CSRs products and the products that use CSRs products: risks associated with securing sufficient capacity from the third-parties that manufacture, assemble and test CSRs products and other risks relating to CSRs fabless business model: declines in the average selling prices of CSRs products: risks associated with existing or future litigation: costs associated with the development of new products in response to market demand and CSRs ability to ensure timely delivery of such products: errors or failures in the hardware or software components of CSRs products: cancellation of existing orders or the failure to secure new orders: risks associated with acquiring and protecting intellectual property and other commercially sensitive information: the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry: the potential for disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly or testing services due to changes in business conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, public health concerns or other factors: CSRs ability to manage past and future acquisitions: CSRs ability to attract and retain key personnel, including engineers and technical personnel: the difficulty in predicting future results: and other risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, including, without limitation, under the heading Risk Factors on pages 34 to 41.
Each forward looking statement speaks only as of the date hereof.
CSR does not undertake to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward looking statements contained herein, otherwise than required by law.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
This Annual Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes: Notes: Notes: Where we operate We have offices in 22 locations globally, employing around 1,550 people, and we will continue to evolve this network, ensuring that CSR draws on the best talent in the world.
Locations Europe 1 Denmark, Aalborg 2 France, Sophia Antipolis 3 Sweden, Stockholm 4 UK, Belfast 5 UK, Cambridge USA 6 USA, Cedar Rapids 3 7 USA, Detroit 1 8 USA, Phoenix 4 5 9 USA, Richardson Texas 10 USA, San Jose 2 12 11 USA, Santa Ana 7 6 20 19 17 10 Asia 11 8 13 9 12 China, Beijing 16 22 14 13 China, Shanghai 21 14 China, Shenzhen 15 15 India, Bangalore 16 India, Noida 17 Japan, Tokyo 18 18 Singapore 19 South Korea, Gumi 20 South Korea, Seoul 21 Taiwan, Chungli 22 Taiwan, Taipei Revive 50:50 Silk contains 50% recycled waste and 50% FSC certified and ECF Elemental Chlorine Free virgin pulp.
CSR plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 8mm spine if spine needs adjustment please ensure Back Cover 210mm Front Cover 210mm Inside Flap 200mm text and objects stay in their relevant positions This is the Annual Report of CSR plc for the 52 week period ended Corporate Headquarters Our mission 31 December 2010.
It complies with UK regulations and is the CSR plc Annual Report on Form 20-F for the US Securities and Exchange At CSR our mission is to make our Commission to meet US regulations.
Cross references to the itemized Churchill House headings of the Form 20-F are included on page 146.
This Annual customers successful by providing Cambridge Business Park Report has been sent to shareholders who have elected to receive a copy.
A separate notice of the annual general meeting to be held Cowley Road innovative technologies that enrich on 18 May 2011 has been issued to all shareholders.
Cambridge CB4 0WZ consumer experience in a location-aware, In this Annual Report, references to CSR, the Group, United Kingdom the Company, we, and our are to CSR plc and its subsidiaries wire-free connected world.
including SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. which became a subsidiary of CSR in June 2009 and lines of business, or any T 44 1223 692000 of them as the context may require.
Unless otherwise stated, all non-financial statistics are at 31 December 2010.
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements with respect to the Groups financial condition, operating results and business strategy, plans and objectives.
Please see the section entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements and the discussion of our principal risks and uncertainties in the section entitled Risk Factors.
com Directors report Financial statements This Annual Report includes measures which are not defined CSR plc by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, such as 68 Independent auditors report 01 Chairmans statement International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS.
These to the members of CSR plc non-GAAP measures are included in this Annual Report because 03 Chief Executives review the directors believe they are useful to investors.
Our management Annual Report 70 Consolidated income 05 Business and financial uses these non-GAAP measures, along with the most directly statement comparable GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our operating review performance and value creation.
These non-GAAP measures include 71 Consolidated statement of and Form 20-F 34 Risk factors underlying research and development expenses, underlying sales, comprehensive income marketing and administration expenses, underlying gross profit, 42 Board of Directors underlying operating profit, underlying net profit, underlying 72 Consolidated balance sheet 2010 diluted earnings per share, underlying tax, underlying cost of 44 Corporate governance 73 Consolidated statement of sales, and free cash flow.
For a detailed discussion of the reasons 53 Remuneration report behind this presentation and full reconciliations of each measure to the changes in equity most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to the discussion on 64 Other statutory 76 Consolidated cash flow pages 10 and 30 to 34. information statement Statutory income statement information is given on page 70 of the 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
This Annual Report contains references to CSRs website.
These references are for convenience only we are not financial statements incorporating by reference any information posted on www.
117 Company statement of This Annual Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance comprehensive income with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the 118 Company statement of liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject changes in equity to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
119 Company balance sheet 120 Company cash flow statement 121 Notes to the company financial statements Directors report other information 128 Five year summary 129 Directors report Corporate and share information 142 CSRs worldwide offices 143 Glossary of industry terms 146 Form 20-F cross reference guide 149 Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements
