54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued are announced at the AGM after the results of the show of hands Companies Act 2006, the Company sought shareholder approval is known and are posted on the Companys website following the at the 2007 AGM, subject to certain requirements, to communicate conclusion of the meeting.
Other information which shareholders and third parties are entitled to access is made The Company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of available in accordance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
proxies lodged on each resolution.
It also publishes the level of Where company law permits, the Company notifies shareholders of votes for and against resolutions and the number of abstentions.
the electronic publication of notices of meetings on its website.
The Company ensures that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Compliance with the provisions contained in Code Throughout the year the Group was in compliance with the Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially discrete provisions of Section 1 of the Code except for provision A.
1.3. subject and the Company does propose a resolution at the AGM where for the reasons stated at page 50, the Senior Independent relating to the Annual Report and financial statements.
Director together with the other Non-executive Directors did not meet without the Chairman present to appraise his performance.
Access to information Electronic communication continues to become the principal Approval medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder The Corporate Governance report and the Audit Committee report information and reports.
Recognising this, Annual Reports and contained in it have been approved by the Board.
Annual and Interim financial statements are published on the Companys website.
Pursuant to changes introduced by the Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Group and Company financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group financial position of the Group and Company, financial performance and of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the of the Group and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, of the corporate and financial information included on the Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Errors and then apply them consistently: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ present information, including accounting policies, in a manner from legislation in other jurisdictions.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Mark Allen Chief Executive specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to Alastair Murray Finance Director understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the financial position of the Group and Company and performance of the Group: state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and make judgements and estimates that are responsible and prudent.
