60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Accounting policies Year ended 31 March 2010 Basis of preparation presentation has been applied for the period ended 31 March 2010.
The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented in Comparative information has been restated so that it is also in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million million conformity with the revised standard.
The impact of the application of IFRS 8 is disclosed in Note 1 The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have of the accounts.
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The Company financial statements have been prepared The application of the remaining standards and interpretations has in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in not had a material effect on the net assets, result and disclosures accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards with an income statement and related notes.
effective date after the date of these accounts and interpretations: The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Reporting Standards and liabilities within the next financial year are i the measurement effective from 1 July 2009 of the impairment of goodwill, ii the measurement of dened benefit IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption for First-time pension scheme assets and obligations and iii the measurement Adopters effective from 1 January 2010 of fair value less costs to sell of Wexford Creamery Limited WCL, IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from held as a disposal group.
Comparative IFRS 7 disclosures effective from 1 July 2010 i The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the Payment Transactions effective from 1 January 2010 cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
This requires IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised January 2008 effective estimation of future cash ows and the selection of a suitable from 1 July 2009 discount rate.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classication & Measurement ii Measurement of dened benefit pension obligations requires effective from 1 January 2013 estimation of future changes in salaries and ination, mortality rates, IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised effective from the expected return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable 1 January 2011 discount rate.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised iii Measurement of the fair value less costs to sell of WCL are based January 2008 effective from 1 July 2009 on expected consideration for our controlling stake taking into IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32: Classication of Rights Issues account expected consideration for any remaining stake and any effective from 1 February 2010 other expected commercial arrangements to be put in place with IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items effective from 1 July 2009 WCL as a result of the expected disposal.
Improvements to IFRS issued April 2009 Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Changes in accounting policies IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners effective The following accounting standards and interpretations became from 1 July 2009 effective for the current reporting period: IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers effective from IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements 1 July 2009 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share based payment: Vesting Conditions IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments and Cancellations effective from 1 July 2010 IFRS 8 Operating Segments Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs The Group has not early adopted the revised IFRS 3 and so will apply Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving disclosures about it prospectively to all business combinations on or after 1 April 2010.
Financial Instruments Whilst it is not possible to estimate the outcome of adoption, the key Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments features of the revised IFRS 3 include a requirement for acquisitionand Obligations Arising on Liquidation related costs to be expensed and not included in the purchase price: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and for contingent consideration to be recognised at fair value on IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised in the IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation income statement and not as a change to goodwill.
The standard IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from customers also changes the treatment of minority interests with an option to Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2008 recognise these at full fair value as at the acquisition date and a requirement for previously held minority interests to be fair valued The application of IAS 1 Revised has resulted in the Group as at the date control is obtained, with gains and losses recognised presenting a consolidated statement of changes in equity as a in the income statement.
The consolidated statement of changes in equity was previously presented as a note to the financial information and IAS 27 revised is effective for annual periods beginning on or after presents all changes in equity including those arising from transactions 1 July 2009, in line with revised IFRS 3.
The revised standard no with the owners.
The consolidated statement of comprehensive longer restricts the allocation to minority interest of losses incurred income was previously described as the Consolidated Statement by a subsidiary to the amount of the minority equity investment in of Recognised Income and Expense and presents all changes in the subsidiary.
financial position other than through transactions with owners.
This Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 61 Any future partial disposal of equity interest in a subsidiary that Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences does not result in a loss of control will be accounted for as an equity on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
transaction and will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give rise to any gain or loss.
Where there is loss of control of a subsidiary, Property, plant and equipment any retained interest will have to be remeasured to fair value, which Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated will impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal.
depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over Consolidation the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each year Freehold buildings: 25 years using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and Leasehold land and buildings: 2 5 years or, if shorter, transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from the period of the lease intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Ofce equipment: 4 to 6 years Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date Vehicles: 4 to 10 years on which control is transferred to the Group.
At 31 March 2010, minority interests represent the 20% interest in Wexford Creamery The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for Limited not held by the Group.
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value Interest in associates exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down The Groups investments in joint ventures are accounted for under to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are entities over equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value which the Group has joint control under contractual agreement and in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows which are not subsidiaries.
The Company and joint ventures both use are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate consistent accounting policies.
The investment in joint ventures is that reects current market assessments of the time value of money carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures, less any generate largely independent cash ows, the recoverable amount is impairment in value and any distributions received.
The consolidated determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
income statement reects the share of the results of the joint Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint ventures equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon and discloses this, when applicable in other comprehensive income.
disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on Foreign currency translation derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc statement in the year that it is derecognised.
and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is Pound Sterling.
The functional currency of Wexford Creamery Limited and St Hubert SAS, Borrowing costs subsidiary companies incorporated in Ireland and France respectively, Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction is the Euro.
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional cost of the respective assets.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on they occur.
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges and qualifying net Investments investment hedges.
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost being the fair value of consideration paid.
Income is recognised from On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are these investments only in relation to distributions received from translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of post-acquisition profits.
Distributions received in excess of postforeign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of acquisition profits are deducted from the cost of investment.
exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the Goodwill net investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition less exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not a hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate subsequently amortised.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over are met.
Exchange differences relating to foreign currency borrowings the Groups acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identiable that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more The numbers 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Accounting policies continued frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that Research and development the carrying value may be impaired.
All goodwill was tested for Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no impairment expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future was identied.
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to Recoverable amount of non-current assets benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this unless the asset does not generate cash inows that are largely circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first goodwill, are Dairies, UK Spreads, St Hubert, Speciality Cheese out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads and Cheese excluding Speciality Cheese.
These represent the based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing each lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value purposes and are no larger than the segments being Dairies is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less and Foods.
estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been Trade and other receivables charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the when identied.
Acquisitions prior to this date are recorded under previous accounting rules.
IFRS 1 requires that an Assets in disposal groups classied as held for sale impairment review of goodwill should be conducted in accordance Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for with IAS 36 at the date of transition and at the balance sheet date.
sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition: This review was performed and no adjustment was required.
a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classication.
Such assets are measured at the Intangible assets lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are depreciated or amortised.
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected Cash and cash equivalents economic benets ow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash ow statement, cash and The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite or cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have nite useful above, net of bank overdrafts.
lives and are amortised over 3 to 25 years.
The significant acquired brands have useful lives as follows: Interest-bearing loans All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value St Hubert 25 years of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with Le Fleurier 15 years the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and Vall 15 years borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Gains and losses are recognised in net profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised.
Intangible assets acquired separately from business combinations include software development expenditure.
Software is carried at Net debt cost less accumulated amortisation.
Software is amortised over five The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash years.
Intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases.
The calculation for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial instruments unit level or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances with the exception of cross currency swaps to x foreign currency indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash ow hedges.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 63 In this case the xed Sterling debt, not the underlying foreign managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
It includes any that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classied as the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income held for sale.
statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Retirement benefit obligations No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, The asset or liability in respect of dened benefit schemes is the except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or present value of the relevant dened benefit obligation at the balance non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, past service costs not yet recognised.
The independent actuary provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension fund and the Wexford Creamery plan triennially.
The obligation is Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a updated annually for financial reporting purposes by the actuary non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the is not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outows using and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, which have terms to award is expensed immediately.
maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
The Company adopted IFRIC 11 in the year ended 31 March 2008.
The current service costs are recognised in operating costs in Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity the consolidated income statement, classied as cost of sales, instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the distribution costs or administrative expenses depending upon which Companys balance sheet.
area of the business active members are employed in.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benets have vested, Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees period.
The expected return on assets of funded dened benefit Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at the finance element of the pension cost and the difference between shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such these amounts are included in other finance income or costs.
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments in the consolidated income statement.
and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full and are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to in which they arise.
apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
IFRIC 14 was implemented in the year ended 31 March 2008.
The recognition of any future retirement benefit surplus as calculated by Leased assets the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, is Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the any real cash benefit the Company will obtain in the future through leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value either reduced potential contributions or cash on a winding up of the of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum scheme.
In order to calculate the potential future benets lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements agreed included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of between the Company and the Pension Trustee.
lease rentals is charged to the consolidated income statement in the year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and Share based payments benets of ownership of the asset are classied as operating leases.
Equity based performance payments Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income The Group and Company have issued equity-settled share based statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees in consideration for the equity instrument.
Equity-settled share based Revenue payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant date by Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions sales within the Group.
linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to payment is established.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the Other income grant date fair value.
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed sites and household depots.
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over Exceptional items the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated income employees became fully entitled to the award.
At each balance statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better The numbers 64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Accounting policies continued understanding of the underlying operational performance of the is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Government and other grants each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where are offset only if a legal enforcement right exists to set off current tax there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods make a single net payment.
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive is released to the consolidated income statement over the expected income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
if it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Income tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount Financial assets expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, The Group and Company classies financial assets that are within based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively the scope of IAS 39 as financial assets at fair value through profit enacted at the balance sheet date.
and loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: or as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the and Company determines the classication of financial assets at balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except year end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable Derivative instruments temporary differences except: The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or currency uctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting at the reported balance sheet date.
profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary proles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and cross-currency swap differences can be controlled and it is probable that the contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
instruments and specic valuations performed by counterparties at the period end.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classied as either: unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: utilised except: cash ow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset transaction, or a rm commitment in relation to foreign exchange or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, exposure: or at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to nor taxable profit or loss: and variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent hedges during the year.
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against Cash ow hedges which the temporary differences can be utilised.
In relation to cash ow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or recognised in the consolidated income statement.
part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are When the hedged rm commitment in relation to foreign exchange expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 65 recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash ow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when debt matures.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated income statement for the year.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation of those borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, with any ineffective portion being recognised in the consolidated income statement whenever applicable.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are recycled through the consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group or Company documents in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group or Company also documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular basis being at least half-yearly to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in other comprehensive income until the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
When the contracts are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are designated at inception and treated as described above.
