chairMans sTaTeMenT DirecTors reporT Financial sTaTeMenTs Business review corporaTe Governance shareholDer inForMaTion corporaTe responsiBiliTy reMuneraTion reporT siGniFicanT accounTinG policies accounting policies set out in the 2009 the amount presented in trade and 1 Basis oF preparaTion annual report and accounts, with the other receivables was 9.9 million DMGT is a company incorporated in the exception of the change in accounting in relation to joint ventures and united Kingdom.
The address of the policy described below and as 0.3 million in relation to associates.
registered office is given on page 160. amended by the new accounting This reclassification aligns the Groups These financial statements have been standards set out below.
presentation more closely with the prepared in accordance with requirements of the relevant The Group financial statements international Financial reporting accounting standards.
incorporate the financial statements of standards iFrs issued by the the company and all of its subsidiaries impact of new international accounting standards together with the Groups share of all of accounting standards Board as adopted by the european its interests in joint ventures and The following new and revised union and with those parts of the associates.
The financial statements standards and interpretations have companies act 2006 applicable to have been prepared on the historical been adopted in the current year.
The companies preparing their accounts cost basis, except for the revaluation of adoption of these standards and under iFrs.
interpretations on the amounts reported These financial statements have been in the condensed consolidated prepared for the 52 weeks ending 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG financial statements are as follows: 3rd october, 2010.
The Group and its policies improving disclosures about financial national and local media divisions, change in accounting policy instruments amendments to iFrs 7 prepare financial statements for a 52 or The Groups defined benefit pension Financial instruments: Disclosures 53-week financial period ending on a scheme charge under ias 19, employee ias 1 2007 presentation of financial sunday near to the end of september.
Benefits, contains financing statements The Group has prepared the 2010 components which comprise the ias 1 2007 requires the presentation of financial statements on the basis of a expected return on scheme assets and a statement of changes in equity as a 52-week financial year to 3rd october an interest cost on scheme liabilities.
in primary statement, separate from the 2010, having been prepared on the order to provide a more relevant consolidated income statement and basis of a 53-week year in 2009 in order presentation to assist the user of these statement of comprehensive income.
to ensure that the Groups year end accounts to understand the as a result, a consolidated statement of remains close to the end of september.
components of the Groups defined changes in equity has been included in as the current financial year is 52 weeks, benefit pension scheme charge, the the primary statements, showing the comparative figures for the 53 Group has chosen to present these changes in each component of equity weeks ended 4th october, 2009 are not financing elements within net Finance for each period presented.
The revised entirely comparable with the amounts costs.
previously these were included standard also requires that restatements presented for the current financial year within operating profit along with the show two statements of Financial as the comparative figures include the service cost element.
accordingly the position for comparison and so certain results of the national and local media comparatives presented in these information from the 2009 annual divisions for 53 weeks.
consolidated financial statements have report and accounts has been The Groups remaining divisions prepare been restated.
included in the 2010 annual report and financial statements for a financial year in the consolidated income statement accounts, where appropriate.
to 30th september and do not prepare this change in accounting policy has iFrs 3 2008 Business combinations additional financial statements resulted in a reclassification of a return and ias 27 2008 consolidated and corresponding to the Groups financial on scheme assets of 116.2 million and separate Financial statements.
year for consolidation purposes as it an interest cost of 111.4 million from would be impracticable to do so.
as a as a consequence of the adoption of operating profit to net finance costs in result, the financial statements are these standards, the Group has applied the 53 weeks to 4th october, 2009. in comparable in relation to those the following policies on a prospective the current year the amount presented elements of the comparatives that basis with regard to business in net finance costs is a net charge of relate to the Groups other divisions.
The combinations and purchases and sales 2.2 million.
Group considers whether there have of shares in a controlled entity effected reclassification of loans to joint been any significant transactions or after october 4th, 2009.
Transactions ventures and associates events between the end of the financial which completed prior to october 4th, The Group has reclassified loans to joint year of the other divisions and the end 2009 have not been restated and ventures and associates from of the Groups financial year and remain as previously reported.
investment in joint ventures and makes any material adjustments as appropriate.
associates to trade and other receivables.
The amount reclassified in The significant accounting policies used respect of joint ventures at 4th october, in preparing this information are set out 2009 was 7.5 million 2008 6.2 million in note 2. and the amount reclassified in respect These financial statements have also of associates as at 4th october, 2009 been prepared in accordance with the was nil 2008 nil.
in the current year 71 Daily Mail anD General TrusT plc annual reporT 2010 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies conTinueD 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued comprehensive income are reclassified recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries and to the consolidated income statement where an adjustment to fair values where such treatment would be relating to previously held interests businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration appropriate if the interest were including interests which were equity disposed of.
accounted under ias 28, investments in for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, associates is required on achieving purchases and sales of shares in a control, this is accounted for as an liabilities incurred or assumed, and controlled entity equity instruments issued by the Group adjustment directly in equity.
where the Groups interest in a in exchange for control of the acquiree.
controlled entity increases, the nonGoodwill arising on acquisitions is acquisition-related costs are now controlling interests share of net assets, recognised as an asset and initially recognised in the consolidated income excluding any allocation of goodwill, is measured at cost, being the excess of statement as incurred.
any the cost of the business combination difference between the cost of the over the Groups interest in the net fair where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or additional interest and the existing value of the identifiable assets, liabilities carrying value of the non-controlling and contingent liabilities recognised.
liability resulting from a contingent arrangement, measured at its interests share of net assets is recorded where control is achieved in more than in retained earnings.
one exchange transaction, goodwill is acquisition date fair value.
subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted calculated separately for each where the Groups interest in a transaction based on the cost of each through the consolidated income controlled entity decreases, but the statement.
all other changes in the fair transaction and the appropriate share Group retains control, the share of net of the acquirees net assets based value of contingent consideration assets disposed, excluding any classified as an asset or liability are on net fair values at the time of allocation of goodwill, is transferred to each transaction.
accounted for in accordance with the non-controlling interest.
changes in the fair value difference between the proceeds The interest of non-controlling interest in of contingent consideration classified of the disposal and the existing the acquiree is initially measured at the as equity are not recognised.
carrying value of the net assets or non-controlling interests proportion of if the initial accounting for a business liabilities transferred to the nonthe net fair value of the assets, liabilities combination is incomplete by the end controlling interests is recorded in and contingent liabilities recognised.
of the reporting period in which the retained earnings.
purchase and sale of shares in a combination occurs, the Group reports Disposal of controlling interests where controlled entity occurring prior to provisional amounts for the items for non-controlling interest retained 4th october, 2009 which the accounting is incomplete.
where the Group disposes of where the Groups interest in a Those provisional amounts are adjusted a controlling interest but retains controlled entity increases, no during the measurement period, or a non-controlling interest in the adjustments are recorded to the fair additional assets or liabilities are business, the Group accounts for the values of the assets already held on the recognised, to reflect new information disposal of a subsidiary and the consolidated statement of Financial obtained about facts and subsequent acquisition of a joint position.
The Group calculates the circumstances that existed as of the venture, associate or available-for-sale goodwill arising as the difference date of the acquisition that, if known, asset at fair value on initial recognition.
between the cost of the additional would have affected the amounts on disposal of a subsidiary all amounts interest acquired and the increase in recognised as of that date.
deferred in equity are recycled to the the Groups interest in the fair value of consolidated income statement.
the subsidiarys net assets at the date of The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the exchange transaction.
any Business combinations occurring difference between the cost of the the Group obtains complete prior to 4th october, 2009 information about facts and additional interest, goodwill arising and The acquisition of subsidiaries is the existing carrying value of the circumstances that existed as of the accounted for using the purchase acquisition date and is a maximum of non-controlling interests share of net method.
The cost of the acquisition is assets is adjusted directly in equity.
measured as the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of where the Groups interest in a Business combinations achieved in stages assets given, liabilities incurred or controlled entity decreases, which does assumed, and equity instruments issued not result in a change of control, the where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups by the Group in exchange for control of Group increases the non-controlling the acquiree, plus any costs directly interests share of net assets by the book previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at attributable to the business value of the share of net assets combination.
any profit or loss on disposal the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in identifiable assets, liabilities and of the share of net assets to the noncontingent liabilities are recognised at controlling interest is calculated by the consolidated income statement.
amounts arising from interests in the their fair values at the acquisition date, reference to the consideration other than non-current assets and received, the book value of the share of acquiree prior to the acquisition date that were recognised in other liabilities of disposal groups which are net assets disposed and a proportion of 72 chairMans sTaTeMenT DirecTors reporT Financial sTaTeMenTs Business review corporaTe Governance shareholDer inForMaTion corporaTe responsiBiliTy reMuneraTion reporT 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued any relevant goodwill in the iFric 17 Distributions of non-cash foreseeable future.
accordingly, they consolidated statement of Financial assets to owners: continue to adopt the going concern position relating to the subsidiary.
iFric 18 Transfers of assets from basis in preparing the financial customers: statements.
standards not affecting the reported results or the At the date of authorisation of the accounting for subsidiaries combined financial information, the financial position: a subsidiary is an entity controlled by following standards and interpretations, The following new and revised the Group.
control is achieved where which have not been applied in the standards and interpretations have the Group has the power to govern the combined financial statements, were in been adopted in the current year.
Their financial and operating policies of an issue but not yet effective and in some adoption has not had any significant entity so as to obtain benefits from its cases had not yet been adopted by the impact on the amounts reported in the activities.
Their adoption is not expected to financial statements but may impact The results of subsidiaries acquired or have a significant impact on the the accounting for future transactions disposed of during the year are amounts reported in the financial and arrangements: included in the consolidated income statements but may impact the iFrs 1 amended ias 27 amended accounting for future transactions statement from the effective date cost of an investment in a subsidiary, and arrangements: control is obtained or up to the date Jointly controlled entity or associate: control is relinquished, as appropriate.
improvement to iFrss 2010: iFrs 2 revised share-Based where necessary, adjustments are iFrs 9 Financial instruments: payment: vesting conditions and made to the financial statements of ias 24 revised 2009 related party cancellations: subsidiaries to bring their accounting Disclosures: iFrs 5 revised non-current assets policies into line with those used by improvements to iFrss april 2009 : held for sale and Discontinued other members of the Group.
ias 32 amended 2009 classification operations: of rights issues: all intra-group transactions, balances, improvements to iFrss 2008 iFric 19 extinguishing Financial income and expenses are eliminated including: liabilities with equity instruments.
amendment to ias 38 intangible assets: Going concern non-controlling interests amendment to ias 40 investment The Groups business activities, together non-controlling interests in the net property: with the factors likely to affect its future assets of consolidated subsidiaries are amendment to ias 20 accounting development, performance and identified separately from the Groups for Government Grants and position are set out in the Financial and equity therein.
non-controlling interests Disclosure of Government Treasury review on pages 29 to 33, the consist of the amount of those interests assistance: and Business review on pages 4 to 33 and at the date of the original business amendment to iFrs 2 sharethe Directors report on pages 38 to 46. combination and the non-controlling based payment vesting The Groups funding arrangements, interests share of changes in equity conditions and cancellations: together with details of undrawn since the date of the combination.
facilities, are disclosed in notes 31 and losses attributable to the nonias 32 puttable financial instruments 32. controlling interest in excess of the and obligations arising on non-controlling interests share in equity liquidation: as highlighted in notes 31 and 32 to the are allocated against the interests of amendment to ias 39 Financial financial statements, the company has the Group except to the extent that the instruments: recognition and long-term financing in the form of non-controlling interest has a binding Measurement and iFrs 7 Financial eurobonds and meets its day-to-day obligation and is able to make an instruments: Disclosure regarding working capital requirements through additional investment to cover such reclassifications of financial assets: bank facilities which expire in one to losses.
when the subsidiary ias 23 revised 2007 Borrowing costs: three years.
The current economic subsequently reports profits, the amendments to ias 32 Financial conditions create uncertainty non-controlling interest does not instruments: presentation and ias 1 particularly over the future participate until the group has presentation of Financial statements performance of those parts of the recovered all of the losses of the puttable Financial instruments and business that derive a significant non-controlling interest it previously obligations arising on liquidation: proportion of revenue from advertising.
iFric 9 reassessments of embedded The Boards forecasts and projections, derivatives and ias 39 Financial after taking account of reasonably instruments: recognition and possible changes in trading Measurement: performance, show that the company is ias 39 amended 2008 eligible expected to operate within the terms of hedged items: its current facilities.
after making iFric 15 agreements for the enquiries, the Directors have a construction of real estate: reasonable expectation that the Group iFric 16 hedges of a net investment will have access to adequate resources in a Foreign operation: to continue in existence for the 73 Daily Mail anD General TrusT plc annual reporT 2010 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies conTinueD 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued on disposal of a foreign operation, the asset at cost and is subsequently interests in joint ventures and associates cumulative amount recognised in measured at cost less any accumulated equity relating to that operation is impairment losses.
negative goodwill a joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and recognised in the consolidated income arising on an acquisition is recognised statement as part of the gain or loss directly in the consolidated income other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, on sale.
that is when the strategic financial and The Group records foreign exchange Goodwill and fair value adjustments operating policy decisions relating to differences arising on retranslation of arising on the acquisition of a foreign the activities require the unanimous foreign operations within the translation entity are treated as assets and consent of the parties sharing control.
liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing exchange an associate is an entity over which the in preparing the financial statements of Group has significant influence and that rates on the period end date.
the individual entities, transactions in is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a currencies other than the entitys Goodwill arising before the date of joint venture.
significant influence is the functional currency are recorded at the transition to iFrs, on 4th october, 2004, power to participate in the financial exchange rate prevailing on the date of has been retained at the previous uK and operating policy decisions of the the transaction.
at each period end Gaap amounts, subject to being tested investee, but is not control or joint date, monetary items denominated in for impairment at that date.
foreign currencies are retranslated at on disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly The post-tax results of joint ventures and the rates prevailing on the period controlled entity, the attributable end date.
associates are incorporated in the amount of goodwill is included in the Groups results using the equity method non-monetary items carried at fair determination of the profit or loss of accounting.
under the equity value that are denominated in foreign recognised in the consolidated income method, investments in joint ventures currencies are retranslated at the rate statement on disposal.
Goodwill written and associates are carried in the prevailing on the date when fair value off to reserves under uK Gaap prior to consolidated statement of Financial was determined.
non-monetary items 1998 has not been reinstated and is not position at a cost as adjusted for that are measured in terms of historical included in determining any post-acquisition changes in the Groups cost in a foreign currency are not subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
share of the net assets of the joint retranslated.
impairment of goodwill venture and associate, less any exchange differences arising on the Goodwill is reviewed for impairment impairment in the value of investment.
settlement of monetary items, and on either annually or more frequently if losses of joint ventures and associates in the retranslation of monetary items, are events or changes in circumstances excess of the of the Groups interest in included in the consolidated income indicate a possible decline in the that joint venture or associate are not statement for the period.
additional losses are provided for, and a liability is Goodwill, intangible assets and fair For the purpose of impairment testing, recognised, only to the extent that the value adjustments arising on the assets are grouped at the lowest levels Group has incurred legal or acquisition of foreign operations after for which there are separately constructive obligations or made transition to iFrs are treated as part of identifiable cash flows, known as payments on behalf of the joint venture the assets and liabilities of the foreign cash-generating units.
operation and are translated at the recoverable amount of the cashclosing rate.
Goodwill which arose generating unit is less than the carrying any excess of the cost of acquisition pre-transition to iFrs is not translated.
amount of the unit, the impairment loss over the Groups share of the net fair is allocated first to reduce the carrying value of the identifiable assets, liabilities in respect of all foreign operations, any amount of any goodwill allocated to and contingent liabilities of the joint cumulative exchange differences that the unit and then to the other assets of venture or associate recognised at the have arisen before 4th october, 2004, the unit, pro-rated on the basis of the date of acquisition is recognised as the date of transition to iFrs, were reset carrying amount of each asset in the goodwill.
The goodwill is included within to nil and will be excluded from the unit, but subject to not reducing any the carrying amount of the investment.
determination of any subsequent profit asset below its recoverable amount.
Foreign currencies impairment loss recognised for goodwill For the purpose of presenting intangible assets is not reversed in a subsequent period.
consolidated financial statements, the Goodwill The recoverable amount is the higher of assets and liabilities of entities with a Goodwill and intangible assets fair value less costs to sell and value in functional currency other than sterling acquired arising on the acquisition of use.
in assessing value in use, the are translated to sterling using an entity represents the excess of the estimated future cash flows are exchange rates prevailing on the cost of acquisition over the Groups discounted to their present value using period end date.
income and expense interest in the net fair value of the a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the items and cash flows are translated at identifiable assets, liabilities and current market assessments of the time the average exchange rates for the contingent liabilities of the entity value of money and the risks specific to period and exchange differences recognised at the date of acquisition.
the asset or cash-generating unit.
arising are recognised directly in equity.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an 74 chairMans sTaTeMenT DirecTors reporT Financial sTaTeMenTs Business review corporaTe Governance shareholDer inForMaTion corporaTe responsiBiliTy reMuneraTion reporT 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued any impairment is recognised an internally generated intangible asset use and fair value less costs to sell, of immediately in the consolidated arising from the Groups development the asset is estimated in order to income statement and is not activity, including software for internal determine the extent, if any, of the subsequently reversed.
use, is recognised only if the asset can impairment loss.
where the asset does be separately identified, it is probable not generate cash flows that are licences the asset will generate future economic independent from other assets, value in radio licences are stated at cost less benefits, the development cost can be use estimates are made based on the accumulated amortisation.
measured reliably, the project is cash flows of the cash-generating unit amortisation is charged to the technically feasible and the project will to which the asset belongs.
consolidated income statement on a be completed with a view to sell or use straight-line basis over the estimated if the recoverable amount of an asset or the asset.
additionally, guidance in useful lives from the commencement of cash-generating unit is estimated to be standing interpretations committee service of the network, estimated by less than its net carrying amount, the sic 32 has been applied in management to be 20 years.
net carrying amount of the asset or accounting for internally developed cash-generating unit is reduced to its computer software licences are website development costs.
impairment losses capitalised on the basis of the costs internally generated intangible assets are recognised immediately in the incurred to acquire and bring into use are amortised on a straight-line basis consolidated income statement.
These costs are over their estimated useful lives, when amortised over their estimated useful The Group assesses at the end of each the asset is available for use, and are lives, being three to five years.
reporting period whether there is any reported net of impairment losses.
indication that an impairment loss costs that are directly associated with where no internally generated recognised in prior periods, for an asset the production of identifiable and intangible asset can be recognised, other than goodwill, may no longer unique software products controlled by development expenditure is charged to exist or may have decreased.
if any the Group, and that are expected to the consolidated income statement in such indication exists, the Group generate economic benefits exceeding the period in which it was incurred.
estimates the recoverable amount of costs and directly attributable Marketing costs that asset.
in assessing whether there is overheads are capitalised as Marketing and promotional costs are any indication that an impairment loss intangibles.
charged to the consolidated income recognised in prior periods for an asset computer software which is integral to statement in the period in which they other than goodwill may no longer exist a related item of hardware equipment are incurred.
or may have decreased, the Group is accounted for as property, plant and considers, as a minimum, the following other intangible assets equipment.
indications: other intangible assets with finite lives costs associated with maintaining are stated at cost less accumulated a whether the assets market value computer software programs are amortisation and impairment losses.
has increased significantly during recognised as an expense as incurred.
amortisation is charged to the the period consolidated income statement on a at each period end date, the Group b whether any significant changes reducing balance or straight-line basis reviews the carrying amounts of its with a favourable effect on the entity over the estimated useful lives of the tangible and intangible assets to have taken place during the period, intangible assets from the date they determine whether there is any or will take place in the near future, become available for use.
The indication that those assets have in the technological, market, estimated useful lives are as follows: suffered an impairment loss.
if any such economic or legal environment in indication exists, the recoverable which the entity operates or in the publishing rights, titles amount of the asset is estimated in market to which the asset is and exhibitions 5 30 years order to determine the extent of the dedicated and radio licences 20 years impairment loss if any.
where the asset Brands 3 20 years c whether market interest rates or does not generate cash flows that are Market and customerother market rates of return on independent from other assets, the related databases 3 20 years investments have decreased during Group estimates the recoverable customer relationships 3 20 years the period, and those decreases are amount of the cash-generating unit to likely to affect the discount rate used computer software which the asset belongs.
licences 2 5 years in calculating the assets value in use an intangible asset with an indefinite and increase the assets recoverable impairment of intangible assets useful life is tested for impairment amount materially.
at each period end date, reviews are annually and whenever there is carried out of the carrying amounts of an indication that the asset may tangible and intangible assets and be impaired.
goodwill to determine whether there is research and any indication that those assets have development expenditure suffered an impairment loss.
if any such expenditure on research activities is indication exists, the recoverable recognised as an expense in the period amount, which is the higher of value in in which it is incurred.
75 Daily Mail anD General TrusT plc annual reporT 2010 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies conTinueD 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued Depreciation is charged so as to write and reliable basis, revenue for each property, plant and equipment land and buildings held for use are off the cost of these assets, using the element is accounted for according to straight-line method, over their the relevant policy below.
where stated in the consolidated statement of Financial position at their cost, less any estimated useful lives as follows: transaction elements cannot be separately identified, revenue is subsequent accumulated depreciation Freehold buildings and and subsequent accumulated recognised over the contract period.
long leasehold properties 50 years impairment losses.
The principal revenue recognition Depreciation is not assets in the course of construction are policies, as applied by the Groups provided on freehold land major businesses, are as follows: carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these inventory subscriptions revenue, including inventory is stated at the lower of cost assets commences when the assets are revenue from information services, is ready for their intended use.
cost recognised over the period of the comprises direct materials and, where Fixtures and equipment are stated at subscription or contract.
applicable, direct labour costs and publishing and circulation revenue is cost less accumulated depreciation those overheads that have been and any accumulated impairment recognised on issue of publication incurred in bringing the inventories to or report.
their present location and condition.
advertising revenue is recognised on assets held under finance leases are The Group uses the average cost issue of publication, over the period depreciated over their expected useful avco method in the national and of the online campaign or on the lives on the same basis as owned assets local media divisions and the first in first date of broadcast.
or, where shorter, over the term of the out FiFo method in the remaining contract print revenue is recognised relevant lease.
on completion of the print contract.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal pre-publication costs exhibitions, training and events or retirement of an item of property, pre-publication costs represent direct revenues are recognised over the plant and equipment is determined as costs incurred in the development of period of the event.
the difference between the sales titles prior to their publication.
These software licence revenue is proceeds and the carrying amount of costs are recognised as work in progress recognised on delivery of the the asset and is recognised in the on the consolidated statement of software licence or over the period consolidated income statement.
Financial position to the extent that of the contract if support is unable to future economic benefit is virtually be separately identified and revenue Depreciation is charged so as to write certain and can be measured reliably.
allocated on a fair and reliable basis.
off the cost of assets, other than support revenue associated with property, plant and equipment under cash and cash equivalents software licences and subscriptions is construction using the straight-line cash and cash equivalents shown in recognised over the term of the method, over their estimated useful lives the consolidated statement of support contract.
as follows: Financial position includes cash, long-term contract revenue is short-term deposits and other shortFreehold buildings and long recognised under the percentage of term highly liquid investments with an leasehold properties 50 years completion method according to original maturity of three months or less.
the term of the percentage of work completed For the purpose of the consolidated short leasehold premises the lease at the period end date.
cash Flow statement, cash and cash plant and equipment 3 25 years equivalents are as defined above, net operating profit before share Depreciation is not of bank overdrafts.
of results of joint ventures provided on freehold land and associates revenue The Group discloses as operating profit, investment property Group revenue comprises revenue of profit before share of results from The Group transfers property from the company and its subsidiary associates and joint ventures, other property, plant and equipment to undertakings.
revenue is stated at the gains and losses, investment income investment property when ownerfair value of consideration, net of value and finance costs.
The Directors believe occupation ends.
investment properties added tax, trade discounts and that this measure is useful to readers as are stated in the consolidated commission where applicable and is it shows the results of the Groups statement of Financial position at their recognised using methods appropriate operations before contribution from cost, less any subsequent accumulated for the Groups businesses.
joint ventures and associates and depreciation and subsequent where revenue contracts have multiple because it excludes one-off gains and accumulated impairment losses.
elements such as software licences, losses on disposal of businesses, data subscriptions and support, the properties and similar items of a company considers all aspects of the non-recurring nature.
transaction to determine whether these other gains and losses elements can be separately identified.
other gains and losses comprise profit where transaction elements can be or loss on sale of trading investments, separately identified and revenue can profit or loss on sale of property, plant be allocated between them on a fair 76 chairMans sTaTeMenT DirecTors reporT Financial sTaTeMenTs Business review corporaTe Governance shareholDer inForMaTion corporaTe responsiBiliTy reMuneraTion reporT 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued and equipment, impairment of charge in each segment in the retirement benefits available-for-sale assets, profit or loss on as permitted by iFrs 1, First-time segmental analysis represents the sale of businesses and profit or loss on contributions payable for the period.
adoption of international Financial sale of joint ventures and associates.
reporting standards, the Group The Groups contributions to defined elected to recognise all cumulative leasing contribution pension plans are charged actuarial gains and losses in the leases are classified as finance leases to the consolidated income statement pension schemes operated by the whenever the terms of the lease transfer as they fall due.
Group at 4th october, 2004 the date of substantially all the risks and rewards Taxation transition to iFrs.
pension scheme assets of ownership of the asset to the lessee.
income tax expense represents the sum are measured at market value at the all other leases are classified as of the current tax payable and deferred period end date.
scheme liabilities are operating leases.
measured using the projected unit assets held under finance leases are credit method and discounted at a rate The current tax payable or recoverable recognised as assets of the Group at reflecting current yields on high-quality is based on the taxable profit for the their fair value at the inception of the corporate bonds having regard to the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as lease or, if lower, at the present value duration of the liability profiles of the reported in the consolidated income of the minimum lease payments as schemes.
statement because some items of determined at the inception of the income or expense are taxable or For defined benefit retirement plans, the lease.
The corresponding liability to the deductible in different years or may difference between the fair value of the lessor is included in the consolidated never be taxable or deductible.
The plan assets and the present value of the statement of Financial position as a Groups liability for current tax is plan liabilities is recognised as an asset finance lease obligation.
lease calculated using the uK and foreign tax or liability on the statement of payments are apportioned between rates that have been enacted or consolidated Financial position.
finance charges and reduction of the substantively enacted by the period actuarial gains and losses arising in the lease obligation so as to achieve a end date.
year are taken to the consolidated constant rate of interest on the statement of comprehensive income.
current tax assets and liabilities are remaining balance of the liability.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and offset and stated net in the Finance charges are recognised in the losses comprise both the effects of consolidated statement of Financial consolidated income statement.
changes in actuarial assumptions and position when there is a legally rentals payable under operating leases experience adjustments arising enforceable right to set off current tax are charged to the consolidated because of differences between the assets against current tax liabilities and income statement on a straight-line previous actuarial assumptions and when they either relate to income taxes basis over the term of the relevant what has actually occurred.
For defined levied by the same taxation authority or lease.
Benefits received and receivable benefit schemes, the cost of providing on the same taxable entity or on as an incentive to enter into an benefits is determined using the different taxable entities which intend operating lease are also spread on a projected unit credit method, with to settle the current tax assets and straight-line basis over the lease term.
actuarial valuations being carried out liabilities on a net basis.
in accordance with the Dividends Deferred tax is the tax expected to be advice of independent qualified Dividend income from investments is payable or recoverable in the future actuaries in assessing whether to recognised when the shareholders arising from temporary differences recognise a surplus, the Group has rights to receive payment have been between the carrying amounts of assets regard to the principles set out in established.
Dividends are recognised and liabilities in the financial statements iFric 14. as a distribution in the period in which and the corresponding tax bases used they are approved by the shareholders.
other movements in the net surplus or in the computation of taxable profit.
it is interim dividends are recorded in the deficit are recognised in the accounted for using the balance sheet period in which they are paid.
consolidated income statement, liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities including the current service cost, any Borrowing costs are generally recognised for all taxable past service cost and the effect of any unless capitalised under ias 23, all temporary differences and deferred tax curtailment or settlements.
The interest borrowing costs are recognised in the assets are recognised to the extent that cost less the expected return on assets consolidated income statement in the it is probable that taxable profits will be is also charged to the consolidated period in which they are incurred.
available against which deductible income statement within net Finance charges, including premiums temporary differences can be utilised.
paid on settlement or redemption and such assets and liabilities are not direct issue costs and discounts related recognised if the temporary differences since the assets and liabilities of the to borrowings, are accounted for on an arise from the initial recognition of Groups defined benefit plans cannot accruals basis and charged to the goodwill or from the initial recognition be allocated to individual entities on a consolidated income statement using other than in a business combination of fair and reasonable basis, the schemes the effective interest method.
other assets and liabilities in a assets and liabilities are not attributed transaction that affects neither the to reporting segments and the pension taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
77 Daily Mail anD General TrusT plc annual reporT 2010 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies conTinueD 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised simultaneously and where the Group Capital market and bank borrowings for taxable temporary differences intends to net settle.
interest-bearing loans and overdrafts arising in investments in subsidiaries and are initially measured at fair value Financial assets associates, and interests in joint which is equal to net proceeds at Trade receivables ventures, except where the Group is inception, and are subsequently Trade receivables do not carry any able to control the reversal of the measured at amortised cost, using the interest and are stated at their nominal temporary difference and it is probable effective interest rate method.
a portion value as reduced by appropriate that the temporary difference will not of the Groups bonds are subject to fair allowances for estimated irrecoverable reverse in the foreseeable future.
value hedge accounting as explained amounts.
below and this portion is adjusted for Goodwill arising on business available-for-sale investments the movement in the hedged risk to the combinations also includes amounts investments and financial assets are extent hedge effectiveness is achieved.
corresponding to deferred tax liabilities recognised and fide-recognised on a any difference between the proceeds, recognised in respect of acquired trade date where a purchase or sale of net of transaction costs, and the intangible assets.
a deferred tax liability an investment is under a contract settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised to the extent that the fair whose terms require delivery of the is recognised over the term of value of the assets for accounting investment within the timeframe the borrowing.
purposes exceeds the value of those established by the market concerned, assets for tax purposes and will form Equity instruments and are measured at fair value, part of the associated goodwill equity instruments issued by the Group including transaction costs.
are recorded at the proceeds received, investments are classified as either heldnet of transaction costs.
The carrying amount of deferred tax for-trading or available-for-sale.
where assets is reviewed at each period end Derivative financial instruments and securities are held-for-trading purposes, date and reduced to the extent that it is hedge accounting gains and losses arising from changes in no longer probable that sufficient The Groups activities expose it to the fair value are included in net profit or taxable profits will be available to allow financial risks of changes in foreign loss for the period.
For available-for-sale all or part of the asset to be recovered.
exchange rates and interest rates.
investments, gains and losses arising Deferred tax is calculated at the tax from changes in fair value are The use of financial instruments is rates that are expected to apply in the recognised directly in equity, until the governed by the Groups policies, period when the liability is settled or the security is disposed of or is determined which are set out on pages 32 and 33 of asset realised, based on tax rates that to be impaired, at which time the the Financial and Treasury review and have been enacted or substantively cumulative gain or loss previously approved by the Finance committee of enacted by the period end date, and is recognised in equity is included in the the Board of Directors, which provides not discounted.
net profit or loss for the period.
written principles on the use of financial instruments consistent with the Groups Deferred tax assets and liabilities are The fair value of listed securities is risk management strategy.
The Group offset when there is a legally determined based on quoted market does not use derivative financial enforceable right to set off current tax prices, and of unlisted securities on instruments for speculative purposes.
assets against current tax liabilities and managements estimate of fair value when they relate to income taxes levied determined by discounting future cash Derivative financial instruments are by the same taxation authority and the flows to net present value using market measured at fair value at the date the Group intends to settle its current assets interest rates prevailing at the derivatives are entered into and are and liabilities on a net basis.
subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value is Tax is charged or credited to the Financial liabilities and determined by using market data and consolidated income statement, equity instruments the use of established estimation except when it relates to items charged Trade payables techniques such as discounted cash or credited directly to equity, in which Trade payables are not interest bearing flow and option valuation models.
case the tax is also recognised directly and are stated at their nominal value.
The Group designates certain in equity.
Financial liabilities and equity derivatives as: Financial instruments instruments issued by the Group are i hedges of the change of fair value Financial assets and financial liabilities classified according to the substance of of recognised assets and liabilities are recognised on the statement of the contractual arrangements entered fair value hedges : or consolidated Financial position when into and the definitions of a financial the Group becomes a party to the liability and an equity instrument.
an ii hedges of highly probable forecast contractual provisions of the instrument.
equity instrument is any contract that transactions cash flow hedges : or evidences a residual interest in the Financial assets and liabilities are offset iii hedges of net investment in foreign assets of the Group after deducting all and the net amount reported in the operations net investment hedges of its liabilities.
The accounting policies consolidated statement of Financial adopted for specific financial liabilities position when there is a legally and equity instruments are set enforceable right to settle on a net as follows: basis, or realise the asset and liability 78 chairMans sTaTeMenT DirecTors reporT Financial sTaTeMenTs Business review corporaTe Governance shareholDer inForMaTion corporaTe responsiBiliTy reMuneraTion reporT 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued To qualify for hedge accounting, each hedge accounting is discontinued Derivatives embedded in other individual hedging relationship must be when the hedging instrument expires or financial instruments or other host expected to be effective, be is sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, contracts are treated as separate designated and documented at its or no longer qualifies for hedge derivatives when their risks and inception and throughout the life of the accounting.
at that time, any characteristics are not closely related to hedge relationship.
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging those of the host contracts and the host instrument recognised in equity is contracts are not carried at fair value, Fair value hedges retained in equity until the forecast with gains and losses reported in the The Groups policy is to use derivative transaction occurs.
if a hedged consolidated income statement.
financial instruments primarily interest transaction is no longer expected to rate swaps to convert a proportion of provisions occur, the net cumulative gain or loss its fixed-rate debt to floating rates in provisions are recognised when the previously recognised in equity is order to hedge the interest rate risk.
Group has a present obligation, legal or included in the consolidated income constructive, as a result of a past event, changes in the fair value of derivatives statement for the period.
and it is probable that the Group will be that are designated and qualify as fair net investment hedges required to settle that obligation.
value hedges are recorded in the The Group seeks to manage the foreign provisions are measured at the consolidated income statement, currency exposure arising on Directors best estimate of the together with changes in the fair value retranslation of the reporting entitys expenditure required to settle the of the hedged asset or liability that are share of net assets of foreign operations obligation at the period end date, and attributable to the hedged risk to the at each reporting date by designating are discounted to present value where extent that the hedge relationship is certain derivative financial instruments the effect is material.
when the hedging instrument and foreign currency borrowings as net expires or is sold, terminated, or share-based payments investment hedging instruments.
exercised, or no longer qualifies for The Group issues equity settled and hedge accounting, hedge accounting exchange differences arising from the cash-settled share-based payments to translation of the net investment in is discontinued.
equity settled shareforeign operations are recognised based payments are measured at fair cash flow hedges directly in equity in the translation value excluding the effect of nonThe Groups policy is to use certain reserve.
Gains and losses arising from market-based vesting conditions at the derivative financial instruments in order changes in the fair value of the hedging date of grant.
The fair value determined to hedge the foreign exchange risk instruments are recognised in equity to at the grant date of the equity settled arising from certain firm commitments the extent that the hedging relationship share-based payments is expensed on or forecast highly probable transactions is effective.
any ineffectiveness is a straight-line basis over the vesting in currencies other than the functional recognised immediately in the period, based on the Groups estimate currency of the relevant Group entity.
consolidated income statement for of the shares that will eventually vest changes in the fair value of derivative the period.
and adjusted for the effect of nonfinancial instruments that are market-based vesting conditions.
hedge accounting is discontinued designated and effective as hedges of when the hedging instrument expires or Fair value is measured using a binomial future cash flows are recognised is sold, terminated or exercised, or no pricing model which is calibrated using directly in equity and the ineffective longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The portion is recognised immediately in the Gains and losses accumulated in the expected life used in the models consolidated income statement.
translation reserve are included in the has been adjusted, based on if a hedged firm commitment or consolidated income statement on managements best estimate, for forecast transaction results in the disposal of the foreign operation.
the effect of non-transferability, recognition of a non-financial asset or exercise restrictions and behavioural non-hedged derivatives liability, then, at the time that the asset considerations.
The Group uses forward contracts to or liability is recognised, the associated provide a gain or loss equivalent to a liability equal to the portion of the gains and losses on the derivative that income tax payable or receivable on goods or services received is had previously been recognised in foreign exchange gains or losses recognised at the current fair value equity are included in the initial incurred when intra-group balances determined at each period end date measurement of the asset or liability.
are translated to the closing rate at the for cash-settled share-based payments.
For hedges that do not result in the period end.
These contracts Tax The Group has applied the recognition of an asset or a liability, equalisation swaps are marked to requirements of iFrs 2, share-based amounts deferred in equity are market with the movement in fair value payments, to all equity instruments recognised in the consolidated income taken to income.
Tax equalisation swaps granted after 7th september, 2002 but statement in the same period in which are not capable of being designated not fully vested at 4th october, 2004, the hedged item affects the as hedging instruments under ias 39. the date of transition to iFrs.
79 Daily Mail anD General TrusT plc annual reporT 2010 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies conTinueD 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued liabilities acquired requires significant and the discount rate.
at october 3rd, critical accounting judgements estimates and assumptions, including 2010 the fair value of these acquisition and key sources of assumptions with respect to cash flows option commitments is 1.1 million 2009 estimation uncertainty and unprovided liabilities and 11.9 million 2008 37.1 million.
in addition to the judgement taken by commitments, including in respect to management in selecting and applying contingent consideration tax, are often used.
The Group the accounting policies set out above, estimates are required in respect of the recognises intangible assets acquired management has made the following amount of contingent consideration as part of a business combination at fair judgements concerning the amounts payable on acquisitions, which is values at the date of the acquisition.
recognised in the consolidated determined according to formulae The determination of these fair values is Financial statements: agreed at the time of the business based upon managements judgement combination, and normally related to Forecasting and includes assumptions on the timing the future earnings of the acquired The Group prepares medium-term and amount of future cash flows business.
The Directors review the forecasts based on Board-approved generated by the assets and the amount of contingent consideration budgets and three-year outlooks.
These selection of an appropriate discount likely to become payable at each are used to support judgements made rate.
additionally, management must period end date, the major assumption in the preparation of the Groups estimate the expected useful being the level of future profits of the financial statements, including the economic lives of intangible assets acquired business.
The Group has recognition of deferred tax assets in and charge amortisation on these outstanding contingent consideration different jurisdictions, the Groups going assets accordingly.
payable amounting to 17.8 million concern assessment and for the acquisition option commitments 2009 23.5 million 2008 37.6 million.
longer-term forecasts use long-term written put options to acquire further contingent consideration is discounted stakes in subsidiaries, associates and growth rates applicable to the relevant to its fair value in accordance with iFrs businesses.
joint ventures written at the time of 3 and ias 37.
For acquisitions completed business combinations, unless so deeply prior to october 4th, 2009, the impairment of goodwill and in the money that they represent intangible assets difference between the fair value of in-substance ownership interests, are these liabilities and the actual amounts Determining whether goodwill and considered financial instruments under intangible assets are impaired or payable is charged to the consolidated ias 32 and ias 39. put options over a income statement as notional finance whether a reversal of an impairment of non-controlling interest stake in a intangible assets should be recorded costs with remeasurement of the liability subsidiary give rise to a financial liability being recorded against goodwill.
For requires an estimation of the value in under ias 32. put options over an use of the relevant cash-generating acquisitions completed in the current associate are within the scope of ias 39 period, movements in the fair value of units.
The value in use calculation and are accounted for as derivatives at requires management to estimate the these liabilities are recorded in the fair value through profit and loss.
where consolidated income statement future cash flows expected to arise from put options over associates have a fair the cash-generating unit and compare in Financing.
value of nil, no accounting is required.
the net present value of these cash adjusted profits and exceptional items written put options are classified within flows using a suitable discount rate to The Group presents adjusted earnings current liabilities if exercisable within determine if any impairment has by making adjustments for costs and one year.
a key area of judgement is profits which management believes to The Group is party to a number of put deciding the long-term growth rate of be exceptional in nature by virtue of the applicable businesses and the and call options over the remaining their size or incidence or have a non-controlling interests in some of its discount rate applied to those cash distortive effect on current year flows note 18.
The carrying amount of subsidiaries.
ias 39 requires the fair earnings.
such items would include value of these acquisition option goodwill and intangible assets at the costs associated with business period end date was 1,113.7 million commitments to be recognised as a combinations, one-off gains and losses liability on the consolidated statement 2009 1,195.1 million 2008 1,503.5 on disposal of businesses, properties million after a net impairment reversal of Financial position with a and similar items of a non-recurring corresponding decrease in reserves.
of 19.9 million 2009 charge 346.6 nature, together with reorganisation million 2008 charge 167.8 million was subsequent changes in the fair value of costs and similar charges, tax and by the liability are reflected in the recognised during the year notes 18 adding back impairment of goodwill and 19. consolidated income statement.
on and amortisation and impairment of exercise and settlement of the put intangible assets.
see note 13 for a acquisitions and intangible assets option liability, cumulative amounts are reconciliation of profit before tax to The Groups accounting policy on the removed from retained earnings along adjusted profit.
From october 4th, 2010 acquisition of subsidiaries is to allocate with the derecognition of the nonthe Group will cease to add back to its purchase consideration to the fair value controlling interest and recognition of adjusted results the amortisation of identifiable assets, liabilities and additional goodwill.
Key areas of charged on internally generated and contingent liabilities acquired with any judgement in calculating the fair value acquired computer software unless it excess consideration representing of the options are the expected future was recognised as part of the goodwill.
Determining the fair value of cash flows and earnings of the business accounting for a business combination.
assets, liabilities and contingent 80 chairMans sTaTeMenT DirecTors reporT Financial sTaTeMenTs Business review corporaTe Governance shareholDer inForMaTion corporaTe responsiBiliTy reMuneraTion reporT 2 siGniFicanT accounTinG policies continued share-based payments actuarial valuations and, hence, the amount of retirement benefit expense The Group makes share-based payments to certain employees.
These recognised in the consolidated income statement and the amounts of actuarial payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of gains and losses recognised in the statement of changes in equity.
The grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value carrying amount of the retirement benefit obligation at october 3rd, 2010 determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over was a deficit of 271.4 million 2009 430.4 million 2008 41.2 million.
Further the vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares that details are given in note 33. will eventually vest.
The key assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the options are the discount rate, the Groups share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rate of return, and expected option lives.
Management regularly performs a true-up of the estimate of the number of shares that are expected to vest, this is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
see note 40 for further details.
Taxation Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure that makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of legal processes.
such issues can take several years to resolve.
The Group takes a conservative view of unresolved issues, however, the inherent uncertainty regarding these items means that the eventual resolution could differ significantly from the accounting estimates and, therefore, impact the Groups results and future cash flows.
as described above, the Group makes estimates regarding the recoverability of tax assets relating to losses based on forecasts of future taxable profits which are, by their nature, uncertain.
retirement benefit obligations The cost of defined benefit pension plans is determined using actuarial valuations prepared by the Groups actuaries.
This involves making certain assumptions concerning discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
The assumptions and the resulting estimates are reviewed annually and, when appropriate, changes are made which affect the 81
