SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance Report on Directors remuneration and related matters The Board presents its report on Directors remuneration and related l To monitor the remuneration of senior executives below Board matters in compliance with the Directors remuneration report level so that the Committee can be sensitive to the wider picture regulations.
The report includes the following sections: across the Company especially when determining annual salary increases for Executive Directors.
1 Role and membership of the Remuneration Committee.
l To establish incentive schemes for Executive Directors, 2 Terms of reference.
set performance criteria for these schemes and monitor 3 Key activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year theirperformance.
4 Remuneration policy and description of Kesa pay elements.
Remuneration decisions are made on the advice of or proposals 6 Summary of key elements of remuneration for Executive Directors prepared by the Remuneration Committee and the Company.
The 7 Performance graph illustrating Kesas performance against the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Company Secretary are FTSE350 General Retailers Index invited to attend meetings of the Committee as and when appropriate.
In addition, in making its decisions, the Committee has had access 9 Share and long-term incentive plan awards.
to the relevant external advisers appointed by the Remuneration 10 Retirement benefits.
The committee has sought advice in the 11 Directors service contracts.
past 12 months from Kepler Associates in connection with proposed 12 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
changes to the Companys incentive arrangements due to expire this 13 The Combined Code.
The proposal will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM 14 Shareholding guideline.
and a further description of the proposal can be found in the Notice of 15 Directors interests.
In the past 12 months Kepler Associates have also provided advice to the Committee in connection with the benchmarking of The report is based on the year ended 30 April 2010.
Kepler Associates provide no other service figures used in this report are extracted from the 2008 09 Annual report to theCompany.
for the 12-month period from 1 May 2008 to 30 April 2009.
3 Key activities of the remuneration committee: 1 role and membership of the remuneration committee During the year, the Remuneration Committee conducted three reviews: The Remuneration Committee decides both the structure and level of executive Directors pay and the remuneration of the Chairman.
l The annual review of Executive Directors base salaries.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved for l A review of bonus arrangements for 2009 10 for operating the Chairman and the Executive Directors and no Director is involved companymanagement.
in setting their own remuneration.
l A review of the total reward framework for Executive Directors and senior management which led to the proposal to simplify and The following independent Non-Executive Directors were members replace the DAB and PSP with a new single incentive arrangement, of the Committee during 2009 10 and continue to be members.
the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Period 4 remuneration policy and description of Kesa payelements Member From To The five core principles on which the remuneration structure has been Peter Wilson Chairman 13.06.2003 To date based are as follows: Michel Brossard 13.06.2003 To date Bernard Dufau 19.12.2003 To date 1 Base pay levels take account of mid-market practice amongst UK Michel Leonard 08.02.2010 To date and European companies of comparable size.
Andrew Robb 13.06.2003 To date 2 Benefits including pensions are provided on a basis that is competitive in the local market in which the employee is employed.
3 Performance-related incentives provide the opportunity to deliver 2 terms of reference substantial rewards for high performance.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on 4 Incentives are designed to align with shareholders interests.
This is the Companys website www.
com, with the key reflected in the choice of performance standards targeted at upper responsibilities summarised as follows: quartile levels to produce a highly  package if our growth objectives are attained.
l To make recommendations to the Board on the Companys 5 Employee share ownership is encouraged by offering employees framework of executive remuneration and its cost, its aim being the opportunity to purchase shares via tax effective vehicles, to demonstrate that executive remuneration is set objectively and by creating a Long Term Incentive Plan, which is available and that Executive Directors are fairly rewarded.
l To determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors, together with conditions of employment including pension rights, contracts of employment and any compensation package in the event of the early termination of a contract.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 31
