SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Shareholder information Registrar and transfer office In order to receive shareholder communications such as notices of All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to the shareholder meetings and annual report and accounts electronically Companys Registrar, as follows: rather than by post, you should register your details via the Investor Centre information and services page of Kesa Electricals plc website Computershare Investor Services PLC www.
You can also register for electronic The Pavilions communications via www.
Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ share dealing service We are offering an internet and telephone share dealing service for 44 0 870 707 1102 shareholders in certain jurisdictions in conjunction with Computershare, our Registrars.
co. uk contactus Internet share dealing: Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Kesa Electricals plc.
l The fee for this service will be 0.5 per cent of the value of each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 15.
Stamp duty investor centre of 0.5 per cent is also payable on all purchases.
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website l Limit orders are available for sales only.
This service allows you to view your share l There is no need to open a trading account in order to deal.
portfolio and see the latest market prices of your shares, check your Real time trading is available during market hours 8.00am to dividend payment and tax information, change your address, update 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding Bank holidays.
In addition payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications there is a convenient facility to place a sale instruction outside online.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at of market hours.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Reference l If you would like to use this service log on to Number and Company Code.
The information can be found on www.
your last dividend voucher or share certificate.
Telephone share dealing: dividend mandates l The fee for this service will be 1 per cent of the value of the If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank account through transaction subject to a minimum of 25.
Stamp duty of the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system, you 0.5percent is also payable on all purchases.
should contact our Registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form or apply l The service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday online at www.
l If you would like to use this service please call 0870 703 0084. electronic shareholder communications Please have your shareholder reference number SRN to hand We have entered into an arrangement with our Registrars whereby when making the call.
shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder communications from the Company electronically, rather than in paper format via the Gifting shares to your family or to charity postal system.
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Registrars for a Gift Transfer Form.
If you only have a small We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our electronic number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, communications service through eTree campaign run by our Registrars you may wish to consider donating them to ShareGift, the share in conjunction with The Woodland Trust.
For each person that registers donation charity registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant to receive their communications by email, we will make a donation share transfer form may be obtained from the Registrars.
Further to the Woodland Trusts Tree for All Campaign a national campaign information about the scheme is available from the ShareGift combining the planting of 12 million trees with the education of our Internet Site www.
children to understand the importance of working in harmony with the environment now and in the future.
The service enables you to save paper, contributing to a greener countryside and reducing harmful carbon dioxide emissions which impact climate change.
108 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 Designed and produced by 85FOUR Principal photography by Michael Heffernan Supporting photography by Bob Wheeler Printed at Cousin, ISO14001, FSC certified and is a carbon neutral company.
This has been printed on Revive 75 Silk paper.
The paper has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC and awarded NAPM Recycled Mark.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2009 10 Kesa Electricals plc Registered address 22 24 Ely Place London EC1N 6TE 44 0 20 7269 1400 Registered in England Company number: 04232413 For information visit www.
