SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal entities included in the financial statements are shown in note 38.
The financial information set out on pages 42 to 99 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2010 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and retirement benefits.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
All significant consolidated companies have a 30 April accounting year end.
consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Associates and joint ventures Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are all operations over which the Group exercises joint control with partners.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, its share of post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 47 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups undertakings are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the undertaking operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the parents functional currency and the Groups presentation currency.
b Transaction and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available for sale are included in the available for sale reserve in equity.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates: and iii Resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are taken to shareholders funds.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
When a foreign operation is sold exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Use of adjusted measures Kesa Electricals plc believes that retail profit and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders.
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, valuation gains and losses on options to acquire minority interests, amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets and exceptional restructuring costs.
These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term retail profit is not defined by IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
exceptional items The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items which by their nature or size would distort the comparability of the Groups result from year to year.
Restatement of comparative figures An adjustment of 0.9m has been made to opening equity to reflect the retrospective impact of the amendment to IAS 38 Intangible assets: Recognition of an expense.
The amendment requires an entity to expense expenditure on point of sale material and related marketing costs, which had previously been recognised as a prepayment in the balance sheet.
48 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes 1 accounting policies continued segmental information The Group has a single business segment: the retailing of electrical products and related services.
The geographical segments in which the Groups primary segments for reporting purposes operate are as follows: l Darty France l Comet l Other established businesses BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart l Developing businesses Menaje del Hogar, Darty Italy, Darty Turkey and Darty Switzerland The implementation of IFRS 8 has resulted in a change to the basis of segmentation from the last Annual report.
The Other segment has been split between Other established businesses and Developing businesses in line with the internal reporting framework.
Management believes the aggregation within the Other established businesses and Developing businesses segments is appropriate as it is consistent with the core principle of IFRS 8 and the businesses comprising these segments have similar economic characteristics.
In addition, the Other established businesses segment operates under a single management structure.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, trade and other receivables, inventories, prepayments and accrued income.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, accruals, deferred income and post employment benefit obligations.
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related assets, accrued expenses and provisions.
Unallocated assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying value of Investments in associates and is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents a separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for managing the cash flow of that unit.
b Other intangible assets i Brands, trademarks and licences Trademarks and licences are shown at historic cost.
Trademarks and licences have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of trademarks and licences over their estimated useful lives 15-20 years.
ii Software Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, where it is probable that they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Other costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
iii Leasehold rights Intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life consist of payments made in advance in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises.
These are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
An indefinite useful life is deemed appropriate for these assets as their value does not diminish systematically over time and they can normally be re-sold.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 49 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment tangible fixed assets Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate.
Only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow to the Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the assets useful life exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed 1,000 or equivalent are these costs included in the carrying amount.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives, and the depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows: Freehold Buildings 20 years Long Leasehold 20 years or remaining lease term if shorter Short Leasehold over the remaining period of the lease Tenants fixtures and improvements between five and 20 years Computers and electronic equipment between two and four years Motor cars and commercial vehicles between two and five years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Estimated recoverable amounts are reviewed at least annually.
When properties are sold the difference between the sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the income statement.
impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill and leasehold rights, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or that the assets use may not generate an economic benefit greater than their carrying value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows as cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: These include financial assets that are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair basis in accordance with the Companys investment and risk strategy.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in finance costs income in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
50 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes 1 accounting policies continued b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
c Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: A financial liability is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges, and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Liabilities in this category are classified as current liabilities.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: These include financial liabilities that are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair basis in accordance with the Companys investment and risk strategy.
derivative financial instruments All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading a sub-category of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as cash flow hedges.
As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement.
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a periodic basis.
Should these derivatives fail the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated accordingly.
To the extent that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is settled.
To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance in value is charged directly to the income statement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives and available for sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 51 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies continued The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The value of inventory includes the purchase price and transport costs to warehouses and retail stores including trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies.
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases of products.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Cost of product sales represents the value of stock sold when recognised in revenue.
trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against selling and marketing costs in the income statement.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists.
Other bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
share capital The Group only has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Reserves The Demerger reserve represents a reserve created on demerger and is non-distributable.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations on consolidation are included within the Translationreserve.
The Available for sale investments reserve includes movements, net of deferred income tax, in the fair value of available for sale investments.
On disposal of the investment, the amount taken through the reserve is recycled out through the income statement.
The movement in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of deferred income tax, which are deemed to be effective is taken through the Hedging reserve.
On expiry of the cash flow hedge, the amount in the Hedging reserve is recycled through the income statement.
If a hedge is deemed ineffective, the amount in the Hedging reserve is immediately recycled out through the income statement.
Amounts included within the Other reserve represent the movement in respect of put and call options entered into or exercised during the period.
52 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes 1 accounting policies continued Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
current and deferred income tax Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and adjustments to income tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Recognition of deferred income tax assets takes into account IAS12 recognition criteria using the Groups judgement on the probability of future taxable profits being available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
employee benefits a Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes, which are supplemental to contributions paid to mandatory state funded schemes.
Company sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For defined benefits pension plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs which have not yet vested.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately outside the income statement in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vestingperiod.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 53 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies continued b Share based compensation The Group operates equity settled, share based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
c Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
Restructuring provisions, comprising lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions for WEEE fees incurred across the Group are recognised in compliance with each of the local territories adopted legislation in response to the Directive.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities as described below.
The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been resolved.
The Group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement.
Revenues from the provision of sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, which ever is the later.
Retail sales are usually settled in cash or by credit or payment card.
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of such returns at the time of sale.
Revenues from services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
The Group sells extended warranty contracts.
Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under these contracts, the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period of manufacturers warranty.
Where the Group sells an extended warranty contract and a third party insurance company has responsibility for contractual obligations, commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale.
Where part of the obligation under these contracts is re-insured by the Group, the revenue relating to the re-insurance is recognised over the period for which re-insurance is provided, excluding any period of manufacturers warranty.
Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements, and is included within other income.
54 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes 1 accounting policies continued Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group or any of its subsidiaries are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease payments.
Assets capitalised as property, plant and equipment are amortised in accordance with Group depreciation policy.
Payments under such leases are charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the income statement over the full period of the finance lease on a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any financial incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout the life of the lease.
dividends Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
contingent assets and liabilities Contingent assets and liabilities arise from conditions or situations, the outcome of which depends on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where they are probable.
assets held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale, and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, if their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
events occurring after the balance sheet date The values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are adjusted if there is evidence that subsequent adjusting events warrant a modification of these values.
These adjustments are made up to the date of approval of the accounts by the Board of Directors.
Other non-adjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where they are probable.
effect of new standards, amendments and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards effective in 2009 2010 IAS 38 Amendment Intangible assets: Recognition of an expense.
This amendment requires an entity to expense expenditure on point of sale material and related marketing costs, which had previously been recognised as a prepayment in the balance sheet.
An adjustment of 0.9m has been made to opening equity to reflect the retrospective impact of this amendment: IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset and how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
The Group has applied IFRIC 14 from 1 May 2009: however, it is of minimal impact.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisitions, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset, removing the option to immediately expense those borrowing costs.
The Group has applied this amendment to IAS 23 from 1 May 2009: however, as these costs are not significant to the Group, the impact is minimal.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment requires puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components of instruments, that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rate share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation, to be classified as equity.
The Group has applied this amendment to IAS 32 from 1May 2009 and it is of minimal impact.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 55 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies continued IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard will prohibit the presentation of items of income and expenses in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
The Group has applied this revision to IAS 1 from 1 May 2009, however it is of minimal impact.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The Group has applied IFRS 8 from 1 May 2009, with the additional disclosure of Other established businesses and Developing businesses segments in place of the previously disclosed Other segment.
IFRS 2 Amendment Share based payments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only and that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The Group has applied this amendment to IFRS 2 from 1 May 2009, however it is of minimal impact.
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes relating to IAS 18, Revenue effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
The Group has applied IFRIC 13 from 1 May 2009, however it will be of minimal impact.
IFRS 1 Amendment First time adoption of IFRS, and IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, on the Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate effective 1 January 2009.
This amendment does not contain technical changes, it only improves structure.
The Group has applied this amendment to IFRS 1 from 1 May 2009 and it is of minimal impact.
IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 1 January 2009.
The amendment increases the disclosure requirements about fair value measurement and reinforces existing principles for disclosure about liquidity risk.
The Group has applied IFRS 7 from 1 May 2009 and it has resulted in minor additional disclosures.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards effective but not relevant IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement effective 1 July 2008.
The amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 clarify that on reclassification of a financial asset out of the at fair value through profit and loss category all embedded derivatives should be re-assessed and, if necessary, separately accounted for.
The amendment is not relevant to the Group.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for construction of real estates effective 1 January 2009, but EU endorsed for use 1 January 2010.
The interpretation clarifies which standard should be applied to particular transactions and is likely to mean that IAS 18 will be applied to a wider range of transactions.
The interpretation is not relevant to the Group.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1 October 2008, but EU endorsed for use 1 July 2009.
The interpretation clarifies that net investment hedging relates to differences in functional currency, hedging instruments can be held anywhere in the Group and that the requirements of IAS 21 do apply to the hedged item.
c New standards and interpretations that are not yet effective IFRS 1 Revised First time adoption effective 1 July 2009.
The revision does not contain any technical changes, as it only improves the structure.
The Group will apply this revision from 1 May 2010 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IFRS 1 Amendment First time adoption effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment exempts entities with existing lease contracts from reassessing the classification of those contracts in accordance with IFRIC 4.
The Group will apply this amendment from 1 May 2010 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IFRS 1 Amendment First time adoption effective 1 July 2010.
The amendment provides first-time adopters with the same transition provisions as included in the amendment to IFRS 7 regarding comparative information for the new three-level classification disclosures.
IFRS 2 Amendment Share based payments effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment provides a clear basis to determine the classification of share based payment awards in both consolidated financial statements.
The Group will apply this amendment to IFRS 2 from 1 May 2010 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations effective for business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
The Group will apply this revision to IFRS 3 from 1 May 2010 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation effective 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
IFRS 9 New Standard Financial instruments: Classification and measurement effective 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 and contains two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
The Group will apply this amendment from 1 May 2013 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IAS 38 Amendment Intangible assets effective for periods beginning after 1 July 2010.
The amendment clarifies the circumstances in which an intangible asset should be recognised separately from goodwill and where it can be grouped with complementary intangible assets.
56 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes 1 accounting policies continued d New standards and interpretations that are not yet effective and are not expected to be relevant IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This revised standard is not expected to be relevant to the Group.
IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement on Eligible hedged items effective 1 July 2009.
The amendment makes significant changes meaning hedging strategies involving options should be re-assessed immediately.
The amendment is not expected to be relevant to the Group.
IAS 24 Amendment Related party disclosures effective 1 January 2011.
This amendment is not expected to be relevant to the Group.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners effective 1 July 2009.
The interpretation clarifies how an entity should measure distributions of assets, other than cash, when it pays dividends to its owners.
This interpretation is not expected to be relevant to the Group.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers effective 1 July 2009.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment, which is provided by the customer, is used to provide an ongoing service.
IFRIC 14 Amendment Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement effective 1 January 2011.
The amendment removes the unintended consequence of IFRIC 14 related to voluntary pension prepayments when there is a minimum funding requirement.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished through the borrower issuing its own equity instruments to the lender.
critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
i Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1.
The recoverable amounts of Cash-Generating Units CGU have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow forecasts for each CGU and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
See note 13 for details of the key assumptions used for impairment.
ii Pension benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and France.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans is shown on the balance sheet.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities are based on actuarial estimates of the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present value.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
A half a percentage point decrease in the discount rate assumption used to determine the income statement charge in the period ended 30 April 2010 would have reduced profit before taxation by 0.3m and increased the net liability by 33.5m.
Key assumptions have also been made, by independent professional actuaries, regarding price inflation and annual salary increases.
These assumptions have been used to assess the contribution rate required to fund future benefits.
A half percentage point increase in the price inflation assumptions would have reduced profit before taxation by 0.5m and would have increased the net liability by 28.1m.
A half percentage point increase in the assumption regarding annual salary increases would have reduced profit before taxation by 0.3m and would have increased the net liability by 5.5m.
The mortality assumptions used in the UK and French schemes were reassessed in 2008.
For the UK scheme, the Group has used PNA00mcyob with 1% floor for males and 0.5% for females with the probabilities adjusted by 131% for males and 126% for females.
For the French schemes, the Group has used TGH05 and TGF005 tables for pensioners and TH0305 and TF0305 tables for non-pensioners.
If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater, the charge to profit before taxation would have reduced by approximately 0.4m and the net post-employment liability before tax would have increased by approximately 7.6m.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 57 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies continued iii Taxation Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations on which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
iv Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Average cost includes transportation costs to the point of sale and is net of any supplier discounts and rebates.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and damaged stocks.
Damaged stocks are identified through inventory counting procedures conducted within each business.
Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories are made as part of their ongoing financial reporting.
Provisions reflect likely future sales and whether the item is no longer referenced by suppliers.
Calculation of provisions requires judgements to be made regarding projected consumer demand, the competitive environment and inventory losstrends.
As at 30 April 2010, the Group held allowances in respect of inventory of 20.9m 30 April 2009: 14.5m.
v Impairment of non-financial assets At each full year balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
For tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading store.
For goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
Principal rates of exchange Euro Czech Kr Average rate year ended 30 April 2010 1.1318 29.3188 Closing rate 30 April 2010 1.1484 29.4370 Average rate period ended 30 April 2009 1.1923 30.4226 Closing rate 30 April 2009 1.1184 29.9720 58 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
