SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes 2 Financial risk management treasury policy Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
The Board establishes the Groups financial policies and the Chief Executive Officer CEO establishes objectives in line with these policies.
The Treasury Committee, under the supervision of the Group Finance Director GFD, are then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and Operating Company Treasury teams.
Approved Treasury Management Guidelines define and classify risks and also determine, by category of transaction, specific approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk, settlement risk and liquidity risk.
In accordance with the aforementioned policies the Group only enters into derivative transactions related to operating and or financial assets or liabilities or anticipated future transactions.
The Group does not enter into trading derivative transactions without underlying assets or liabilities.
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products.
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group accounts into sterling.
Interest rate risk comprises the interest price risk that results from borrowing at variable and fixed rates and the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios.
Credit risk is managed by investing in liquid assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Groups Treasury Management Guidelines.
The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions.
As a result of its strong cash flow the Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loan agreements expire.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, the Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables.
Affiliated companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally.
The Treasury Committee reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Groups intragroup loans portfolio on a monthly basis.
Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
It uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive regular reports of the activities of Group treasury.
capital management The principal sources of capital to fund the Groups operations are equity, bank borrowings and operating leases on properties.
Group policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding requirements: funds are then lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
In considering the balance of sources of finance, the Group seeks to maintain financing from equity, debt and property leases relative to earnings and cash flows at levels consistent, over time, with similar companies rated investment grade by publicly recognised rating agencies.
market risk 1 Foreign exchange risk The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts business in several foreign currencies.
It is therefore subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Groups sterling transaction costs and the translation of results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net assets by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the euro.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net borrowings held in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in the income statement.
At 30 April 2010, if the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2.1m 2009: 2.0m lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses on translation of euro-denominated trade receivables, offset by foreign exchange gains on translation of euro-denominated borrowings.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 59 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 2 Financial risk management continued The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management.
Permission of Group treasury is required before a foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken.
Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
At 30 April 2010, 63 per cent 30 April 2009: 62 per cent of the Groups revenue and 93 per cent 30 April 2009: 110 per cent of the Groups retail profit were denominated in euros.
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, valuation gains and losses on options to acquire minority interests, profit on disposal of business operation, exceptional restructuring costs and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
At 30 April 2010, if the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the year would have been 97.7m 30 April 2009: 76.2m.
At 30 April 2010, if the euro had weakened by 10 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the year would have been 90.3m 30 April 2009: 69.3m.
If the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling, with all other variables held constant, equity would have been 0.1m lower 30 April 2009: unchanged.
If the euro had weakened by 10 per cent against sterling, with all other variables held constant, equity would have been 0.6m 30April 2009: 0.4m lower, arising mainly from foreign exchange losses gains on translation of euro-denominated equity securities classified as available for sale.
2 Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available for sale investments on the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
3 Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The treasury policy requires that at least 30 per cent, but no more than 70 per cent of Group borrowings must be fixed, and this will be applied when there is a need for longer term borrowings.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2010 would have been 0.1m 30 April 2009: 0.1m lower.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2010 would have been 1.1m 30 April 2009: 1.4m lower.
credit risk Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a long-term credit rating of A or better.
Group treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit ratings of those counterparties on a monthly basis.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Exposures are managed through Group treasury policy which limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Funds held to meet the financial obligations that the Group retains in respect of service contracts and extended warranties in the UK are invested in a combination of cash deposits, a diversified portfolio of floating rate investments and AAA rated money market funds.
The floating rate investments and money market funds are managed by third party fund managers and subject to regular review by Group treasury.
There are no concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to these investments is represented by their carrying value.
liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
The Group maintains committed bank facilities of sufficient maturity to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expenditure.
60 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes 2 Financial risk management continued maturity profile of financial liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years As at 30 April 2010 m m m m Finance lease liability 2.8 0.3 Trade and other payables 1,010.4 37.5 297.0 16.0 Borrowings 9.4 47.1 Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years As at 30 April 2009 m m m m Finance lease liability 3.3 1.3 Trade and other payables 952.9 53.1 272.3 30.0 Borrowings 0.8 140.9 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years As at 30 April 2010 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 38.9 Inflow 39.8 Foreign currency swap held for trading Outflow 102.5 Inflow 102.4 Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years As at 30 April 2009 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 33.1 Inflow 32.1 Foreign currency swap held for trading Outflow 93.0 Inflow 92.9 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Current asset investments are made for varying periods of up to 12 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term LIBOR or EURIBOR deposit rates.
Of the total current asset investments of 67.3m 30 April 2009: 83.5m, 10.3m 30 April 2009: 23.8m are included within other current investments and 57.0m 30 April 2009: 59.7m within cash and cash equivalents.
The Group has given certain covenants to lenders in connection with its bank loans.
The covenants of a financial nature relate mainly to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and interest.
During the year ending 30 April 2010, the Group is in compliance with its covenants.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 61 SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 2 Financial risk management continued Fair value estimation Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value, this requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: l Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1. l Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2. l Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 April 2010.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 30 April 2010 m m m m Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedges 0.9 0.9 Other investments at FVTPL 4.6 5.7 10.3 Available for sale financial assets equity securities 7.7 7.7 Total assets 12.3 6.6 18.9 Options over shares in Group undertakings at FVTPL 16.8 16.8 Total liabilities 16.8 16.8 The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms-length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in level 1.
Equity instruments included in level 1 comprise primarily the Groups holding in Go Sport S. A. sports leisurewear and equipment retailer, a company listed and registered in France which is classified as available for sale.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: l Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
l The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves.
l The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.
l Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
62 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
