SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance 11 directors service contracts The disclosures required by the Regulations in respect of Directors service contracts are as follows: Thierry Falque-Pierrotin Mr Falque-Pierrotin has an employment contract dated 5 January 2009 under French law with KESA Electricals SAS and a second contract, which is a Letter of Appointment dated 5 January 2009 from Kesa Electricals plc.
His combined base remuneration is currently 1,106,000 split equally between the contract with Kesa Electricals SAS and the UK Letter of Appointment with Kesa Electricals plc.
Both are subject to a yearly increase in line with retail price inflation.
Until 30 April 2011 his annual bonus is guaranteed at 75per cent of his base salary.
Under the UK Letter of Appointment, Mr Falque-Pierrotin participates in the UK Defined Contribution Pension Scheme to which the Company makes a contribution equivalent to the lower of 47.5per cent of salary for the relevant year, or the annual allowance as defined in section 228 of the Finance Act 2004, until he reaches the standard lifetime allowance as defined in section 218 of the Finance Act 2004.
Under the contract with Kesa Electricals SAS, he will also receive 12.5per cent of salary for the relevant year under the French statutory retirement regime.
On severance, including in the event of termination, Mr Falque-Pierrotin is entitled to a lump sum payment equal to his base salary.
Mr FalquePierrotin will be entitled to exercise all equity awards for up to six months after leaving.
In such case any provision in the various scheme rules to reduce the proportion of equity awards pro-rata for time elapsed will not be applied.
The awards will only vest to the degree that the performance conditions are achieved.
Mr Falque-Pierrotin is entitled at any time up to 12 months from a change of control, to treat any change of control as termination and be entitled to the severance noted above.
Under both the employment contract and Letter of Appointment, Mr Falque-Pierrotins employment can be terminated on not less than 12 months notice given by Kesa Electricals, Kesa Electricals SAS or Mr Falque-Pierrotin.
Simon Herrick Mr Herricks service contract dated 15 March 2005 was covered by the applicable UK Employment Law.
His basic annual salary from 1 May 2009 to the date of his leaving in December 2009 was 389,917.
Under his service contract, Mr Herricks employment could have been terminated on not less than six months notice given by either party.
Kesa Electricals plc could have required Mr Herrick to serve out his notice but agreed that this was not beneficial to either party.
Mr Herrick was not entitled to any remuneration or benefits upon termination.
Dominic Platt Dominic Platt has a service contract with Kesa Electricals plc dated 28 September 2009.
Mr Platts service contract provides for an annual basic salary currently 350,000 per annum, a guaranteed bonus of 170,000 per annum until 2011, a car allowance, pension benefits and private medical insurance.
Mr Platt is also provided with life insurance of four times earnings.
Under his service contract he is subject to post-employment restrictive covenants.
Mr Platts pension and life insurance benefits are currently provided under the Comet Pension Scheme.
Under his service contract, Mr Platts employment can be terminated on not less than 12 months notice given by Kesa Electricals or not less than six months notice from Mr Platt.
In the case of notice given by Kesa Electricals, a payment may be made in lieu of the unexpired portion of notice and Kesa Electricals can reduce the payment to take into account the receipt of a lump sum and mitigation.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 37
