SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance Report on Directors remuneration and related matters 5 Performance linkages c Pensions and other benefits Each element in the reward package is designed to support the Pensions are offered in line with local competitive practices.
achievement of important corporate objectives.
Future accrual in the UK defined benefit pension scheme ceased with In fair value terms, the proportion of total pay excluding pensions and effect from 30 September 2007, and from 1 October 2007, a defined benefits, which is variable, is equal to approximately 40 per cent.
contribution arrangement became the primary future pension arrangement for all UK-based Executive Directors.
We believe that linking incentives to profit growth helps to reinforce our growth objectives and is an appropriate measure for a predominantly Mr Falque-Pierrotin participates in the UK Defined Contribution Pension retail business.
Scheme to which the Company make a contribution equivalent to the lower of 47.5per cent of salary for the relevant year, or the annual The pay elements are further explained below: allowance as defined in section 228 of the Finance Act 2004, until he reaches the lifetime allowance as defined in section 218 of the Finance a Base salary Act 2004.
Under his contract with Kesa Electricals SA he will also To ascertain the jobs market value, external remuneration consultants receive 12.5per cent of salary for the relevant year under the French provide data about market salary levels and advise the Remuneration statutory retirement regime.
These market rates are based on peer group data and derived from the pay positioning described above.
Before Other eligible Executive Directors contribute 6.5per cent of base salary making a final decision on individual salary awards, the Committee and the Company contributes between 15per cent and 20per cent assesses each Directors contribution to the business to reflect individual ofsalary.
Following the decision to freeze senior managers base salaries in the year under review, there was no increase in the Chief Other benefits provided to Executive Directors include a car allowance, Executives base salary.
The change in salary paid reported below and private medical insurance.
relates solely to the adverse currency effect as Thierry Falque-Pierrotin, as a French citizen living in Paris, is paid in euros rather than sterling.
Further details are provided under the disclosure of the arrangements for each Director.
b Annual bonus To incentivise and reward annual performance, the Chief Executive d Share incentives is eligible for an annual incentive with a target of up to 90 per cent For the year under review the Company operate two executive of base salary of which 15 per cent is paid in deferred shares and share-based incentives: 75 per cent in cash, and a maximum of 115 per cent of base salary of which 15per cent is paid in deferred shares and 100 per cent i The Deferred Annual Bonus DAB an award of up to 15 per cent in cash for substantially exceeding targets.
of base salary based on achieving annual targets and subject to a compulsory deferral in shares for three years.
Other Executive Directors are eligible for an annual incentive with ii The Performance Share Plan PSP, which applies to a maximum a target of up to 65per cent of base salary of which 15per cent of 40 senior executives.
The base PSP award is equal to 30per cent is paid in deferred shares and 50per cent in cash, and a maximum of salary, and the Remuneration Committee determines eligibility of 75per cent of base salary of which 15per cent is paid in deferred on an annual basis.
An eligible executive may also receive up shares and 60per cent in cash for substantially exceeding targets.
to a further 20per cent of base salary based on their personal If the minimum targets are not met, there is no bonus.
performance and contribution to the Group.
The bonus for the Chief Executive and the Finance Director is Vesting of awards made under the PSP is subject to a TSR based on measures including profit after interest: cash flow and performance test over three years.
If Kesas TSR performance is at personal objectives which are closely allied to the achievement the median of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index then 25 per cent of the corporateplan.
of the Matching Shares will vest.
For 100 per cent of the Matching Shares to vest, Kesas TSR performance must be in the top quartile In the year to 30 April 2010 it was agreed that there should be an of the companies in the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index, and there additional one-off cash bonus opportunity equivalent to 10per cent is a sliding scale between this and the median.
base salary for achieving the Group Retail Profit target.
The aim of this scheme was to promote the achievement of Group targets amongst The awards made in 2005, 2006 and 2007 under the PSP lapsed the senior management team.
because the TSR performance thresholds were not achieved.
32 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
