SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance Corporate governance These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner in the b Remuneration Committee past financial year: The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson l At its meetings in June, September, December and March 2010, Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau, Michel Leonard and the focus was the review of the Annual report and financial Andrew Robb.
Its responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, statements, the half-year report and financial statements, ensuring that the remuneration and terms of service of the Executive and the interim management statements respectively.
For the Directors are appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their Annual report and financial statements, and the half-year report, individual contribution to the Companys overall performance.
It also the Committee received reports from the external auditors ensures that the allocation of shares under the Groups share schemes identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring are on a fair and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed itsattention.
The application of corporate governance l A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management principles in relation to Directors remuneration is described in the was presented at each of the four meetings, which highlighted any report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 30 significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the March meeting, and39.
the Director of Audit and Risk Management submitted the internal audit plans for the coming year.
c Nomination Committee l The external auditors presented their audit plans at the December The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands meeting, and there was a detailed review of the management letter Chairman, Thierry Falque-Pierrotin, Peter Wilson, Andrew Robb, covering the auditors findings in respect of the prior financial year Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Michel Leonard.
The Committee at the September meeting.
would be chaired by the Senior Independent Director on any matter l Group companies were, from time to time, required to concerning the Chairmanship of the Company.
make presentations to the Committee on the subject of risk, its identification, management and control.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the l As a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: information on material litigation involving Group companies.
l The Committee reviewed all financial statements prior to l To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, theirpublication.
size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make l Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Board.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to external auditors.
The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to review account.
These include: succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
l Setting policy for granting of service agreements including l The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the mitigation policy.
Board and the quality of advice given.
l The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business Share capital and control and industry.
The disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
6 are to be found on page 24 l The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the of the Directors report.
Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tightdeadlines.
relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the shareholders and does this through its Annual and interim reports and independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors at the Annual General Meeting.
Although it does not have precise rules are restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee enter into a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is from the Company.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to meet with the Companys institutional investors in the UK, Europe and US and presentations are made on the operating and financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
28 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
