SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 1 accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal entities included in the financial statements are shown in note 38.
The financial information set out on pages 42 to 99 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2010 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and retirement benefits.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
All significant consolidated companies have a 30 April accounting year end.
consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Associates and joint ventures Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are all operations over which the Group exercises joint control with partners.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, its share of post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 47
