Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information ACCOUNTING POLICIES COMPANY Basis of preparation Share based payment The Financial Statements of fide La Rue plc the Company have The Company operates various equity settled and cash settled been prepared under the historical cost convention and have been option schemes although the majority of plans are settled by the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and issue of shares.
The services received from employees are measured applicable UK accounting standards.
by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Vesting in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account Instruments: Disclosures not to prepare a financial instrument note when estimating the fair value.
FRS 20 has been applied to share as the information is available in the published consolidated Financial settled share options granted after 7 November 2002.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from the employees of its subsidiary undertakings these awards are preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 Cash accounted for by the Company, as an additional investment in its Flow Statements.
The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 The accounts have been prepared as at 27 March 2010, being the share based payments.
Any payments made by the subsidiary last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2009 financial year undertaking in respect of these arrangements are treated as are for the year ended 28 March 2009. a return of this investment.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently Share based payments recharged to subsidiaries are recorded in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to via the intercompany loan account.
Dividends Foreign currencies Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are of the Company are recognised in the period that they are approved denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends are recognised in the the appropriate year end rates of exchange.
Exchange gains and period that they are paid.
losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included within Taxation the interest section of the profit and loss account except for The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans that takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences are taken to reserves.
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional accounting purposes.
currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such exchange balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial guarantee contracts Other receivables Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to Other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and the time value of money is considered material.
accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats Investments the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the balance sheet, it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the a payment under the guarantee.
Retirement benefits The pension rights of the Company employees are dealt with through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Groups finances.
The scheme is a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS 17, fide La Rue plc accounts for its contributions as though it were a defined contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme cover the Company and a number of its subsidiaries and those assets and liabilities cannot be split between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Full details of the scheme and its deficit measured on an IAS 19 basis can be found in note 25 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 91
