ACCOUNTING POLICIES GROUP fide La Rue plc the Company is a public limited company Basis of preparation incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under of its registered office is disclosed on page 96 of this Annual Report.
the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items The consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting ended 27 March 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries policies below.
The accounts have been prepared as at 27 March together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in 2010, being the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the associates.
The Parent Company Financial Statements present 2009 financial year are for the year ended 28 March 2009. information about the Company as a separate entity and not about As described on page 40 of the Directors Report, the consolidated its Group.
The principal activities of the Group are described in Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These Basis of consolidation policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, The consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial unless otherwise stated.
Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries up to 27 March 2010.
Control exists when the Statement of compliance Company has the power to govern the financial and operating European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In that the consolidated Financial Statements, for the year ended assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable 27 March 2010, be prepared in accordance with International are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated Financial Adopted IFRSs.
These consolidated Financial Statements have Statements from the date that control commences or until the date been approved by the Directors and prepared in accordance with that control ceases.
The majority of the subsidiaries prepare their Adopted IFRS including interpretations issued by the International financial statements up to 27 March except for certain subsidiaries Accounting Standards Board IASB.
whose year end is 31 December.
In the case of the subsidiaries The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial whose financial statements are made up to 31 December 2009, Statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting results for the period to 27 March 2010 have been consolidated.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
standards, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the are applicable to the Group for the first time in the current year and identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any have been adopted by the Group with no impact on the Groups deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the accounting policies or on its results or net assets included within identifiable net assets acquired ie discount on acquisition is these consolidated Financial Statements: credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendments require of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with a number of changes to the presentation of financial statements.
These include a requirement to present, in a statement of changes in equity, all owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are equity ie comprehensive income are required to be presented eliminated on consolidation.
in one statement of comprehensive income or in two statements Significant accounting policies and judgements applied a separate income statement and a statement of comprehensive Foreign currency income.
As a result, the Group has elected to present a Foreign currency transactions consolidated income statement, a consolidated statement of These Financial Statements are presented in sterling, which comprehensive income and a consolidated statement of changes is the functional and presentational currency of the Company.
The functional currency of Group entities is principally determined IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments expand by the primary economic environment in which the respective the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements and entity operates.
The Group has elected, on a voluntary basis, to Transactions in foreign currencies entered into by Group entities are provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures translated into the functional currencies of those entities at the rates in the current year in order to aid comparability between periods.
of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires segment disclosures based liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet on the components that the Chief Operating Decision Maker date are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
ie the Board monitors in making decisions about operating Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised matters.
Such components are identified on the basis of internal in the income statement.
reports that the Board reviews regularly in allocating resources Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in terms of to segments and in assessing performance.
This results in a historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date of segmental analysis which is similar to that presented previously the transaction.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are under IAS 14 Segmental Reporting as the Group had previously recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non-monetary given additional voluntary disclosures of segmental information.
item itself is recognised in the income statement or in equity.
However, the comparatives have been restated for the effects of the different disclosure requirements of current and deferred tax In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, assets and liabilities.
the Group enters into forward contracts refer to the accounting policy on derivative financial instruments below for details of IAS 23 Borrowing Costs amendments have removed the the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing financial instruments.
costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The revised standard requires such borrowing costs to be capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
This does not change the Groups current accounting policy on borrowing costs.
60 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Financial statements of foreign operations Fair value hedges Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to average exchange rates which approximate to actual rates.
the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in net income.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the Gains or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or for nonGroups translation reserve, which is a component of equity.
When derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying value, a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were recorded are recognised in net income.
in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain Embedded derivatives or loss on sale.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other Exchange differences in respect of foreign operations that arose non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives before 27 March 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those are presented as part of retained earnings, as permitted by IFRS 1. of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives Net investment in foreign operations are reported in the income statement.
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign Hedge of net investment in foreign operations operations are recognised in the translation reserve to the extent the Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment in hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised in equity.
differences are recognised as finance income or costs in the income Ineffective hedges or portions thereon are recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative gains or losses in equity arising since the statement.
date of transition to Adopted IFRSs are taken to the income Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised Financial instruments immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The Groups operating activities expose it to financial risks of Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
operating activities are included in operating profit when recognised The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, including forward in the consolidated income statement.
contracts and swaps to hedge its risk to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments Revenue recognition are only used for hedging purposes.
The use of financial derivatives Group revenue predominantly represents sales to external is governed by the Groups risk management policies approved by customers of manufactured products which fall within the Groups the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management Revenue is recognised in the income statement to the extent strategy.
that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The gain goods are supplied to external customers in accordance with the or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in the terms of sale.
income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
on the nature of the item being hedged.
Revenues and costs on project based contracts are recognised by Cash flow hedges reference to the stage of completion, based on the work performed Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that to date and the overall contract profitability.
The assessment of the are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised and is assessed by reference to reviews of work performed, immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in achievement of contractual milestones and costs incurred.
equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement.
However, if the Revenue on service-based contracts is recognised as services hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or are provided.
liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on the hedging Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the instrument are transferred from equity and included in the initial principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity Intangible assets until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Goodwill in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Changes in the fair is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge impairment losses.
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 61 ACCOUNTING POLICIES GROUP continued Goodwill On revaluation, any accumulated depreciation at the date of Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the of acquisition of a business combination over the Groups share of asset, and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities the asset.
of the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of land After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any and buildings are credited to other reserves in shareholders equity.
At the date of acquisition the Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset are goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of charged against other reserves directly in equity: all other decreases impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and when are charged to the income statement.
there are indications of impairment.
Any impairment loss is Borrowing costs recognised immediately in the income statement and is not Borrowing costs are capitalised if an asset under construction subsequently reversed.
is significant and the construction period is longer than one year.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying The capitalisation rate is based on the short term borrowing rate amount of goodwill relating to the business.
Goodwill arising on over the period of construction.
the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill Impairment arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in investments Financial assets in associates.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine an asset.
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 the date asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
future cash flows of that asset.
Development costs An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at Expenditure incurred in the development of products or amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying enhancements to existing product ranges is capitalised as an amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows intangible asset only when the future economic benefits expected to discounted at the original effective interest rate.
arise are deemed probable and the costs can be reliably measured.
Individually significant assets are tested for impairment on an Development costs not meeting these criteria are expensed in the individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed income statement as incurred.
Capitalised development costs are collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
economic lives once the product or enhancement is available for use.
Product research costs are written off as incurred.
Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other Other intangible assets than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised impairment.
If any such indication exists then the assets recoverable at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
For goodwill and intangible assets that have Software intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for use, the shorter of their useful economic life or their licence period at rates recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
which vary from between three and five years.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less accumulated whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value amortisation and impairment losses and are amortised over their may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is tested at least useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products annually for impairment.
Impairment tests are performed for all Cash to which they relate.
Generating Units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated at the Property, plant and equipment balance sheet date or whenever there is indication of impairment.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, For all other intangible assets, an impairment test is performed less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated provision whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
Assets in the course of construction An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date.
exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of the No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold and long assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use and in the case leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated useful of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
In assessing value in use, economic lives of 50 years.
Other leasehold interests are the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market and 50 years.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other not been adjusted.
plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent per For other intangible assets, at each balance sheet date an annum.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are 10 per assessment is made to determine whether there is any indication cent on plant and machinery and on fixtures and fittings.
No that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
Where such an indication exists, an impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the assets carrying Depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are reviewed value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been at least at each financial year end, taking into account commercial determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment and technical obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, loss had been recognised.
provision being made where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
62 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Associated companies Taxation An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to The tax expense included in the income statement comprises exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the on the taxable income for the year, including adjustments in respect investee.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the of prior periods, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power by the balance sheet date.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of associated it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is companies are included in these Financial Statements using the recognised in equity.
equity method of accounting, except when classified as held for Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, sale.
The results are presented after interest, tax and minority providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts interest.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the at cost as adjusted by the post acquisition changes in the Groups amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured share of net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted value of the individual investment.
Losses of the associate in by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not recognised the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition of the associate against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Such assets is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial ie discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement recognition other than in a business combination of other assets in the period of acquisition.
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, nor the accounting profit.
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on in the associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the made for impairment.
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference The majority of the material associated companies prepare their will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
financial information to 27 March except for certain associated The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each companies whose year end is 31 December.
In the case of the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer associated companies whose Financial Statements are made probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow up to 31 December, results for the period to 27 March have all or part of the asset to be recovered.
been included in the consolidated income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the Leasing extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the to the lessee the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current of time in return for a payment or a series of payments.
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the settle a liability simultaneously.
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Inventories to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as property, net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted average cost plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value of the basis and comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease costs, including direct labour and an allocation of production payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated overheads based on normal operating capacity that have been over their useful economic lives.
Lease payments are apportioned incurred in bringing those inventories to their present location and between repayment of capital and interest.
The capital element of condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less future lease payments is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a Cash and cash equivalents constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Benefits three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating and form part of the Groups cash management are included as a lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such that the rental income is less than the head-lease rental cost, provision is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall of sub-lease income compared with the head-lease expense.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 63 ACCOUNTING POLICIES GROUP continued Loans Share option schemes Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value The fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust is a separately less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, administered trust.
Liabilities of the trust are guaranteed by the interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any Company and the assets of the trust mainly comprise shares difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Company.
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on The own shares held by the trust are shown as a reduction in an effective interest basis.
The shares will be held at historical rates until Employment benefits such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the disposal Pensions of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves rather than as The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
The a profit and loss item.
major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets held Provisions separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benefits under Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial in respect of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources valuation method.
will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount can The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors curtailments are included in operating costs in the group income best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the the balance sheet date and are discounted where the time value benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight of money is considered material.
line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets Exceptional items of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the imputed interest Items which are both material by size and or by nature and nonon pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement benefit recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant obligation finance income and retirement benefit obligation finance consolidated income statement category.
The separate reporting expense respectively in the income statement.
of exceptional items charged to operating profit helps to provide an Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses other than comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise.
those within the scope of IFRS 5, restructuring of businesses and asset impairments.
The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value Dividends of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations carried Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at out at the balance sheet date.
the year end are not recognised in the Financial Statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they to the income statement in the period to which the contributions are paid.
Non-current assets held for sale Share based payments Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option the lower of the assets previous carrying amount and fair value schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged on assets classified from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the as held for sale.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight line met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available basis over the vesting period, based on the numbers of shares that for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be are actually expected to vest, taking into account non market committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for vesting conditions including service conditions.
Vesting conditions, recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date other than market based conditions, are not taken into account of classification.
when estimating the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options outstanding and recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
IFRS 2 Share-based payment has been applied to equity settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 not yet vested at 1 January 2005 and to outstanding cash settled share options as at 1 January 2005.
64 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information New accounting standards and interpretations c Income taxes The following Adopted IFRSs were available for early adoption but The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions have not been applied by the Group in these Financial Statements: and significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for those taxes.
Calculation of the current tax position IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective for involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose the first time in 2010 2011.
This interpretation sets out general tax treatment is uncertain and which will be resolved at some future principles on recognising and measuring the obligations and date.
Management makes judgements as to the likely impact and related rights in service concession arrangements.
Adopting IFRIC outcome of uncertain or disputed tax treatments.
Deferred tax 12 is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
generally recognises the future reversal of all temporary timing An amended IFRS 3 Business Combinations, an amended differences, but management exercises judgement in respect of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, an deferred tax assets as to their likely recoverability against future amended IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Interests taxable profits.
As this judgement involves assessment of the future in Joint Ventures are effective for business combinations trading prospects of individual statutory entities, the actual outcome undertaken by the Group after 28 March 2010.
The revised IFRS 3 may vary from that anticipated.
Where the final tax outcomes differ will make many changes to how future business combinations will from the amounts initially recorded, there will be impacts upon be accounted for, including accounting for acquisition costs, income tax and deferred tax provisions and the income statement contingent consideration, step acquisitions, partial disposals of an in the period in which such determination is made.
investment in a subsidiary and partial disposals of associates and d Provisions for other liabilities and charges joint ventures.
As the revised standard is to be applied The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate prospectively it is not possible to quantify its likely impact.
of the amount required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet No impact is expected from any other standards that are available date, discounted where the time value of money is considered for early adoption but that have not been early adopted.
These estimates take account of available information, historical experience and the likelihood of different possible The following standards and interpretations have been issued by outcomes.
Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities the IASB, but have not been adopted by the European Commission could be different from those estimated.
and published in the EU Official Journal for their application to become mandatory: e Pension obligations Pension costs within the income statement and the pension IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual accounting obligations as stated in the balance sheet are both dependent periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9 uses a upon a number of assumptions chosen by management.
single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value.
This approach is based The assumptions used in determining the net cost income on how an entity manages its financial instruments its business for pensions include the expected long term rate of return on the model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these financial assets.
The new standard also requires a single assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
impairment method to be used, replacing the many different The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on a impairment methods in IAS 39. uniform basis, taking into consideration long term historical returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long term investment Key sources of estimation uncertainty returns.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at In applying the above accounting policies, management has made the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used appropriate estimates which are continually evaluated and are to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows based on historical experience and other factors, including expected to be required to settle the pension obligations.
In expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension are discussed below.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations include a Property, plant and equipment estimates of expected longevity for current and future pensioners Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated and estimates of future rates of inflation.
to write down the cost of such assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Management determines estimated useful lives and the related depreciation charges at acquisition, based upon historical experience with similar assets and anticipation of future events such as technological change which might impact upon asset lives.
Subsequently, asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually for appropriateness.
Changes in asset lives or residual values would alter the depreciation charge in the income statement.
b Impairment of assets The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have indefinite useful lives are impaired.
Other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cashgenerating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of future cash flows, discounted at suitable rates.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 65
