Section 5 Additional Information Glossary Celebrating Success Our annual employee recognition programme for store and head ofce employees.
Concessions Brands which are sold through our stores where the stock belongs to a third-party concessionaire.
They are found chiey in womenswear e. g. Wallis, Oasis, Warehouse and accessories e. g. Tripp luggage.
Designers at Debenhams Exclusive diffusion ranges designed for Debenhams by leading international designers including Julien Macdonald, Jasper Conran and John Rocha.
Desire Our smaller format store, typically 15-20,000 sq ft, which sells a mix of own bought womenswear, womens accessories, lingerie, childrenswear and health and beauty.
Direct Our online store available at www.
Earnings Per Share EPS The profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
Flagship Store A large store, typically over 100,000 sq ft, in a major city.
They include Oxford Street and Westeld in London, Henry Street in Dublin, Birmingham, Liverpool and Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Footfall The number of people who visit our stores.
Free Cash Flow Cash generated from operations before exceptional items less net cash used in investing activities.
Gross Margin Gross transaction value less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of gross transaction value.
Gross Transaction Value Revenue excluding VAT on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, consignments and staff discounts.
Headline profit Before Tax profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of capitalised bank fees.
International Brands Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, Clarins and Este Lauder for which Debenhams owns the stock.
Market Share The percentage of the market or market segment that is being serviced by Debenhams.
For instance, if 100 T-shirts were sold a year in the UK and Debenhams sold ten of them, it would have 10 per cent market share.
Own Bought Brands for which Debenhams owns the stock.
They include private label brands, Designers at Debenhams and international brands.
Private Label Brands designed and produced exclusively for Debenhams.
They include brands such as Collection, Mantaray, Maine New England and Red Herring.
116 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 5 Additional Information Shareholder Information Registered Ofce and Head Ofce 1 Welbeck Street London W1G 0AA Registered in England and Wales Company number: 5448421 Financial Advisors Lazard 50 Stratton Street London W1J 8LL Financial Advisors and Stockbrokers Citigroup Global Markets Limited Citigroup Centre Canada Square London E14 5LB Bank of America Merrill Lynch Bank of America Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Solicitors Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS Auditors  LLP 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2766 www.
co. uk Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers costs may vary.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
com Designed and produced by 85FOUR Printed in-house by Debenhams 117 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Debenhams 1 Welbeck Street London W1G 0AA www.
