Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: t make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to t any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements respectively: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue t in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Responsibility Statement Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
12 Each of the directors, whose names and functions are detailed on page 37, confirm that to the best of his her knowledge: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair t view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Directors Report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the t position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
59 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
