Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 75 including goodwill.
The discounted cash fl ow review is consistent with the brand review in its use of estimated future operating cash fl ows, weighted average cost of capital for the cash generating unit concerned and long term growth rates.
The tests are dependent on managements estimates and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash fl ows, the discount rates applied to those cash fl ows and the expected long term growth rates.
Such estimates and judgements are subject to change as a result of changing economic conditions.
Management attempts to make the most appropriate estimates, but actual cash fl ows and rates may be diff erent.
For some recently acquired intangible assets, there is limited headroom as the recoverable amount has been aff ected in the short term by the slowdown in the worldwide economy.
In the year ended 30 June 2010 there was an impairment loss of 35 million in respect of the Ursus brand.
One of the principal markets for Ursus is Greece where the economy suff ered a signifi cant downturn and shows no signs of recovery.
For the Ursus vodka brand acquired in July 2004 and for the Bushmills Irish whiskey, acquired in August 2005, a negative change in the assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount would result in an impairment charge.
For the Ursus vodka brand a 1 percentage point increase in the discount rate, a 1 percentage point decrease in the long term growth rate or a 5% decrease in forecast annual cash fl ows would result in an impairment charge of 3 million, 2 million or 1 million, respectively.
For the Bushmills brand a 1 percentage point increase in the discount rate, would result in an impairment charge of 2 million.
Post employment benefi ts Diageo accounts for post employment benefi ts in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefi ts.
Application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to various assumptions including future pay rises in excess of infl ation, employee and pensioner demographics and the future expected returns on assets.
Diageo determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line with UK practice generally, but the application of diff erent assumptions could have a signifi cant eff ect on the amounts refl ected in the income statement, other comprehensive income and balance sheet in respect of post employment benefi ts.
The assumptions vary among the countries in which the group operates, and there may be an interdependency between some of the assumptions.
The major assumptions used by the group for the three years ended 30 June 2010 are set out in note 4 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
It would be impracticable to give the impact of the eff ect of changes in all of the assumptions used to calculate the post employment charges in the income statement, other comprehensive income and balance sheet, but the following disclosures are provided to assist the reader in assessing the impact of changes in the more critical assumptions.
The fi finance income and charges included in the income statement for post employment benefi ts are partly calculated by assuming an estimated rate of return on the assets held by the post employment plans.
For the year ended 30 June 2010, this was based on the assumption that equities would outperform fi xed interest government bonds by four percentage points.
A one percentage point increase in the expected return on plan assets would have increased profi t before taxation by approximately 51 million.
The rates used to discount the liabilities of the post employment plans are determined by using rates of return on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term.
A half a percentage point increase in the discount rate assumption used to determine the income statement charge in the year ended 30 June 2010 would have increased profi t before taxation by approximately 3 million.
A half a percentage point increase in the discount rate assumption used to determine the post employment liability at 30 June 2010 would have decreased the liabilities before tax by approximately 420 million.
The net liability for post employment benefi ts is partly determined by the fair value at the end of the year of the assets owned by the post employment plans.
A 10% movement in worldwide equity values would increase decrease the net post employment liability before tax at 30 June 2010 by approximately 240 million.
The mortality assumptions used in the UK plan were reassessed in the year ended 30 June 2010 based on the mortality experience of the plan to 31 March 2009 and allowing for future improvements in life expectancy.
For example, it is assumed that members who retire in 2030 at age 65 will live on average for a further 23 years if they are male and for a further 25 years if they are female.
If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater, the charge to profi t before taxation would have increased by approximately 14 million and the net post employment liability before tax would have increased by approximately 232 million.
Exceptional items These are items which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the user to obtain a proper understanding of the fi financial information.
The determination of which items are separately disclosed as exceptional items requires a signifi cant degree of judgement.
Taxation The group is required to estimate the corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary diff erences which arise as a consequence of diff erent accounting and tax treatments.
These temporary diff erences result in deferred tax assets or liabilities which are included within the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
This evaluation requires judgements to be made including the forecast of future taxable income.
Tax benefi ts are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefi t to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefi t on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
The group operates in many countries in the world and is subject to many tax jurisdictions and rules.
As a consequence the group is subject to tax audits, which by their nature are often complex and can require several years to conclude.
Management judgement is required to determine the total provision for income tax.
Amounts accrued are based on managements interpretation of country specifi c tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
However the actual tax liabilities could diff er from the provision and in such event the group would be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a material impact on the groups profi t and loss and or cash position.
New accounting standards A number of IFRS standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB or IFRIC.
Those that are of relevance to the group are discussed in note 1 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 76 Governance contents 77 Board of directors and executive committee 80 Directors remuneration report 93 Corporate governance report 102 Directors report Through its global operations and its interactions with local communities, Diageo seeks to build strong and meaningful relationships with its broad range of stakeholders.
Better relationships mean better business and a clearer understanding of what is expected of Diageo.
Building stronger relationships with customers provides Diageo insight into shopper behaviours while helping its customers to better understand how to build and manage categories.
Diageo benefi ts along with suppliers and business partners where both share common experiences.
Greater engagement with the communities in which the company operates not only helps local stability and Building economic growth, but creates a better business environment strong for Diageo.
