Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 37 Business review Organic movements in volume, sales, net sales, marketing spend and Introduction operating profi t are non-GAAP measures.
The performance of the Information presented group is discussed using these measures.
Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business and operates on In the discussion of the performance of the business, organic an international scale selling all types of beverage alcohol.
It is one of a information is presented using pounds sterling amounts on a constant small number of premium drinks companies that operate across spirits, currency basis.
This retranslates prior year reported numbers at current beer and wine.
Diageos brands have broad consumer appeal across year exchange rates and enables an understanding of the underlying geographies, and as a result, the business is organised under the performance of the market that is most closely infl uenced by the business areas of North America, Europe, International, Asia Pacifi c and actions of that markets management.
The risk from exchange rate Global Supply.
In view of the focus on reporting results by the location movements is managed centrally and is not a factor over which local of third party customers in explaining the groups performance in the managers have any control.
Residual exchange impacts are reported business review, the results of the Global Supply segment have been within Corporate.
allocated to the geographic segments.
The following discussion is Acquisitions, disposals and exceptional items also impact on the based on Diageos results for the year ended 30 June 2010 compared reported performance and therefore the reported movement in any with the year ended 30 June 2009, and the year ended 30 June 2009 period in which they arise.
Management adjusts for the impact of such compared with the year ended 30 June 2008. transactions in assessing the performance of the underlying business.
In the discussion of the performance of the business, net sales, The underlying performance on a constant currency basis and which is defi ned as sales after deducting excise duties, are presented in excluding the impact of exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals addition to sales, since sales refl ect signifi cant components of excise is referred to as organic performance.
Organic movement calculations duties which are set by external regulators and over which Diageo has enable the reader to focus on the performance of the business which no control.
Diageo incurs excise duties throughout the world.
In some is common to both periods.
countries, excise duties are based on sales and are separately identifi ed Diageos strategic planning and budgeting process is based on on the face of the invoice to the external customer.
In others, it is organic movements in volume, sales, net sales and operating profi t, and eff ectively a production tax, which is incurred when the spirit is these measures closely refl ect the way in which operating targets are removed from bonded warehouses.
In these countries it is part of the defi ned and performance is monitored by the groups management.
cost of goods sold and is not separately identifi ed on the sales invoice.
These measures are chosen for planning, budgeting, reporting Changes in the level of excise duties can signifi cantly aff ect the level of and incentive purposes since they represent those measures which reported sales and cost of sales, without directly refl ecting changes in local managers are most directly able to infl uence and they enable volume, mix or profi tability that are the variables which impact on the consideration of the underlying business performance without the element of sales retained by the group.
distortion caused by fl uctuating exchange rates, exceptional items The underlying performance on a constant currency basis and and acquisitions and disposals.
excluding the impact of exceptional items, acquisitions, disposals and The groups management believes these measures provide the adoption of new accounting policies is referred to as organic valuable additional information for users of the fi financial statements performance, and further information on the calculation of organic in understanding the groups performance since they provide measures as used in the discussion of the business is included in the information on those elements of performance which local managers organic movements calculation and in the notes to that calculation.
are most directly able to infl uence and they focus on that element of the core brand portfolio which is common to both periods.
They Presentation of information in relation to the business should be viewed as complementary to, and not replacements for, In addition to describing the signifi cant factors impacting on the the comparable GAAP measures and reported movements therein.
income statement compared to the prior year for both of the years ended 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009, additional information is also presented on the operating performance and cash fl ows of the group.
There are ten principal fi financial key performance indicators not specifi cally used in the consolidated fi financial statements themselves non-GAAP measures used by the groups management to assess the performance of the group in addition to income statement measures of performance.
These are volume, the organic movements in volume, sales, net sales, marketing spend and operating profi t, return on average total invested capital, underlying tax rate, economic profi t and free cash fl ow.
These key performance indicators are described below: Volume is a non-GAAP measure that has been measured on an equivalent units basis to nine-litre cases of spirits.
An equivalent unit represents one nine-litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert volume of products, other than spirits, to equivalent units, the following guide has been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine-litre cases divide by fi five, ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide by 10 and certain pre-mixed products that are classifi ed as ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide by fi five.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business review 38 Return on average total invested capital is a non-GAAP measure that is Free cash fl ow is a non-GAAP measure that comprises the net cash fl ow used by management to assess the return obtained from the groups from operating activities as well as the net purchase and disposal of asset base and it is calculated to aid comparison of the performance investments, property, plant and equipment and computer software of the business.
that form part of net cash fl ow from investing activities.
The groups The profi t used in assessing the return on total invested capital management believes the measure assists users of the fi financial refl ects the operating performance of the business after applying the statements in understanding the groups cash generating performance underlying tax rate for the period stated before exceptional items and as it comprises items which arise from the running of the ongoing business.
Average total invested capital is calculated using the average The remaining components of net cash fl ow from investing derived from the consolidated balance sheets at the beginning, middle activities that do not form part of free cash fl ow, as defi ned by the and end of the period.
Capital employed comprises net assets for the groups management, are in respect of the purchase and disposal of period, excluding post employment benefi t liabilities net of deferred subsidiaries, associates and businesses.
The groups management tax and net borrowings.
This average capital employed is then regards the purchase and disposal of property, plant and equipment aggregated with the average restructuring and integration costs net and computer software as ultimately non-discretionary since ongoing of tax, and goodwill written off to reserves at 1 July 2004, the date of investment in plant, machinery and technology is required to support transition to IFRS, to obtain the average total invested capital.
day-to-day operations, whereas acquisitions and disposals of businesses are discretionary.
However, free cash fl ow does not Underlying tax rate is a non-GAAP measure that refl ects the adjusted necessarily refl ect all amounts which the group has either a tax charge on profi t from continuing businesses before exceptional constructive or legal obligation to incur.
Where appropriate, separate items as a percentage of profi t from continuing businesses before discussion is given for the impacts of acquisitions and disposals of exceptional items.
The underlying tax rate is also used by management businesses, equity dividends paid and the purchase of own shares, for their own planning, budgeting, reporting and incentive purposes each of which arises from decisions that are independent from the since it provides information on those elements of performance which running of the ongoing underlying business.
management is most directly able to infl uence.
The free cash fl ow measure is used by management for their The groups management believes the measure assists users of own planning, budgeting, reporting and incentive purposes since it the fi financial statements in understanding the groups eff ective tax rate provides information on those elements of performance which local as it refl ects the tax arising on the profi ts from the ongoing business.
managers are most directly able to infl uence.
The components of the reported tax charge which do not form part of the adjusted tax charge, as defi ned by the groups management, relate to: exceptional tax items: movements on deferred tax assets arising from intra group reorganisations which are due to changes in estimates in expected future utilisation: and any other tax charge or credit that arises from intra group reorganisations.
Economic profi t is a non-GAAP measure that is used by management to assess the groups return from its asset base compared to a standard cost of capital charge and is calculated to aid comparison of the performance of the business.
The profi t used in assessing the return from the groups asset base and the asset base itself are the same as those used in the calculation for the return on average total invested capital see above.
The standard capital charge applied to the average total invested capital is currently 9%, being managements assessment of a constant minimum level of return that the group expects to generate from its asset base.
Economic profi t is calculated as the diff erence between the standard capital charge on the average invested assets and the actual return achieved by the group on those assets.
