Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business review 74 Market risk sensitivity analysis This section on market risk sensitivity analysis forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The group is using a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated impacts on the income statement and other comprehensive income of either an instantaneous increase or decrease of 0.5% 50 basis points in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in sterling against all other currencies, from the rates applicable at 30 June 2010 2009 - 100 basis points increase or decrease in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in sterling against all other currencies, for each class of fi financial instruments with all other variables remaining constant.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of market risks on the net post employment benefi t liability and corporate tax payable.
This analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice interest and foreign exchange rates rarely change in isolation.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the following: Financial instruments are valued at the balance sheet date using discounted cash fl ow techniques.
Changes in interest rates aff ect the interest income or expense of variable interest fi financial instruments.
Changes in interest rates only aff ect interest income or expense in relation to fi financial instruments with fi xed interest rates if these are recognised at fair value.
Changes in interest rates aff ect the fair value of derivative fi financial instruments designated as hedging instruments.
Changes in the fair values of derivative fi financial instruments and other fi financial assets and liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash fl ows to net present values using rates prevailing at the year end.
All interest rate, net investment and foreign currency cash fl ow hedges are expected to be highly eff ective.
The sensitivity analysis estimates the impact of changes in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Actual results in the future may diff er from these results materially due to developments in the global fi financial markets which may cause fl uctuations in interest and exchange rates to vary from the hypothetical amounts disclosed in the following table, which therefore should not be considered as projections of likely future events, gains or losses.
Hypothetical changes in other risk variables would not signifi cantly aff ect the fair value of fi financial instruments at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009.
Sensitivity analysis table 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 10% 10% in interest in interest weakening strengthening rates rates of sterling of sterling million million million million At 30 June 2010 Impact on income statement gain loss 19 19 33 27 a b Impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income gain loss 34 33 739 605 1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% in interest in interest weakening strengthening rates rates of sterling of sterling million million million million At 30 June 2009 Impact on income statement gain loss 33 39 38 31 a b Impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income gain loss 30 31 834 682 a The groups foreign currency debt is used as a hedge of net investments in foreign operations and as such the translation of foreign net investments would mainly off set the foreign currency gains or losses on fi financial instruments recognised in other comprehensive income.
b Impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income includes the impact on the income statement.
The above analysis considers the impact of all fi financial instruments including fi financial derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and other fi financial assets and liabilities.
Critical accounting policies This section on critical accounting policies forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The consolidated fi financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Diageos accounting policies are set out in the notes to the consolidated fi financial statements in this Annual Report.
In applying these policies, the directors are required to make estimates and subjective judgements that may aff ect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and reported profi t for the year.
The directors base these on a combination of past experience and any other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The actual outcome could diff er from those estimates.
Of Diageos accounting policies, the directors consider that policies in relation to the following areas are particularly subject to estimates and the exercise of judgement.
Brands, goodwill and other intangibles Acquired intangible assets are held on the consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Where these assets are regarded as having indefi nite useful economic lives, they are not amortised.
Assessment of the useful economic life of an asset, or that an asset has an indefi nite life, requires management judgement.
Impairment reviews are carried out to ensure that intangible assets, including brands, are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
In particular, the group performs a discounted cash fl ow analysis at least annually to compare discounted estimated future operating cash fl ows to the net carrying value of each acquired brand.
The analysis is based on forecast cash fl ows with terminal values being calculated using the long term growth rate the real GDP growth rate of the country plus its infl ation rate of the principal markets in which the majority of the profi ts of each brand are or will be generated.
The estimated cash fl ows are discounted at the groups weighted average cost of capital in the relevant country.
In assessing whether goodwill is carried at above its recoverable amount, a discounted cash fl ow analysis is performed annually to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash fl ows of cash generating units of the group to the net assets attributable to the cash generating units
