Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 20 Product off ering basis to nine-litre cases of spirits.
Diageo classifi es eight brands as An equivalent unit represents one global priority brands: Smirnoff, nine-litre case of spirits, which is Johnnie Walker, Baileys, Captain approximately 272 servings.
A Morgan, J&B, Jose Cuervo, serving comprises 33ml of spirits, Tanqueray and Guinness.
These 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to brands are the main focus for the drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert business and receive the majority volume of products other than of the marketing spend.
In spirits to equivalent units, the aggregate, they comprise 54% following guide has been used: of Diageos net sales.
beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, Several other brands also wine in nine-litre cases divide by have leading positions in the fi five, ready to drink in nine-litre Global priority brands Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies markets in which they are cases divide by 10 and certain Smirnoff vodka and Smirnoff distributed.
They drive growth pre-mixed products that are on a signifi cant scale but with classifi ed as ready to drink in ready to drink products a narrower geographical reach nine-litre cases divide by fi five.
Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur than the global priority brands.
Diageos portfolio of Captain Morgan rum and rum Examples of brands with regional premium drinks comprises brands strength are Crown Royal owned by the company as a based products Canadian whisky and Ketel One principal and brands held by the Jose Cuervo tequila agency brand in North America and vodka in North America, company under agency or many other markets Buchanans scotch whisky in distribution agreements.
Diageos agency agreements vary J&B scotch whisky Latin America and the Caribbean, and Windsor Premier scotch depending on the particular Tanqueray gin Guinness stout whisky in Asia Pacifi c. brand, but tend to be for a fi xed number of years.
Diageos principal agency brand is Jose Diageo has eight global priority Business eff ectiveness Over the long term, Diageos Cuervo in North America and brands that it markets worldwide.
Diageo considers these brands to strategy continues to focus on many other markets with have the greatest current and driving growth and increasing distribution rights extending to 2013.
Diageo also brews and sells future earnings potential.
other companies beer brands global priority brand is marketed consistently around the world, Incorporation under licence, including Budweiser and therefore can achieve scale Diageo was incorporated as Arthur and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, Guinness Son & Company Limited Heineken lager in Jamaica and benefi ts.
The group manages and Smirnoff vodka is the worlds leading invests in these brands on a global on 21 October 1886.
The group Tiger beer in Malaysia.
There can premium spirit by basis.
Figures for global priority was formed by the merger of be no assurance that Diageo will volume, according to brands include related ready Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Impact Databank Top be able to prevent termination 100 Premium Spirits Company GrandMet and of distribution, manufacturing to drink products, unless February 2010.
Guinness PLC the Guinness or licence agreements or to 2010 Smirnoff volume In the year ended 30 June Group in December 1997. was 24.3 million renegotiate distribution, nine-litre cases.
2010, global priority brands manufacturing or licence agreements on favourable terms accounted for 57% of total volume Premium drinks 81.9 million equivalent units References to ready to drink when they expire.
and contributed net sales of Diageo is engaged in a broad products in this report include Diageo classifi es its brands 5,267 million.
range of activities within the progressive adult beverages in the as global priority brands and beverage alcohol industry, with United States and certain markets other brands.
The classifi cation Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies comprise Johnnie Walker products sold in approximately supplied by the United States.
of brands as local priority Red Label, Johnnie Walker Black 180 markets around the world.
In the year ended 30 June brands and category brands Label and several other brand Its operations include producing, 2010, Diageo sold 114.9 million has been discontinued for distilling, brewing, bottling, equivalent units of spirits reporting purposes.
During the year ended 30 June 2010, Johnnie Walker Red packaging, distributing, including ready to drink, 25 Label sold 10 million equivalent developing and marketing a range million equivalent units of beer units, Johnnie Walker Black Label of brands.
Diageo markets a wide and 3.5 million equivalent units of range of recognised beverage wine.
In the year ended 30 June sold 5.3 million equivalent units and the remaining variants sold alcohol brands including a 2010, ready to drink products 0.7 million equivalent units.
The number of the worlds leading contributed 5.9 million equivalent Johnnie Walker franchise was spirits and beer brands.
In calendar units of total volume, of which year 2009, the Diageo brand Smirnoff ready to drink variants ranked, by volume, as the number one premium scotch whisky and range included 17 of the top accounted for 3.9 million the number three premium spirit 100 premium distilled spirits equivalent units.
Volume has been brand in the world.
measured on an equivalent units Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 21 Smirnoff achieved volume of 28.3 Other spirits brands include: Production million equivalent units in the year Cr own Royal Canadian whisky Diageo owns production facilities ended 30 June 2010.
Smirnoff Buchanans scotch whisky including maltings, distilleries, vodka volume was 24.3 million Ketel One vodka exclusive breweries, packaging plants, equivalent units.
It was ranked, by worldwide distribution rights maturation warehouses, volume, as the number one Windsor Premier scotch whisky cooperages, vineyards, wineries premium vodka and the number Gordons gin and vodka and distribution warehouses.
one premium spirit brand in the Old Parr scotch whisky Production also occurs at plants world.
Smirnoff ready to drink Seagrams 7 Crown whiskey and owned and operated by third volume totalled 3.9 million Seagrams VO whisky parties and joint ventures at a equivalent units.
Cacique rum number of locations internationally.
Baileys was ranked, by Bundaberg rum Approximately 85% of total volume, as the number one Bells scotch whisky production is undertaken by liqueur in the world, having sold The Classic Malts scotch Global Supply organised into four 6.6 million equivalent units in the whiskies production centres, namely year ended 30 June 2010.
Croc vodka Europe Supply, America Supply, Captain Morgan was ranked White Horse scotch whisky Global Beer Supply and Asia number two in the world by Don Julio tequila Supply.
The remaining production volume, amongst its competitive Bushmills Irish whiskey activities of the group are set, the rum category, with volume integrated with the distribution of 8.9 million equivalent units in For the year ended 30 June 2010, organisation, principally in Africa the year ended 30 June 2010. other spirits brands contributed within International.
The majority Guinness is the groups only volume of 33 million equivalent of Global Supplys production global priority beer brand, and for units, representing 23% of centres have several production the year ended 30 June 2010 total volume, and net sales of facilities.
The locations, principal achieved volume of 10.7 million 2,811 million.
activities, products, packaging equivalent units.
production capacity and Other global priority brands Other beer brands include: packaging production volume were also ranked, by volume, Malta Guinness of Global Supplys principal among the leading premium non-alcoholic malt production centres in the year distilled spirits brands by Impact Harp lager ended 30 June 2010 are set out Databank.
These include: Jose Tusker lager in the following table: Cuervo, ranked the number one Smithwicks ale premium tequila in the world: J&B Senator lager scotch whisky comprising J&B Red Stripe lager Wine brands include: Rare, J&B Reserve, J&B Exception Blossom Hill and J&B Jet, ranked the number In the year ended 30 June 2010, Sterling Vineyards three premium scotch whisky in Diageo sold 14 million equivalent Beaulieu Vineyard the world: and Tanqueray, ranked units of beers other than Chalone Vineyard the number four premium gin Guinness, achieving net sales of Navarro Correas brand in the world.
Other beer volume Rosenblum Cellars ended 30 June 2010, Jose Cuervo, was mainly attributable to owned Santa Rita J&B and Tanqueray sold 4.5 million, brands with a minority being 4.9 million and 2.0 million attributable to beers brewed and For the year ended 30 June 2010, equivalent units, respectively.
or sold under licence, such as Tiger wine volume was 3.5 million beer in Malaysia and Heineken equivalent units, contributing lager in Jamaica.
Production Production volume in capacity in 2010 in millions of millions of equivalent equivalent Production centre Location Principal activities and products units units Europe Supply United Kingdom Scotch whisky, gin, vodka, rum, ready to drink 73 45 Ireland Baileys Irish cream liqueur, vodka 15 8 Italy Santa Vittoria Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 10 7 America Supply United States, Canada Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, Canadian whisky, American whiskey, progressive adult beverages, ready to drink 45 39 United States Wine 1 1 Global Beer Supply Ireland Guinness Beer 11 8 Jamaica Beer 1 1 Asia Supply Australia Rum, vodka, ready to drink 2 2 Capacity represents ongoing production capacity at any production centre.
The production capacities quoted in the table are based on actual production levels for the year ended 30 June 2010 adjusted for the elimination of unplanned losses and ineffi ciencies, and taking into account planned manning levels for the coming year.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 22 Spirits are produced in distilleries Diageos principal brewing In June 2010 Diageo entered into a located worldwide.
The group facilities are at the St Jamess Gate sale and leaseback arrangement in owns 30 scotch whisky distilleries brewery in Dublin and in Kilkenny, respect of vineyards and facilities in Scotland, an Irish whiskey Waterford and Dundalk in the located in Napa Valley, California.
distillery in Northern Ireland, two Republic of Ireland, and in Nigeria, The vineyards and facilities were whisky distilleries in Canada, and Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, Malaysia purchased and leased back to vodka gin distilleries in the United and Jamaica.
Ireland is the main Diageo under a 20-year lease, with Kingdom and the United States.
export centre for the Guinness Diageo holding options to extend Diageo produces Smirnoff vodka brand.
In other countries, Guinness the lease at fair value for up to 80 internationally, Popov vodka and is brewed by third parties under years in total.
Diageo remains the Gordons vodka in the United licence arrangements.
operator of the properties under States, and Baileys in the Republic All Guinness Draught the lease agreement and retains of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
production is at the St Jamess ownership of the brands, vines and Rum is blended and bottled in the Gate brewery in Dublin in the grapes, which remain a strategic United States, Canada, Italy and the Republic of Ireland.
Guinness part of Diageos wine business.
United Kingdom, and is distilled, Draught in cans and bottles, which blended and bottled in Australia uses an in-container system to Raw materials and Venezuela.
All of Diageos replicate the taste of Guinness The group has a number of long maturing scotch whisky is located Draught, is packaged at Runcorn term contracts in place for the in warehouses in Scotland and Belfast in the United Kingdom.
purchase of signifi cant raw primarily at Blackgrange, its The Runcorn facility performs the materials including glass, other maturing Canadian whisky in La kegging of Guinness Draught, packaging, tequila, bulk whisky, Salle and Gimli in Canada and all its transported to the United neutral spirits, cream, rum and maturing American whiskey in Kingdom in bulk for the Great grapes.
In addition, forward Kentucky and Tennessee in the Britain market.
contracts are in place for the United States.
Diageo announced the purchase of other raw materials On 1 July 2009, the group restructuring of its brewing including sugar and cereals to announced a restructuring of its operations in Ireland in 2008 with minimise the eff ects of short term operations in Scotland.
The plans the intention of consolidating price fl uctuations.
included the consolidation of operations to a new greenfi eld Cream is the principal raw distilling, packaging and brewery in the Dublin area and material used in the production of warehousing activities and decommissioning the existing Irish cream liqueur and is sourced involved the closure of a brewing infrastructure.
Grapes are used in packaging plant, a distillery and a was reviewed in 2009 due to the the production of wine and are cooperage over a two-year period.
changing economic conditions sourced from suppliers in the New investment is concentrated in both globally and locally in Ireland.
the production sites at Leven in A review of options continued in Other raw materials purchased Captain Morgan is the Fife where work has begun on the 2010 to examine the desirability in signifi cant quantities for the fastest selling brand in the Top 20 Premium expansion of the packaging facility of network consolidation.
The production of spirits and beer are Spirits Impact Databank which is due to be fully operational project remains under review and tequila, bulk whisky, neutral spirits, February 2010 and within two years, at Shieldhall a business case for investment molasses, rum, cereals, sugar and a marketing investment accelerated in the second near Glasgow and at Cambus behind consolidation is being number of fl avours such as juniper half of 2010 to support its near Alloa.
berries, agave, chocolate and growth in the United In June 2008, Diageo and Diageos principal wineries herbs.
These are sourced from States and other markets.
the government of the US Virgin are in the United States and suppliers around the world.
For European markets, manufacturing, distilling, brewing, The majority of products are bottling and administration private initiative for the wines are mainly bottled in supplied to customers in glass construction and operation of a Diageos facilities in Italy.
Wines facilities spread across the groups bottles.
Glass is purchased from high capacity distillery in St Croix.
are sold both in their local markets worldwide operations, as well as suppliers located around the This new facility, expected to and overseas.
vineyards and wineries in the world, the principal supplier being United States.
Approximately become operational by January the Owens Illinois group.
2011, will have the capacity to distil Property, plant and equipment 39%, 22% and 20% of the book Diageo has a supply up to 12 million equivalent units Diageo owns or leases land and value of Diageos land and agreement with Casa Cuervo SA annually and will supply all bulk buildings throughout the world.
buildings comprise properties fide CV, a Mexican company, for located in Great Britain, Ireland rum used to produce Captain The principal production facilities the supply of bulk tequila used Morgan branded products for the are described above.
As at 30 June and the United States, respectively.
to make the Jose Cuervo line of United States.
2010, Diageos land and buildings Approximately 91% by value of tequilas and tequila drinks in Diageo produces a range of are included in the groups the groups properties are owned the United States.
The supply and approximately 3% are held ready to drink products mainly in consolidated balance sheet at a agreement extends to June 2013. the United Kingdom, Italy, South net book value of 746 million.
under leases running for 50 years Diageo has a supply Africa, Australia, the United States Diageos largest individual facility, or longer.
agreement with Destilria Serralls and Canada.
in terms of book value, is St Jamess Inc, a Puerto Rican corporation, Gate brewery in Dublin.
Diageos under which Diageo purchases properties are primarily a variety of all bulk rum for use in Captain Morgan products sold in the United States.
Diageo is entitled Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 23 to terminate this contract with are managed at the corporate eff ect from the end of December North America level.
The spirits 2011, at which time Diageo intends clusters market the majority of to source rum for its Captain Diageos collection of spirits Morgan products from the brands including Smirnoff vodka, distillery that is being built Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, in the US Virgin Islands.
Jose Cuervo tequila, Johnnie Walker scotch whisky, Captain Marketing and distribution Morgan, Tanqueray gin, J&B scotch Diageo is committed to investing whisky, Crown Royal Canadian in its brands.
In the year ended whisky, Seagrams 7 Crown 30 June 2010, 1,419 million was American whiskey, Seagrams VO spent worldwide on marketing Canadian whisky, Buchanans brands with a focus on the eight scotch whisky and Ketel One global priority brands that vodka across the United States.
accounted for 64% of total Diageo-Guinness USA marketing spend.
markets Diageos US beer brands Diageo makes extensive use including Guinness stout, Harp of magazine, newspaper, point lager, Red Stripe lager and of sale and poster and billboard Smithwicks ale as well as the advertising, and uses radio, Business analysis groups progressive adult cinema, television and internet In the year ended 30 June 2010, beverages including Smirnoff Ice, advertising where appropriate North America, Europe, Smirnoff premium mixed drinks and permitted by law.
Diageo International and Asia Pacifi c and Captain Morgan Parrot Bay also runs consumer promotional contributed 39%, 29%, 26% and Tropical Malt Beverage.
programmes in the on trade 6%, respectively, of the groups Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines for example, licensed bars and operating profi t before DC&E owns and operates restaurants.
Diageo also uses exceptional items and wineries in California and Marketing spend for Crown Royal increased sponsorship to market its brands corporate costs.
Washington State including in 2010 behind its NASCAR and is a sponsor of the Formula An analysis of net sales and Beaulieu Vineyard, Sterling sponsorship, multicultural marketing One Racing Team Vodafone operating profi t by operating Vineyards, Chalone Vineyard programmes and the McLaren Mercedes, a NASCAR segment for the year ended and Provenance Vineyards and new super premium racing team and the Johnnie 30 June 2010 is as follows: markets these and other wines variant Crown Royal Black.
In the Within the United States, there are Diageo markets and North America year ended 30 June 2010, Diageo distributes its brands through four North America is the largest undertook a review of the DC&E generally two types of regulatory regions: North America, Europe, market for Diageo in terms of wine business and announced the environments: open states and International and Asia Pacifi c. operating profi t, and the largest restructuring of its wine division control states.
In open states, spirits companies are allowed to sell market for premium drinks in the including a reduction in the sales world.
Diageo markets its products force, the sale and leaseback of spirits, wine and beer directly to through four operating units: US vineyards and facilities in independent distributors.
In these Spirits, Diageo-Guinness USA, Napa Valley, California, and the open states, Diageo generally trades through a three-tier Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines anticipated sale of non-strategic and Diageo Canada.
wine brands in the year ending distribution system, where the The US Spirits business, while 30 June 2011. product is initially sold to managed as a single business unit, The Canada business unit distributors, who then sell it to on and off trade retailers.
In most executes sales and marketing distributes the groups collection activities through 14 teams or of spirits, wine and beer brands control states, Diageo markets clusters.
National brand strategy across all Canadian territories.
its spirits products to state liquor and strategic accounts marketing control boards through the bailment warehousing system, and from there to state or agency liquor stores.
There are variations Operating profi t loss for example, certain states before control distribution but not retail exceptional Operating Net sales items profi t loss sales.
Generally, wines are treated million million million in the same way as spirits, North America 3,306 1,170 1,132 although most states that are Europe 2,759 859 806 control states for spirits are open International 2,627 771 766 states for wines.
Beer distribution generally follows open states Asia Pacifi c 1,018 176 146 regulation across the United Global Supply 39 States.
In Canada, beer and spirits Corporate 70 225 237 distribution laws are generally Total 9,780 2,751 2,574 consistent and similar to those of control states in the United States.
For details see note 2 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 24 Diageo, however, has some of brands in Ireland, are brewed International licences to deliver keg beer directly and sold under licence in addition Diageo International comprises to licensed accounts, which to Smithwicks ale and Harp lager.
Latin America and the Caribbean account for approximately 20% of In Russia, Diageo operates including Mexico, Africa Diageos beer business in Canada.
through its wholly owned subsidiary.
excluding North Africa Across the United States, Across the remainder of and Global Travel and Middle Diageos distributors and brokers mainland Europe, Diageo East business.
have over 2,500 dedicated sales distributes its spirits brands In Latin America and the people focused on selling its spirits primarily through its own Caribbean, distribution is achieved and wine brands.
Diageo has distribution companies with the through a mixture of Diageo pursued a distribution strategy following exceptions.
In France companies and third party centred around consolidating the Diageo sells its spirits and wine distributors.
In addition, Diageo distribution of Diageos US spirits products through a joint owns a controlling interest in and wine brands into a single arrangement with Mot Hennessy, Desnoes & Geddes Limited, distributor or broker in each state and its beer products through the Jamaican brewer of Red where possible.
The strategy Brasseries Kronenbourg part of Stripe lager.
is designed to provide a the Carlsberg group.
In Hungary Africa provides some of the consolidated distribution network, Diageo sells its brands through longest established and largest which will limit the duplication of its associate company Zwack.
markets for the Guinness brand, activities between Diageo and the In the Baltic states, Czech Republic, with the brewing of Guinness distributor, improve Diageos and Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Foreign Extra Stout in a number of distributors selling capabilities and Cyprus, Malta, various territories in African countries, either through enable a number of alternative the Balkans, CIS and Israel, Diageo subsidiaries or under licence.
approaches to optimise product sells and markets its brands via Diageo has a three-way venture distribution.
To date, Diageo local distributors.
In the Nordic with Heineken and Namibia has consolidated its business countries Diageo has sales offi ces Breweries Limited in South Africa in 41 markets 40 states plus in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, for a combined beer, cider and Washington DC, representing and representation through third ready to drink collection of brands.
over 80% of Diageos US spirits party distributors in Finland and Diageo also has a 25% equity and wine volume.
In all Nordic markets interest in a venture with Heineken states will be consolidated as except Denmark, off trade sales are which owns a brewery in Gauteng, opportunities arise.
Diageo is controlled by state monopolies, South Africa.
Diageo has a wholly now focused on building the with alcohol tax rates among the owned brewery in Cameroon and capabilities and selling tools of the highest in the world, and border also has majority owned breweries distributors dedicated sales forces trade and duty free are important in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Uganda and creating a more effi cient and sources of sales.
Smirnoff Ice and the Seychelles.
is sold in Nordic countries Global Travel and Middle through Carlsberg.
East encompasses a sales and Europe A specialist unit has been marketing organisation which Diageo Europe comprises six established for the distribution of targets the international consumer operating units: Great Britain, Diageos beer brands in mainland in duty free and travel retail outlets Ireland, Iberia, Northern Europe, Europe in order to achieve such as airport shops, airlines and Southern Europe, and Russia and synergies in the marketing and ferries around the world, and Eastern Europe.
distribution of Guinness and distribution of Diageo brands in In Great Britain, Diageo sells Kilkenny brands.
The distribution the Middle East and North Africa.
and markets its products via three of these brands is managed by this The global nature of the travel business units: Diageo GB spirits, specialist unit with particular focus channel and its organisation beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox national multiple grocers together on the markets in Germany, Russia structure allows a specialist Diageo & Co wines and Justerini & Brooks make up over 60% of home and France, which are the largest management team to apply a Retail private client wines.
mainland European beer markets co-ordinated approach to brand Products are distributed both Ireland comprises the by size for Diageo.
building initiatives and to build on through independent wholesalers Republic of Ireland and Northern consumer insights in this trade and directly to the major grocers, Ireland.
In both territories, Diageo channel, where consumer convenience and specialist stores.
sells and distributes directly to behaviour tends to be diff erent In the on trade for example, both the on trade and the off trade from domestic markets.
In the licensed bars and restaurants, for example, retail shops and Middle East and North Africa, products are sold through the wholesalers through a telesales distribution is achieved through major brewers, multiple retail operation, extensive sales calls to third party distributors.
Lebanon groups and smaller regional outlets and third party logistics is an exception, where a Diageo independent brewers and providers.
The Guinness, Smirnoff subsidiary distributes the majority wholesalers.
The customer and Baileys brands are market of the Diageo brands sold there.
base in Great Britain has seen leaders in their respective consolidation in recent years in categories of long alcoholic drinks, both the on trade and home vodka and liqueurs.
In and Carlsberg lagers, also major particular, Great Britains top four products in the Diageo collection Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 25 Asia Pacifi c whisky packaging, the Philippines Corporate Diageo Asia Pacifi c comprises and Australia rum, vodka and Corporate costs which cannot be India, the Peoples Republic of ready to drink.
directly allocated to the business China, South Korea, Japan, The global procurement areas are reported separately Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, organisation also forms part within Corporate in the analysis Malaysia and other Asian markets, of Global Supply and has of business performance.
Also Australia and New Zealand.
responsibility for sourcing goods included in Corporate are the Diageo works with a number and services for the group.
revenues and costs related to rents of joint venture partners in Asia A global network of suppliers receivable in respect of properties Pacifi c. In Singapore, Malaysia, provides for a wide range of raw not used by Diageo in the Hong Kong and Macau, the materials and packaging items manufacture, sale or distribution Peoples Republic of China and that are necessary to ensure of premium drink products and Thailand, Diageo distributes the consistency of quality to support the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
majority of its spirits brands the brands.
With the high level through joint venture of dependency on agricultural Seasonal impacts arrangements with Mot commodities such as cereals, hops, The festive holiday season Hennessy.
Diageo also has a agave and sugar, forward-buying provides the peak period for sales.
wholly owned subsidiary in China takes place to minimise value at Approximately 40% of annual net Diageo acquired the global for brands not included in the joint risk.
In marketing, global sales occur in the last four months distribution rights outside procurement supports the of each calendar year.
venture such as Smirnoff, Windsor of Namibia and South Africa to Windhoek, the premium and Baileys.
In South Korea, India, business in sourcing creative African lager in February Vietnam and Taiwan, Diageos media solutions, sponsorship and Employees 2009.
The brand has since own distribution companies been successfully launched point of sale activities.
Global Diageos people, its culture and in Uganda, Cameroon and procurement also supports its values are at the heart of the distribute the majority of Diageos Great Britain.
In Japan, the joint venture business services, facilities and companys strategy and Diageos with Mot Hennessy distributes computer services.
directors believe this to be a source super premium brands, such as Global Supply The global technical function of competitive advantage.
It develops and implements continues to be Diageos goal the super deluxe variants of Global Supply is responsible for Johnnie Walker, while the joint consistent engineering solutions to release the potential of all of the production of approximately venture with Kirin distributes 85% of Diageos products sold across the Global Supply its people.
Diageos other premium spirits, globally, for sourcing materials organisation and in other Diageo aims to be amongst production sites in Africa and Asia.
the most admired companies in like Johnnie Walker Black Label and services through global and Smirnoff, as well as Guinness The global supply chain function all key geographies.
Consistent procurement, for providing and Smirnoff Ice.
Other spirit consistent technical support also provides logistics services with this, Diageo participated in brands, which are not distributed through the global technical in Europe and is responsible independent surveys during the for a consistent customer year and is currently rated in the by either Mot Hennessy or the function and providing logistic Kirin joint venture, are handled by service globally.
top 10 employers in six of its key and customer services through third parties.
In Malaysia, Diageos the global supply chain markets.
Further to this aim, own and third party beers are organisation.
Diageo endeavours to create a workplace that is both welcoming brewed and distributed by a listed Production is managed by business Guinness Anchor and challenging for all employees.
four Global Supply production Berhad in which Diageo and its centres, Europe Supply, America Diageo values diversity in its partner, Asia Pacifi c Breweries, Supply, Global Beer Supply and workforce and works to ensure that the group is inclusive of all have a majority share through Asia Supply.
Europe Supply a jointly controlled joint venture people, regardless of their comprises Scotland scotch company.
In Singapore, Diageos whisky, gin, vodka, rum and ready background or style.
To enhance beer brands are brewed and to drink, Baileys Ireland Irish cream diversity, Diageo aims to create opportunities that are attractive distributed by Asia Pacifi c Breweries.
liqueur and vodka and Santa Generally, the remaining to a wide range of candidates, Vittoria Italy vodka, wine, rum and markets in Asia are served by third ready to drink, all producing including those with disabilities, party distribution networks goods for markets globally.
and seeks to make working for Diageo compatible with a variety monitored by regional offi ces.
America Supply comprises North In Australia, Diageo has its America Spirits Supply located in own production and distribution the United States and Canada company, which handles the vodka, gin, tequila, rum, Canadian Average number of employees 2010 2009 2008 majority of products sold in the whisky, American whiskey, North America 1,615 2,258 2,234 Australian market.
It also has progressive adult beverages, wine Europe 3,007 3,253 3,144 production and distribution and ready to drink with domestic arrangements with VOK distribution, Venezuela bulk rum International 5,097 4,952 5,000 Beverages and a licensed brewing and North America wines.
Global Asia Pacifi c 2,636 2,668 2,923 arrangement with Fosters.
In New Beer Supply produces Guinness Global Supply 8,171 8,116 8,238 Zealand, Diageo operates through and other beers in Ireland Corporate and other 2,761 2,792 2,605 third party distributors and has a distributed primarily in Europe and 23,287 24,039 24,144 licensed brewing arrangement North America and beer in with Lion Nathan.
Asia Supply comprises Supply operations of the US wines business were transferred from North America to Singapore Baileys and scotch Global Supply in the year ended 30 June 2010.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 26 of lifestyles.
Diageo sponsors a employees participated in the Environmental, social and number of employee networks 2010 values survey which is the community matters around the world that seek to highest ever response rate.
The Diageo realises that it is an support diverse interest groups.
increasingly important factor for highest level of engagement as The company also seeks to design measured by the survey is termed investors to understand not only and adjust roles to accommodate super engaged.
Diageos its fi financial performance, but also peoples lifestyles, and increasingly aspiration is that 50% or more of its the manner in which it manages encourages fl exible working.
Not and operates its business.
only is this approach to inclusion In the 2010 values survey, 41% of seeks to fulfi l its responsibilities as and diversity consistent with employees measured as super a corporate citizen in a number of Diageos values, it is also believed engaged, which is an increase areas, including examining its to be important for the long term impact on the environment, its of 6% from the 2009 values health of the organisation.
policies relating to employees as of Diageos global policies, Diageo We strongly believe in the well as social and community has emphasised the importance of value of our employees sharing matters.
The company believes treating individuals justly and in a in the companys success and these programmes help build a non-discriminatory manner in all actively encourage employees to foundation for the business to aspects of employment, including become shareholders.
Diageo consults its recruitment, compensation and out opportunities to extend stakeholders to help identify its benefi ts, training, promotion, employee share ownership responsibilities as a corporate transfer and termination.
around the world and in calendar citizen and develop strategies Accordingly, factors not relevant year 2010 the number of countries that address the interests of the to the requirements of a role, operating an employee share plan business and society.
including without limitation race, will have increased from 25 to 32. religion, colour, ethnic or national The launch of Diageos Environment origin, disability, sexual orientation, international sharematch plan in Diageo has set stretching targets gender or marital status, are not 2010 combined with existing to reduce its impact on the considered, and reasonable employee share plans, will further environment.
The Diageo adjustments are considered and extend the opportunity to the executive environmental working if necessary appropriate training majority of employees across a group is responsible for setting provided so that no individual signifi cant number of Diageos environmental policy.
In the year is disadvantaged.
markets to share in the companys ended 30 June 2009, the working Inspirational leadership to growth and success.
As at 30 June group revised and re-issued deliver great results is critical to 2010, 15,785 past and present Diageos environmental policy to the success of the business.
The employees held 0.74% 2009 refl ect the increased ambition the Diageo Leadership Performance 1.2% of Diageos issued ordinary company has for environmental Programme, which was launched share capital.
The policy is in 2007, is a key programme for the Diageo strives to keep its supported by Global Supplys risk organisation.
The programme employees well informed on and management framework, which continued in 2010 with the engaged with the companys sets implementation criteria and participation of 130 new leaders strategy and business goals as a provides a mechanism for in Diageo.
The aim is for Diageo to high priority, focusing on dialogue monitoring compliance.
As stated be recognised for the outstanding and consultation both formal and in Diageos policy, the companys quality of its business leaders and informal on changes that aff ect actions on the environment are their ability to deliver great its employees.
planned in light of prevailing performance for the group.
The review of the scientifi c knowledge and do not Employee engagement is a organisation announced in 2009 depend on having absolute key element of Diageos people has been largely concluded.
The proof of specifi c damage, thus strategy.
Diageos values are objectives of the review to deliver supporting the concept of a embedded in the business and signifi cant cost savings and create precautionary approach.
guide how all employees operate a more eff ective organisation are The release of greenhouse and behave.
A values survey, judged to have been achieved.
gases notably carbon dioxide which includes a measure of There was no signifi cant disruption generated by burning fossil fuels employee engagement, is to business performance as a has an impact on climate change conducted with employees every result of this review.
Further in terms of global temperatures, organisational changes at the local weather patterns and weather year.
Now in its eighth year, this survey provides an annual insight level have since been announced severity which, either directly or into what employees are thinking as Diageo continues to seek indirectly, presents considerable and feeling about the business.
risks both to business and the Consistent with the Diageo value planet.
The risks include impacts The values survey allows Diageo, at group, function and team levels, to of valuing each other where on agriculture on which the assess how the business is tracking people are impacted by a company depends for raw against the long term goals of restructuring programme they materials, disruption of the will be treated with sensitivity and companys operations or those of engaging employees and consistently bringing Diageos dignity and will be supported commercial partners, and changes values to life.
90% of Diageos through the change.
to the nature or distribution of Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 27 Diageos water consumption over the coming years.
It is based is available on Diageos website in large part on the advice at www.
In addition of external stakeholders, on the to reviewing total water usage, targets set in the UNs Millennium Diageo also strives to improve its Development Goals MDGs and effi ciency, monitoring the amount on the experience gained through of water used to produce one litre leading business roundtables on of product packaged.
In the year water resource issues in Africa.
Diageo assumes that the risks from climate ended 30 June 2010, total water The aim of the strategy is to change could be mitigated if the usage decreased as compared optimise Diageos impact on water releases of greenhouse gases were to the prior year, while water resource use by focusing eff orts A reliable supply of water is effi ciency improved meaning that on countries where Diageo has suffi ciently diminished and, as such, has worked for many years essential to Diageos business as fewer litres of water were required a signifi cant presence that face the to reduce direct emissions from water is the main ingredient in to produce each litre of Diageos greatest challenges in meeting fuels and indirect emissions substantially all of Diageos product packaged.
products and is used for cleaning Ongoing improvements Diageo couples these from electricity.
Diageo uses the World and cooling at production sites.
have been identifi ed and initiatives with its community Resources Institute WRI World Water resources are under implemented across a number of programmes designed to increase Business Council for Sustainable pressure from development in sites in the regions.
For example, in local access to safe water as many parts of the world and from Scotland, a process of continuous described in more detail below.
Development WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate climatic changes that may restrict analysis and improvement Accounting and Reporting Standard, their availability in the future, delivered a signifi cant Revised Edition as a basis for impacting not only Diageos improvement in water effi ciency business but also Diageos at the Cameronbridge grain reviewing its emissions and includes the facilities over which business partners and local distillery during the year ended 30 it has operational control in its communities who rely on water June 2010 compared to the prior analysis.
Additional information for their livelihoods.
Replacing the water-intensive to better understand its water pre-cooler at that distillery with with respect to Diageos greenhouse gas footprint is footprint, impact of its water more effi cient equipment available on Diageos website at usage, and how a further delivered immediate positive www.
In the year reduction in impact may be results, but also highlighted the achieved.
Using United Nations role of a boiler feed valve in ended 30 June 2010, Diageos greenhouse gas emissions and WBCSD data, Diageo has reducing water usage.
Automating decreased compared to the prior designated ten of its production this boiler feed valve helped to year.
During the year ended 30 sites as being located in areas deliver a total saving of which are water stressed, approximately 250 million litres of June 2009, Global Supply achieved the Carbon Trust Standard for its identifying them as higher risk in bore water and resulted in savings eff orts in Scotland, an award that terms of having a sustainable of about 25,000 of electricity certifi es that the business there has water supply in the coming years, pumping costs during the fi scal and in Africa, approximately half year.
Similarly, the Diageo bottling measured, managed and reduced its carbon footprint rather than of its production sites are located plant in Huntingwood, Australia offsetting emissions.
Reasons in water stressed areas.
In the implemented an innovative cited for the award were the year ended 30 June 2010, technology invented by a member Diageo specifi cally targeted of the sites Water-Watch team to ongoing reduction of the Scottish businesss carbon emissions reductions in water usage at beer re-use water in vacuum pumps.
through implementation of a production facilities, seeking The invention signifi cantly reduces number of projects at various to drive improvement in water the sites water consumption effi ciency through appropriate and has been implemented at facilities, such as steam pipe installations: new thermostats: and engineering solutions.
several other Diageo sites steam recovery.
During the year Diageo reviews water around the globe.
ended 30 June 2010, Diageo set consumption data from across the In May 2010 Diageo launched a production sites over which it has new water strategy: The Diageo aside a special reserve fund of 10 million specifi cally dedicated to operational control using internally Blueprint.
This will guide Diageos carbon and water reduction developed guidelines, which approach to managing water and projects worldwide.
Diageo spent defi ne water usage based on the protecting water tables in the total amount of water abstracted regions where Diageo operates this money improving metering and monitoring systems and from source such as groundwater, implementing projects to drive surface water or mains less any effi ciency such as fl ash steam clean water provided back to local communities directly from a site recovery at its Scottish malt distilleries, conversion of boilers and water returned for agricultural from diesel to natural gas at the irrigation.
Cooling water George Dickel distillery in abstracted and returned to the same source is excluded from the Tennessee in the United States, and waste heat recovery at the total water used.
information with respect to Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 28 Society and community Community investment, which Diageo takes great care to market in the year ended 30 June 2010 its brands responsibly to adults, amounted to about 1% of Diageos to support programmes and to operating profi t before promote practices and policies exceptional items, is primarily that create a more positive role for focused on providing safe water alcohol in society.
With more than access to local communities, 200 initiatives in over 40 countries supporting skills training to help in the year ended 30 June 2010, disadvantaged people fi nd Diageo works with industry, employment and contributing government and other groups to to organisations that drive local establish high company and economic development.
Most of industry standards on responsible Diageos investment comes from marketing, to invest in its businesses around the world in programmes that aim to minimise the form of cash, in-kind donations alcohol misuse, and to promote and volunteer time, together with eff ective government alcohol grants from the Diageo policies.
Among its many activities, Foundation.
Diageos largest Buchanans scotch in the year ended 30 June 2010 community programmes are whisky grew volume Diageo actively supported Water of Life, which focuses on and net sales and increased spend behind industry initiatives such as the UK bringing sustainable access to safe the Buchanans Forever Campaign for Smarter Drinking drinking water to local concert programme in Latin America.
and ICAP Global Action on communities primarily in Africa, Harmful Drinking.
Diageo also and Learning for Life, which continued to partner and train provides education and vocational Competition retailers on how to prevent training in Latin America and the Diageo competes on the basis underage purchase of alcohol, Caribbean to help enable people of consumer loyalty, quality and launched a bartender training to fi nd employment.
toolkit designed to help the on brands also helped drive In spirits, Diageos major trade address some of the issues awareness and support for its global competitors are Pernod it faces, such as preventing community programmes.
In the Ricard, Bacardi, Fortune Brands underage sale of alcohol, drink year ended 30 June 2010, and Brown-Forman, each of driving and serving intoxicated Buchanans launched its third which has several brands that customers.
In addition, a toolkit on annual fundraiser campaign compete directly with Diageo implementing initiatives against Buchanans Forever to contribute brands.
In addition, Diageo faces drink driving was launched within to Diageos Learning for Life competition from local and Diageo to allow the business to programme and Guinness regional companies in the draw on its experiences of established the Arthur Guinness countries in which it operates.
th successful responsible drinking Fund as part of the Guinness 250 In beer, the Guinness brand campaigns such as Guardian Celebrations.
The Arthur Guinness competes globally as well as on a Angels, Johnnie Walkers Join the Fund has pledged support to regional and local basis with the Pact, Crown Royals Safe Rides social entrepreneurs to help profi le varying between regions sponsorship of NASCAR and Drive contribute to local economic with several competitors, Your Friends.
development across Ireland, including AB InBev, Heineken, Diageo recognises that its Africa, Asia, Great Britain and SABMiller, Coors Brewing Carling success in the future will depend North America.
in part on the prosperity of the In addition to global In wine, the market is communities in which it operates initiatives, Diageo supports fragmented with many and the strength of its relationship involvement by its employees to producers and distributors.
Diageo is benefi t local communities and committed to contributing to takes proactive measures to react those communities by rapidly to natural disasters encouraging local hiring and local aff ecting communities in the sourcing of raw materials when markets in which it operates, most possible, as well as contributing recently delivering food, water through the payment of local and emergency supplies to taxes and community investment.
victims of the earthquake in Haiti.
Supporting long term sustainable Through the employee giving initiatives in the communities programme Giving for Good, where Diageo does business Diageo employees raised enough Johnnie Walker is the advances the development of money to donate 3,500 water worlds leading premium those communities, engages fi lter kits to schools and health spirit by value Impact Databank Top 100 Spirits employees, builds Diageos clinics in Uganda.
by Value, March 2010 and reputation and enhances its increased net sales by 7% relationships with governments in 2010 driven by Latin America and Global Travel.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 29 Research and development Regulations and taxes messages used.
In a number of Business services The overall nature of the groups Diageos worldwide operations countries, television is a prohibited Diageo continues to standardise business does not demand are subject to extensive regulatory medium for spirits brands and in its key business activities with substantial expenditure on requirements regarding other countries, television customers, consumers, suppliers research and development.
production, product liability, advertising, while permitted, is and the processes that summarise However, the group has ongoing distribution, importation, carefully regulated.
and report fi financial performance.
programmes for developing new marketing, promotion, sales, Spirits, beer and wine are also In that regard, global processes drinks products.
Innovation forms pricing, labelling, packaging, regulated in distribution.
In many have been designed, built and an important part of Diageos advertising, labour, pensions, countries, alcohol may only be implemented across a number of growth strategy, playing a key compliance and control systems sold through licensed outlets, markets and operational entities.
role in positioning its brands for and environmental issues.
In the both on and off trade, varying Diageo uses shared services continued growth.
The strength United States, the beverage from government or state operations to deliver transaction and depth of Diageos brand range alcohol industry is subject to strict operated monopoly outlets for processing and certain central provide solid platforms from federal and state government example, Canada, Norway and fi finance activities, using captive which to drive innovation, regulations covering virtually every certain US states to the common and outsourced centres.
A captive while insights into shopper aspect of its operations, including system of licensed on trade outlets business service centre in trends and changing consumer production, distribution, for example, licensed bars and Budapest, Hungary, performs habits inform product and marketing, promotion, sales, restaurants which prevails in various process tasks for markets packaging development.
pricing, labelling, packaging much of the western world for and operational entities.
Diageo In the year ended 30 June and advertising.
example, most US states and the uses third party service centres in 2010, the groups research and Spirits, beer and wine are European Union.
In about Manila, Shanghai and Bucharest development expenditure subject to national import and one-third of the states in the to perform these tasks for basic amounted to 13 million 2009 excise duties in many markets United States, price changes processes.
Certain central fi finance 17 million: 2008 17 million.
Most countries must be fi led or published 30 activities, including elements of Research and development impose excise duties on beverage days to three months, depending group fi financial planning and expenditure is generally alcohol products, although the on the state, before they reporting and treasury, are written off in the year in which form of such taxation varies become eff ective.
performed in the business service it is incurred.
signifi cantly from a simple Labelling of beverage alcohol centre in Budapest.
application to units of alcohol by products is also regulated in many Trademarks volume, to advanced systems markets, varying from health Associates Diageo produces and distributes based on imported or wholesale warning labels to importer Diageos principal associate is branded goods and is therefore value of the product.
Several identifi cation, alcohol strength Mot Hennessy.
It also owns shares substantially dependent on the countries impose additional and other consumer information.
in a number of other associates.
maintenance and protection of its import duty on distilled spirits, As well as producer, importer or In the year ended 30 June 2010, the trademarks.
All brand names often discriminating between bottler identifi cation, specifi c share of profi ts of associates after mentioned in this document are categories such as scotch whisky warning statements related to the tax was 142 million 2009 164 trademarks.
The group also holds or bourbon in the rate of such risks of drinking beverage alcohol million: 2008 176 million, of numerous licences and trade tariff s. Within the European Union, products are required to be which Mot Hennessy accounted secrets, as well as having such products are subject to included on all beverage alcohol for 134 million 2009 151 substantial trade knowledge diff erent rates of excise duty in products sold in the United States million: 2008 160 million.
The group each country, but within an overall and in other countries where Diageo owns 34% of Mot believes that its signifi cant European Union framework, there Diageo operates.
Following the Hennessy, the spirits and wine trademarks are registered and or are minimum rates of excise duties end of the voluntary restrictions subsidiary of LVMH Mot otherwise protected insofar as that can be applied.
on television advertising of spirits Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA legal protections are available in Import and excise duties can in the United States, Diageo and LVMH.
LVMH is based in France all material respects in its most have a signifi cant impact on the other spirits companies have been and is listed on the Paris Stock important markets.
Diageo also fi final pricing of Diageos products advertising products on the air on Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also owns valuable patents and trade to consumers.
These duties have local cable television stations.
based in France and is a producer secrets for technology and takes an impact on the competitive Expressions of political concern and exporter of a number of all reasonable steps to protect position as compared to other signify the uncertain future of brands in its main business areas these rights.
The group devotes beverage alcohol products of champagne and cognac.
Its resources to encouraging the advertising on network television principal champagne brands are equitable taxation treatment of all in the United States.
Any Mot & Chandon including Dom beverage alcohol categories and prohibitions on advertising or Prignon, Veuve Clicquot and to reducing government-imposed marketing could have an adverse Mercier, all of which are included barriers to fair trading.
impact on sales of the group.
in the top 10 champagne brands Advertising, marketing and Regulatory decisions and worldwide by volume.
Mot sales of alcohol are subject to changes in the legal and regulatory Hennessy also owns Hennessy, various restrictions in markets environment could increase which is the top cognac brand around the world.
These range Diageos costs and liabilities or worldwide by volume, and from a complete prohibition of impact on its business activities.
alcohol in certain countries and cultures, through the prohibition of the import of spirits, wine and beer, to restrictions on the advertising style, media and
