Diageo Annual Report 2010 6 Outstanding brands J&B continued to be aff ected by the decline in the spirits market in Iberia.
Buchanans and Old Parr performed well in Latin America.
Vodka was the most competitive category in the developed markets.
In North Pace and change is America, Smirnoff net sales now faster than ever.
declined mainly due to lapping The strength and the increase in stock levels of the breadth of our brand prior year.
Eff ective marketing The John Walker, an ultra campaigns, including the Be range, built over many deluxe variant of Johnnie There programme, drove share Walker, has had successful Diageo Great Britain joined years, equips us to initial launches in Asia gains in the United States and with Coca-Cola Enterprises Pacifi c and Global Travel.
be successful and to market popular spirit and volume grew ahead of net sales mixer combinations ahead in Great Britain through continue to grow.
In the Brand performance Andy Fennell, brands largest developing Very strong growth of Captain Chief marketing offi cer Stronger performance in scotch markets of Brazil and South Morgan in Europe and in the second half resulted in Africa, net sales grew solidly.
International off set the net sales full year net sales growth of 5%.
Diageos super ultra premium decline in North America.
In the Strong growth in developing vodkas Ketel One and Croc United States, growth of the rum 3% markets was the key driver of remained in strong growth.
category slowed during the year Increase in overall Johnnie Walker brand Baileys grew volume and but Captain Morgan benefi ted marketing spend performance.
Johnnie Walker net sales in a strong second half from successful innovations and Black Label had double-digit net performance due to new increased marketing spend, sales growth driven by Global fl avours and greater on shelf and grew share.
Rum brands Travel and Middle East, Latin visibility, but this did not off set grew well, in particular Cacique America and South East Asia.
a diffi cult start to the year.
o o o o N 1 N 1 N 1 N 1 Johnnie Walker is Smirnoff is Tanqueray is No1 Baileys is No1 No1 in the global No1 in the global in the US imported in the global scotch whisky category vodka category gin segment liqueur category Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Source: Impact Databank Top 100 Premium Spirits February 2010, September and December 2009 Outstanding brands 7 The ongoing weakness of the Marketing spend Innovation North American on trade channel Marketing spend was up 3% Innovation remains a key element and aggressive pricing from driven by major increases in of Diageos organic growth proven campaigns behind competitors led to a sharp decline strategy, and in the year it delivered in Jose Cuervo.
The new variant Diageos most important brands another strong performance.
The Especial Silver continued to and categories in the second overall approach remains simple: perform well and is now the half.
This resulted in double-digit to innovate on core brands, increases in full year spend fastest growing silver tequila in to deliver ideas rooted in deep the US off trade.
behind vodka and rum consumer and shopper insight.
Double-digit net sales categories, and a signifi cant Key areas of focus for innovation growth of Tanqueray in Spain increase in spend behind scotch, include: using innovation to Flavour innovation particularly Johnnie Walker in and Great Britain only partially bring new premium off erings to across our vodka off set net sales decline in International.
Marketing spend consumers, as exemplifi ed by the brands, such as Croc Red Berry and Croc North America.
for Baileys was reduced as part of success of our launches on the Coconut, have helped Guinness posted fl at net the current review of the brands Johnnie Walker brand range like to drive innovation programme, while a decrease in sales with strong double-digit The John Walker: using innovation performance in North America.
growth in South East Asia broadly Guinness spend in Europe was in developing markets to increase off setting a 2% decline in Europe broadly off set by increases in the consumer accessibility of Diageo and fl at net sales in Africa.
Spend was down easier for shoppers to fi nd, brands and to target new Britain and Ireland, Guinness 2% on ready to drink and up 7% choose and buy products in occasions, such as canned beer once again gained share but net on wine.
the spirits category, forming and premix spirits in Africa: and sales declined as a result of the partnerships with customers maintaining brand relevance and continued decline of beer in Customer marketing which helped them to off er the consumer interest in developed those markets.
While Guinness Diageo continued to invest to right range of products, the markets through innovation across performance slowed in Africa as enhance the capabilities of its appropriate amount of shelf a broad range of occasions and some consumers chose to trade customer marketing function space and providing navigation categories as demonstrated by down to less expensive products, which now consists of about through signage.
fl avour innovations on Croc Diageos local lager brands 500 people in over 30 countries Coconut and Red Berry in notably Harp and Tusker had covering over 80% of Diageos North America.
Diageo made it o o o o N 1 N 1 N 2 N 4 Jose Cuervo is Guinness is Captain Morgan J&B is No4 in the No1 in the global No1 in the global is No2 in the global global scotch tequila category stout category rum category whisky category
