Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 73 Commodity price risk The group uses long term purchase and commodity futures contracts to hedge against price risk in certain commodities.
Long term purchase contracts are used to secure prices with suppliers to protect against volatility in commodity prices.
All commodity futures contracts hedge a projected future purchase of raw material.
Commodity futures contracts are held in the balance sheet at fair value.
To the extent that they are considered an eff ective hedge, the fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction aff ects the income statement.
Realised net losses recognised in the income statement in the year ended 30 June 2010 were nil 2009 5 million.
There are no open deals on the balance sheet at 30 June 2010 2009 nil.
Insurance The group purchases insurance for commercial or, where required, for legal or contractual reasons.
In addition, the group retains insurable risk where external insurance is not considered an economic means of mitigating these risks.
Fair value measurements This section on fair value measurement forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The adoption of the amendment to IFRS 7 in the year ended 30 June 2010 requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements of fi financial instruments through the use of a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the valuation techniques used in fair value calculations.
The levels can be broadly described as follows: Level 1 use of unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 use of observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets: and Level 3 use of inputs not based on observable market data but refl ecting managements own assumptions about pricing the asset or liability.
Diageo maintains policies and procedures to value instruments using the most relevant data available.
If there are multiple inputs available that fall into diff erent levels of the hierarchy, the instrument is categorised on the basis of the lowest level input.
Derivatives and other fi financial liabilities Interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and foreign currency forwards and swaps are valued in the market using discounted cash fl ow techniques.
These techniques incorporate inputs at levels 1 and 2, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
These market inputs are used in the discounted cash fl ow calculation incorporating the instruments term, notional amount and discount rate, and taking credit risk into account.
As signifi cant inputs to the valuation are observable in the markets, these instruments are categorised as level 2 in the hierarchy.
The put option to acquire the remaining equity stake in Ketel One Worldwide is classifi ed as a derivative fi financial liability with changes in fair value included in operating profi t. As this valuation of the option uses assumptions not observable in the market, it is categorised as a level 3 instrument in the fair value hierarchy.
The groups fi financial assets and liabilities, excluding fi finance lease liabilities, measured at fair value at 30 June 2010 are categorised as follows: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Assets Derivative assets 570 570 Total assets 570 570 Liabilities Derivative liabilities 229 23 252 Other fi financial liabilities 28 28 Total liabilities 229 51 280 The movements in level 3 instruments, measured on a recurring basis, for the year ended 30 June 2010 are as follows: Other Total Derivative fi financial level 3 liabilities liabilities instruments million million million At 30 June 2009 40 40 Deferred consideration payable 26 26 Net gains losses included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 17 2 15 At 30 June 2010 23 28 51
