Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 34 Diageos operations and Diageo may also be adversely Diageo may not be able order to enforce judgements of US fi financial results may be impacted by fl uctuations in to protect its intellectual courts against Diageo or these adversely aff ected by interest rates, mainly through an property rights persons based on the civil liability movements in the value of its increased interest expense.
To Given the importance of brand provisions of the US federal pension funds, fl uctuations in partly delay any adverse impact recognition to its business, Diageo securities laws.
There is doubt as to exchange rates and fl uctuations from interest rate movements, the has invested considerable eff ort in the enforceability in England and in interest rates groups policy is to maintain fi xed protecting its intellectual property Wales, in original actions or in Diageo has signifi cant pension rate borrowings within a band of rights, including trademark actions for enforcement of funds.
These funds may be 40% to 60% of projected net registration and domain names.
judgements of US courts, of civil aff ected by, among other things, borrowings, and the overall net Diageos patents cover some of its liabilities solely based on the US the performance of assets owned borrowings portfolio is managed process technology, including federal securities laws.
by these plans, the underlying according to a duration measure.
some aspects of its bottle marking actuarial assumptions used to See Business review Risk technology.
Diageo also uses Cautionary statement calculate the surplus or defi cit in management.
security measures and concerning forwardthe plans, in particular the discount agreements to protect its looking statements rate and long term infl ation rates Diageos operations may be confi dential information and trade used to calculate the liabilities of adversely aff ected by failure secrets.
However, Diageo cannot This document contains the pension funds, and any to maintain or renegotiate be certain that the steps it has forward-looking statements.
changes in applicable laws and distribution, supply, taken will be suffi cient or that third These statements can be regulations.
If there are signifi cant manufacturing or licence parties will not infringe on or identifi ed by the fact that they do declines in fi financial markets and agreements on favourable terms misappropriate its intellectual not relate only to historical or or a deterioration in the value of Diageos business has a number property rights in its brands or current facts.
In particular, fund assets or changes in discount of distribution, supply, products.
Moreover, some of the forward-looking statements rates or infl ation rates, Diageo may manufacturing or licence countries in which Diageo include all statements that express need to make signifi cant agreements for brands owned by operates off er less intellectual forecasts, expectations, plans, contributions to the pension funds it or by other companies.
These property protection than Europe outlook and projections with in the future.
Furthermore, if the agreements vary depending on or North America.
Given the respect to future matters, market values of the assets held by the particular brand, but tend to attractiveness of Diageos brands including trends in results of Diageos pension funds decline, or be for a fi xed number of years.
to consumers, it is not uncommon operations, margins, growth rates, if the valuations of those assets by There can be no assurance that for counterfeit products to be overall market trends, the impact the pension trustees decline, Diageo will be able to renegotiate manufactured.
Diageo cannot be of interest or exchange rates, the pension expenses may increase its rights on favourable terms certain that the steps it takes to availability or cost of fi nancing to and, as a result, could materially when they expire or that these assist the authorities to prevent, Diageo, anticipated cost savings or adversely aff ect Diageos fi financial agreements will not be detect and eliminate counterfeit synergies, the completion of position.
There is no assurance that terminated.
Failure to renew these products will be eff ective in Diageos strategic transactions and interest rates or infl ation rates will agreements on favourable terms preventing material loss of profi ts restructuring programmes, remain constant or that pension could have an adverse impact on or erosion of brand equity anticipated tax rates, expected fund assets can earn the assumed Diageos sales and operating resulting from lower quality or cash payments, outcomes of rate of return annually, and profi t. In addition, Diageos sales even dangerous counterfeit litigation and general economic Diageos actual experience may be and operating profi t may be product reaching the market.
By their nature, signifi cantly more negative.
adversely aff ected by any disputes Diageo is unable to protect its forward-looking statements Diageo may be adversely aff ected with distributors of its products or intellectual property rights against involve risk and uncertainty by fl uctuations in exchange rates.
with suppliers of raw materials.
infringement or misappropriation, because they relate to events and The results of operations of Diageo this could materially harm its future depend on circumstances that will are accounted for in pounds fi financial results and ability to occur in the future.
Approximately 36% of develop its business.
number of factors that could cause sales in the year ended 30 June actual results and developments 2010 were in US dollars, It may be diffi cult to eff ect to diff er materially from those approximately 17% were in euros service of US process and enforce expressed or implied by these and approximately 12% were in US legal process against the forward-looking statements, sterling.
Movements in exchange directors of Diageo including factors that are outside rates used to translate foreign Diageo is a public limited Diageos control.
currencies into pounds sterling company incorporated under the These factors include, but are not may have a signifi cant impact on laws of England and Wales.
The limited to: Diageos reported results of majority of Diageos directors and global and regional economic operations from year to year.
offi cers, and some of the experts downturns: named in this document, reside increased competitive product outside of the United States, and pricing pressures and principally in the United Kingdom.
unanticipated actions by A substantial portion of Diageos competitors that could impact assets, and the assets of such on Diageos market share, persons, are located outside of the increase expenses and hinder United States.
Therefore, it may not growth potential: be possible to eff ect service of the eff ects of Diageos strategic process within the United States focus on premium drinks, the upon Diageo or these persons in Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 35 eff ects of business levels of marketing, in Diageo plc or an invitation or combinations, partnerships, promotional and innovation inducement to engage in any joint ventures, acquisitions or expenditure by Diageo and other investment activities.
disposals, existing or future, its competitors: This document includes and the ability to realise renewal of supply, distribution, information about Diageos debt expected synergies and or manufacturing or licence rating.
A security rating is not a cost savings: agreements on favourable recommendation to buy, sell Diageos ability to complete terms when they expire: or hold securities and may be existing or future business termination of existing subject to revision or withdrawal combinations, restructuring distribution or licence at any time by the assigning rating programmes, acquisitions manufacturing rights on its organisation.
Each rating should and disposals: brands and agency brands: be evaluated independently of legal and regulatory disruption to production any other rating.
developments, including facilities or business service Past performance cannot changes in regulations centres, and systems change be relied upon as a guide to regarding consumption of, programmes, existing or future performance.
or advertising for, beverage future, and the ability to alcohol, changes in tax law derive expected benefi ts including tax rates or from such programmes: accounting standards, technological developments changes in taxation that may aff ect the distribution requirements, such as the of products or impede Diageos impact of excise tax increases ability to protect its intellectual with respect to the business, property rights: and and changes in environmental changes in fi financial and equity laws, health regulations markets, including signifi cant and laws governing labour interest rate and foreign and pensions: currency exchange rate developments in any litigation fl uctuations and changes in or other similar proceedings the cost of capital, which may directed at the drinks and reduce or eliminate Diageos spirits industry generally or access to or increase the cost of at Diageo in particular, or the fi nancing or which may aff ect impact of a product recall Diageos fi financial results.
or product liability claim on Diageos profi tability All oral and written forwardor reputation: looking statements made on or developments in the after the date of this document Colombian litigation, Turkish and attributable to Diageo are customs litigation, SEC expressly qualifi ed in their investigation, Korean customs entirety by the above factors litigation or any similar and those described in Business proceedings: description Risk factors.
Any changes in consumer forward-looking statements preferences and tastes, made by or on behalf of Diageo demographic trends or speak only as of the date they are perceptions about health made.
Diageo does not related issues, or undertake to update forwardcontamination, counterfeiting looking statements to refl ect any or other circumstances which changes in Diageos expectations could harm the integrity with regard thereto or any or sales of Diageos brands: changes in events, conditions or changes in the cost or supply circumstances on which any such of raw materials, labour statement is based.
The reader and or energy: should, however, consult any changes in political or additional disclosures that economic conditions in Diageo may make in any countries and markets in which documents which it publishes Diageo operates, including and or fi les with the US Securities changes in levels of consumer and Exchange Commission.
All spending, failure of customer, readers, wherever located, should supplier and fi financial take note of these disclosures.
counterparties or imposition The information in this document of import, investment or does not constitute an off er to currency restrictions: sell or an invitation to buy shares Diageo Annual Report 2010 36 Business review contents Diageo combines the benefi ts 37 Introduction 39 Operating results 2010 of global scale with local insight.
compared with 2009 It acts with fl air and agility to 54 Operating results 2009 delight consumers with compared with 2008 established brand favourites 67 Trend information 67 Liquidity and capital resources and new innovations.
70 Contractual obligations 71 Offbalance sheet arrangements Diageo has brands rich in heritage 71 Risk management which have been built on strong 73 Fair value measurements marketing fundamentals.
Its role is to 74 Market risk sensitivity analysis nurture these brands and hand them 74 Critical accounting policies over to the next generation of brand 75 New accounting standards builders in strong health.
Diageo executes with fl air at a global level yet is informed by local insights and market knowledge.
The speed of the change in consumer attitudes and trends in the modern world means it operates with pace and agility while maintaining consistency in standards.
com World class marketing capability
