Diageo Annual Report 2010 Accounting policies 112 of the group liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
Any diff erences between the expected return on assets and that actually achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Any recognised asset is limited to any future refunds from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defi ned contribution plans are charged to operating profi t as incurred.
Financial statements Capitalisation of fi finance costs 105 Finance costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, being an asset that necessarily takes Auditors report in a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are added to the cost of that asset.
All other fi finance costs are respect of the Group recognised as charges in the income statement for the period in which they are incurred.
106 Consolidated Exceptional items income statement Exceptional items are those that in managements judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Such items are 107 Consolidated included within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the consolidated statement of fi financial statements or on the face of the consolidated income statement.
comprehensive income Foreign currencies 108 Consolidated Items included in the fi financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of balance sheet the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated fi financial statements are 109 presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
Consolidated The income statements and cash fl ows of overseas entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, statement of other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
The adjustment to closing rates is taken changes in equity to reserves.
110 Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Exchange diff erences arising on the re-translation at closing rates of the opening Consolidated statement of balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to reserves, as are exchange diff erences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and cash fl ows fi financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are eff ective.
Tax charges and credits arising on such 111 items are also taken to reserves.
Other exchange diff erences are taken to the income statement.
Accounting policies The results of operations in hyperinfl ationary economies are adjusted to refl ect the changes in the purchasing power of the local of the group market currency of the entity before being translated to sterling.
115 Notes to the Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
If hedged forward, the impact consolidated of hedging is recognised, where permitted, under hedge accounting refer to accounting policy for derivative fi financial instruments.
fi financial statements 161 Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets Auditors report in When the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the groups share of the net assets acquired, the diff erence is respect of the company treated as purchased goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was eliminated against reserves, and this goodwill 162 has not been restated.
Goodwill arising subsequent to 1 July 1998 has been capitalised.
Company balance sheet Acquired brands and other intangible assets are recognised when they are controlled through contractual or other legal rights, 163 or are separable from the rest of the business, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
Accounting policies Intangible assets that are regarded as having limited useful economic lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives of the company and reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill 164 and intangible assets that are regarded as having indefi nite useful economic lives are not amortised.
These assets are reviewed for Notes to the company fi financial statements impairment at least annually or when there is an indication that the assets may be impaired.
To ensure that assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts, the impairment reviews compare the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the 167 Principal group recoverable amount is the value in use.
Amortisation and any impairment writedowns are charged to other operating expenses in the companies income statement.
Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis to estimated residual value over its expected useful life.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives are up to fi five years.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at cost less depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives, and these values and lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives fall within the following ranges: industrial and other buildings 10 to 50 years: plant and machinery 5 to 25 years: fi xtures and fi ttings 5 to 10 years: casks and containers 15 to 20 years: and returnable bottles and crates 5 to 10 years.
Reviews are carried out if there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that property, plant and equipment are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a fi finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
