Group Accounts 47 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Prior year adjustment resulting from standards effective in 2010 The Group have revised the fair value of a prior year acquisition and accordingly as a result of IFRS 3 Revised becoming effective in the period, the December 2009 balance sheet has been restated, by increasing goodwill by 0.3 million and by increasing trade and other payables by the same amount.
IFRS 3 Revised has other effects which do not affect the prior year balance sheet.
Basis of preparation European law requires that the Groups consolidated financial statements for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 are prepared in accordance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of pensions and financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
This will also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company including all of its subsidiary entities after eliminating internal transactions.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from the effective date of control using the acquisition method of accounting.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are of a nonrecurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately.
Prearranged funeral plan trusts The three prearranged funeral plan trusts were not consolidated during the period as they were not controlled by the Group.
Specifically, Article 60 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Regulated Activities Order 2001 requires a majority of the managing trustees to be independent of the Group.
Furthermore, the Group did not direct their financial and operating policies, nor did it have substantially all of the risks and rewards of their ownership.
Revenue Revenue from funeral operations comprises the amount recoverable from customers for the provision of funerals, income from crematoria and other services, to the extent that those services have been performed or the goods supplied.
Revenues include amounts receivable from the prearranged funeral plan trusts for funerals performed by the Group for prearranged funeral plan members.
Income from memorial sales is recognised at the point of sale, to the extent that the goods have been supplied.
Costs of maintaining memorials are recognised as incurred.
The accounting policies for recognising turnover for prearranged funeral plans are stated below.
The Group pays certain disbursements such as crematoria fees, burial plots, ministers fees and doctors fees on behalf of its clients.
These amounts are recovered as part of the invoicing process.
However, these amounts are not included within net revenues as they are simply passed on to the customer at cost.
The Group views the United Kingdom as one geographical segment, given each local business exhibits similar long term characteristics.
All amounts are exclusive of VAT.
Group Accounts 48 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued Prearranged funeral plans Trust plans The Group markets and sells prearranged funeral plans, monies received from selling funeral plans being held and controlled by independent prearranged funeral plan trusts the Trusts.
The responsibility for the ultimate performance of funerals is allocated to funeral directors, who are selected by the beneficiary of the plan and some of whom are not owned by the Group.
The Group receives monies from the Trusts in respect of the following transactions: A marketing and administration fee in respect of each plan sold.
The marketing element is only refundable in the event that the plan is subsequently cancelled.
A provision is made for cancellations based on historical experiences, where material, to cover the estimated marketing element refundable to the Trusts.
Marketing and administration fees are included in Group revenue when the related plan is sold less the provision for refunds arising on cancellations: and Further contributions are also received from the Trusts in return for the provision of general ongoing administrative services supplied to the Trusts.
These contributions are included in Group revenue for the period to which they relate.
All costs in respect of the marketing and administration of the prearranged funeral plans are expensed in the Group income statement as incurred.
From time to time, the Group receives monies from certain of the Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities in respect of current members Recoveries.
All Recoveries are recognised as other operating income in the period in which the trustees approve their payment.
The Group makes payments on behalf of the Trusts relating to the ongoing overheads of the Trusts, refunds to members of the Trusts in event of cancellation, and the payments made to third party funeral directors when the funeral is ultimately performed.
All such payments are reimbursed in full by the Trusts on demand, in accordance with the terms of the relevant Trusts deed.
Neither the sales value of plans nor the costs of providing funerals are recognised in the financial statements of the Group when a prearranged funeral plan is sold.
Each Dignity marketing company contractually guarantees with the customer of a prearranged funeral plan that i if the customer chooses to cancel their selected funeral plan, a full refund will be made to the customer of all monies paid in respect thereof less in certain cases an administration fee payable to the relevant Dignity marketing company : ii the funeral directors services as selected by the customer will be provided regardless of price rises in the future: and iii for certain plans sold, specific disbursements will be provided regardless of price rises in the future.
Insurance plans The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies, in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
A commission is paid when the policy is charged to the Group.
As this commission is fully refundable if the Group does not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a debtor and expensed when the funeral is performed.
In the event of death of the policyholder, the Group makes an agreed payment to the nominated funeral director and a debtor is recognised.
At this time a commission fee is recognised as turnover.
All monies are reclaimed in full from the life insurance company.
Sharebased payments The Group issues equity settled sharebased payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they consider to be the most appropriate to value each class of award, which include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The valuations take into account factors such as nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straightline basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Group Accounts 49 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period increased by the effects of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares primarily share options.
Underlying Earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing the underlying profit after tax by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration for subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair values of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is capitalised and stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cashgenerating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The business and subsidiaries acquired are generally combined with existing operations in the year of acquisition, or the year thereafter and are therefore only considered to be separate cashgenerating units during this time.
Intangible assets trade names Intangible trade names are recognised as assets at the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire them and are carried at historical cost less provisions for amortisation and impairment.
When acquired as part of a business combination the fair value is calculated by reference to the estimated incremental cash flows expected to arise by virtue of the trade name being wellestablished.
Amortisation is provided from the date of acquisition so as to writeoff the asset on a straightline basis over the term of its useful life.
Where there are indicators that a trade name has an indefinite life then these assets are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The factors that indicate an indefinite life of trade names acquired include the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a wellestablished market with inelastic demand, the conservative nature of the UK funeral industry that acts as a barrier to entry for new trade names, and the Groups track record for actively monitoring and relocating trade names to combat shifting demographics.
In addition, when allocating a useful life to acquired trade names, the following matters are considered: The strength of the trade name in its local environment which is assessed by reference to relative market share and anticipated profitability: The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a trade names life such as competition and shifting demographics and the Groups ability to combat these: The length of time, prior to acquisition, for which trade has been conducted under the name acquired: and The likely support the Group will give to the name in its local environment through marketing and promotion, maintaining community awareness etc.
The useful lives of all capitalised trade names are considered to be indefinite and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Intangible assets noncompete contracts Noncompete contracts arising from business combinations are capitalised at the fair value, which is calculated as the present value of any consideration paid discounted at the Groups cost of capital.
All costs are amortised over the term of the relevant agreement on a straightline basis.
Intangible assets software Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development of computer systems including websites is recognised if and only if the costs are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products, controlled by the Group and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
All other costs incurred in research or development are expensed as incurred.
Capitalised costs will include, where appropriate, directly attributable payroll costs and a portion of direct overheads.
Costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to eight years using the straightline method.
Intangible assets use of third party brand The Group has a marketing agreement with Age UK Enterprises Limited, giving rights to market prearranged funeral plans under the Age UK brand.
The value of this right has been recognised as a separate intangible asset.
This asset is being amortised over twenty years on a straightline basis, recognising that each years additional marketing activity generates incremental revenues and profits to the Group for at least the following twenty years.
Group Accounts 50 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes, where appropriate, directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each asset to its present location and condition.
Depreciation is charged excluding freehold land and assets in the course of construction so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual value, over their expected useful lives using the straightline method.
The bases and annual depreciation rates in use for the various classes of assets are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2% 10% Short leasehold buildings Over term of lease Motor vehicles 11% 20% Computers 20% Other plant and equipment 5% 33% Fixtures and fittings 15% Freehold land is not depreciated on the basis that land has an unlimited life.
Where the historical cost of land and buildings cannot be split, the Directors have estimated that the historical cost attributable to land is one third of the original cost of acquiring the land and buildings.
This estimate is regularly reviewed.
Major renovations of the Groups trading premises and crematory relinings are depreciated over the remaining life of the related asset or to the estimated date of the next major renovation or cremator relining, whichever is sooner.
Asset lives and residual values for each class of asset are reviewed annually.
Repairs and renewals All repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement unless they represent an enhancement to the original asset.
Property, plant and equipment held under leases When assets are financed by leasing agreements, where the risks and rewards are substantially transferred to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate on the outstanding lease obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged to the income statement.
Profit on sale of fixed assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within profit on sale of fixed assets in the statement of comprehensive income.
Borrowing costs If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over a long period, the interest incurred on borrowed capital up to the date of completion is capitalised as part of cost of construction in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
Impairment of assets The carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life e. g. goodwill are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
For goodwill this is considered at a business segment level as that is the level at which the return on assets acquired is monitored.
For other intangibles principally trade names this is considered at a regional level for each business segment as this is the level where cash inflows are largely independent.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future discounted cash flows of the cashgenerating unit are estimated, based on latest management expectations for the following year and an annual growth rate in subsequent years.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular segment and compared to the carrying value of the relevant asset.
Any impairment in the value of an asset below its carrying value is charged to the income statement within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Group Accounts 51 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Inventories Inventories, which comprise funeral supplies and monumental masonry, are stated at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Cost includes all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Fair value less costs to sell is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred in completion and sale.
Taxation The tax charge for the period includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the period and after making adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its associated tax basis or where the carrying value of a liability is less than its associated tax basis.
Deferred tax is provided for any differences that exist between the tax base and accounting base of intangibles arising from a business combination that does not involve the acquisition of a subsidiary.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a nondiscounted basis.
Pensions The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short term asset or liability.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing the benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit.
The expected return on plan assets less the interest arising on the pension liabilities is presented within net finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the consolidated income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension plan.
The rate of return is determined by identifying an appropriate rate of return for each class of asset held in conjunction with the Groups professional adviser.
The retirement benefit net asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value of any relevant scheme assets net of the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost.
The discount rate applied in arriving at the present value represents yields on high quality corporate bonds in a similar economic environment with lives similar to the maturity of the pension liabilities.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company or the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions other than deferred tax are discounted where the present value of the provision is materially different to the undiscounted value.
The unwinding of discounts is included within finance costs.
Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
In accordance with IFRS 2, sharebased payment, the trusts assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet within share capital and reserves.
Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when paid.
Group Accounts 52 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions recognised in the income statement are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate on the date the transaction took place.
Financial instruments Borrowings All borrowings are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of transaction costs.
The transaction costs, interest payable and premium on debt finance are charged credited to the income statement, as finance costs income, on a constantyield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where it is more likely than not that the lender will require earlier repayment using the effective interest method.
Early termination costs on borrowings Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of borrowings are writtenoff to the income statement as incurred.
Interest rate swaps The Group currently uses several types of financial instruments as part of an overall interest rate risk management strategy.
It does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes.
Interest rate risk associated with net debt is managed by using a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings and financial liabilities.
The cash flows from, and losses arising on terminations of, these contracts are recognised as cash flows from operating activities.
See note 16 e for further information.
Trade receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment is established based on historical experience.
When a trade receivable is not collectable it is writtenoff against the allowance account.
Subsequent recovery of amounts previously writtenoff are credited against administration expenses in the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
Critical accounting estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The most sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements are in the areas of assessing the recoverability of receivables, postretirement benefits, the recognition and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Provision for doubtful trade receivables Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired.
Within each division, assessment is made of the recoverability of trade receivables based on a range of factors including the age of the receivable and the type of services provided.
The provision is assessed monthly against actual experience of irrecoverable accounts and adjusted if appropriate.
Pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme that is accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial statements.
These actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates.
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used would affect the balance sheet and income statement.
The Group considers that the most significant assumptions are the discount rate and the inflation rate.
See note 28 for further details.
"Goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1 ""Impairment of assets""."
The recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units have been determined based on valueinuse calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary from those calculated.
See note 9 for further details.
"Group Accounts 53 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Other intangible assets The decision process to ascertain whether trade names will have an indefinite life are detailed in note 1 ""Intangible assets trade names""."
These assets with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on valueinuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 IFRS 2 amendment, Group cashsettled sharebased payment transaction, effective 1 January 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
The new guidance has not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, effective 1 January 2010.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, any subsequent fair value adjustments are to be recorded in the period of acquisition, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently remeasured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree either at fair value which the Group has adopted, or at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The Group has expensed all acquisitionrelated costs.
IFRS 5 amendment, Noncurrent assets heldforsale and discontinued operations, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that all of a subsidiary's assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if a partial disposal results in loss of control.
This standard has no impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment provides clarification that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or noncurrent.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as noncurrent provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
This standard has no impact the Groups financial statements.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, effective 1 July 2010.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with noncontrolling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cashgenerating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
This has no impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets, effective 1 July 2009.
The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination and it permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
This has not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement on eligible hedged items, effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment makes two significant changes.
It prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of a fixed rate debt.
It also prohibits including time value in the onesided hedged risk when designating options as hedges.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates, effective 1 January 2010.
This interpretation clarifies which standard IAS 18, Revenue, or IAS 11, Construction contracts should be applied to particular transactions and is likely to mean that IAS 18 will be applied to a wider range of transactions.
Entities that have previously recognised revenue from residential real estate sales under IAS 11 will be the most significantly affected and will probably be required to apply IAS 18.
This has no impact on the Group.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment states that, in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the group, including the foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied.
Group Accounts 54 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued IFRIC 17, Distribution of noncash assets to owners, effective 1 July 2010.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes noncash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers, effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2009 were issued in April 2009.
The effective dates vary standard by standard but most are effective 1 January 2010.
The only improvement applicable to the Group in 2010 is IAS 17, Leases.
This improvement has no impact on the Groups financial statements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 31 December 2010 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted: IFRS 9 Financial instruments to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
This standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2013 subject to endorsement by the EU.
The impact of this standard is currently being assessed.
IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures effective 1 January 2011, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
When the revised standard is applied the Group and the parent will need to disclose any transactions between its subsidiaries and its associates.
This is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation on classification or rights issues, effective 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues rights, options or warrants that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
This amendment has no impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, effective 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by an entity when the term of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability.
This is not expected to have any impact on the Group.
Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement, amendments to IFRIC 14.
The amendments correct an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14, IAS 19, the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
The amendments are effective for periods beginning 1 January 2011.
This is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
Group Accounts 55 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2 Financial risk management The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cash generative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Market risk Currency risk All the Groups financial assets and liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
The Group purchases minimal amounts from overseas.
Accordingly, exposure to currency fluctuations are not significant and therefore not actively managed.
Interest rate risk and other price risk The Groups main borrowings consist of Class A and B Secured Notes, which are at fixed interest rates, resulting in a predetermined repayment profile.
The fair value of these financial instruments is based on underlying gilt prices and yield spreads based on the markets current view of the risk profile of the Secured Notes.
Consequently, the fair value of these instruments will fluctuate.
Fair values are not relevant to the Group unless it was to change its funding strategy and repay the Secured Notes early.
The Group also has a 10 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility the Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
7.4 million carries interest at 5.59 per cent per annum.
The remaining 2.6 million carries interest at a rate relative to three month LIBOR, with such rate being capped at 5.59 per cent.
Consequently, the Group carries limited risk to increases in LIBOR on this facility.
The Crematoria Acquisition Facility is fully drawn and will be repayable in one payment in November 2013.
The Group has significant cash balances that are held by institutions rated at least A1 by Standard and Poors.
These balances earn interest by reference to the Bank of England base rate.
If base rates reduced by one per cent at the beginning of 2010 then the Group would receive 0.1 million less interest income on an annualised basis for each 10 million held.
None of the Groups other financial liabilities or financial assets carry any significant interest rate risk.
Credit risk Trade receivables are the main source of credit risk to the Group.
However, this risk is minimised as much as possible through wellestablished credit control procedures.
Quantitative disclosures regarding the aging of these receivables are included in note 21 c. Liquidity risk The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash reserves, committed undrawn borrowing facilities and regular monitoring and forecasting of cash balances.
In addition, the Group is required under the terms of its secured borrowings to maintain a precisely defined EBITDA to total debt service ratio of at least 1.5 times.
This ratio was determined when raising the debt as being sufficient to ensure all borrowings could be repaid.
This covenant test has been satisfied on each quarterly testing date in the period.
At 31 December 2010 the actual ratio was 2.56 times 2009: 2.60 times.
Capital risk management The Groups objective under managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, repay holders of Class A and B Secured Notes and benefit other shareholders.
It also aims to reduce its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
The Groups principal source of long term debt financing is the Class A and B Secured Notes, rated A and BBB respectively.
The Group monitors its capital structure based on gross debt to EBITDA.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or issue further Class A and B Secured Notes.
During the period, the Group issued further Secured Notes, undertook a Return of Value and consolidated its shares.
This is discussed further in notes 21 and 22.
During the period, the Group achieved its covenants under the terms of the Groups secured borrowings see Liquidity risk above.
Group Accounts 56 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 3 Revenue and segmental analysis Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
The chief operating decision maker of the Group has been identified as the four Executive Directors.
The Group has three reporting segments, funeral services, crematoria and prearranged funeral plans.
The Group also reports central overheads, which comprise unallocated central expenses.
Funeral services represent the sale of funerals and memorials at the time of need.
Crematoria represent the performance of cremations at the time of need, together with the sale of memorials.
Prearranged funeral plans represent the sale of funerals in advance to customers wishing to make their own funeral arrangements, and the marketing and administration costs associated with making such sales.
Substantially all Group revenue is derived from, and substantially all of the Groups net assets are located in, the United Kingdom and Channel Islands.
Overseas transactions are not material.
Underlying profit comprises profit before profit on sale of fixed assets, transaction costs and exceptional items.
Underlying operating profit is included as it is felt that adjusting operating profit for profit on sale of fixed assets, transaction costs and exceptional items provides a useful indication of the Groups performance.
The revenue and operating profit which includes Recoveries within prearranged funeral plans of 1.5 million in both periods and 0.3 million dividend from a fixed asset investment received 2009: nil, by segment, was as follows: Profit on sale of Underlying fixed assets, operating profit transaction before Depreciation Underlying costs and depreciation and and operating exceptional Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation profit loss items profit loss 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 m m m m m m Funeral services 143.3 56.0 6.7 49.3 0.2 49.5 Crematoria 37.5 22.0 2.1 19.9 19.9 Prearranged funeral plans 18.3 4.4 0.1 4.3 4.3 Central overheads 12.2 0.3 12.5 0.8 13.3 Group 199.1 70.2 9.2 61.0 0.6 60.4 Finance costs 22.5 22.5 Finance income 1.9 1.9 Profit before tax 40.4 0.6 39.8 Taxation continuing activities 11.7 0.2 11.5 Taxation exceptional 0.7 0.7 Taxation 11.7 0.9 10.8 Underlying earnings for the period 28.7 Total other items 0.3 Profit after taxation 29.0 Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders pence Basic and diluted 46.4p 46.9p Group Accounts 57 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 Revenue and segmental analysis continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Prearranged services Crematoria funeral plans Head office Group As at 31 December 2010 m m m m m Segment assets 247.1 101.2 14.0 3.4 365.7 Unallocated assets: Cash and cash equivalents 48.1 Total assets 413.8 Segment liabilities 22.8 4.7 5.2 7.2 39.9 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 346.5 Accrued interest 0.1 Corporation tax 4.8 Deferred tax 27.3 Total liabilities 418.6 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 14.5 17.8 1.3 33.6 Depreciation note 10 6.7 2.1 0.2 9.0 Amortisation note 9 0.2 0.2 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 1.3 1.3 Other non cash expenses note 23 1.0 1.0 Profit on sale of fixed assets 0.5 0.5 The revenue and operating profit, by segment, was as follows: Underlying Profit on sale of operating profit fixed assets before Depreciation Underlying and depreciation and and operating exceptional Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation profit loss tax credit profit loss 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 m m m m m m Funeral services 138.5 53.4 6.1 47.3 1.1 48.4 Crematoria 34.4 19.4 1.8 17.6 17.6 Prearranged funeral plans 11.8 3.5 3.5 3.5 Central overheads 11.4 0.6 12.0 12.0 Group 184.7 64.9 8.5 56.4 1.1 57.5 Finance costs 21.6 21.6 Finance income 1.6 1.6 Profit before tax 36.4 1.1 37.5 Taxation 10.6 0.3 10.9 Underlying earnings for the period 25.8 Total other items 0.8 Profit after taxation 26.6 Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders pence Basic and diluted 40.5p 41.8p Group Accounts 58 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 3 Revenue and segmental analysis continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Prearranged Services restated Crematoria funeral plans Head office Group restated As at 25 December 2009 m m m m m Segment assets 236.4 84.1 13.7 2.2 336.4 Unallocated assets: Financial assets loans and receivables 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 45.8 Total assets 382.3 Segment liabilities 21.8 3.4 2.8 4.5 32.5 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 274.3 Accrued interest 9.7 Corporation tax 4.3 Deferred tax 26.0 Total liabilities 346.8 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 12.7 18.0 0.5 31.2 Depreciation note 10 6.1 1.8 0.4 8.3 Amortisation note 9 0.2 0.2 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 1.1 1.1 Other non cash expenses note 23 1.0 1.0 Profit on sale of fixed assets 1.1 1.1 4 Net finance costs 53 week period 52 week period ended ended 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Finance costs Class A and B Secured Notes issued April 2003 13.8 14.0 Class A and B Secured Notes issued February 2006 5.0 5.1 Class A and B Secured Notes issued September 2010 1.3 Amortisation of issue costs issued April 2003 1.0 1.0 Amortisation of issue costs issued February 2006 0.2 0.3 Amortisation of issue costs issued September 2010 0.1 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.4 Other loans 0.2 0.1 Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of discounts 0.5 0.6 Finance costs 22.7 21.6 Less: interest capitalised 0.2 Net finance costs 22.5 21.6 Finance income Bank deposits 0.4 0.5 Release of premium on Secured Notes issued February 2006 0.8 0.8 Release of premium on Secured Notes issued September 2010 0.3 Net finance income on retirement benefit obligations note 28 0.4 0.3 Finance income 1.9 1.6 Net finance costs 20.6 20.0 Group Accounts 59 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 Profit before tax 53 week period 52 week period ended ended 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 Analysis by nature m m The following items have been included in arriving at profit before tax: Staff costs note 27 64.7 62.9 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales note 13 12.7 12.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 10 9.0 8.3 Amortisation of intangible assets included in administrative expenses note 9 0.2 0.2 Operating lease rentals property 6.4 5.8 Transaction costs 1.1 Recoveries included within other operating income 1.5 1.5 Trade receivables impairment included in administrative expenses note 21 c 1.3 1.1 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation Tax services 0.1 0.1 Fees in relation to issue of Secured Notes 1.4 1.7 0.3 The transaction costs comprise 0.8 million in respect of the Return of Value and 0.3 million of acquisition expenses.
The impact on taxation of these is a credit of 0.3 million 2009: nil.
During 2010, the Group paid fees of 1.4 million to the Groups auditor in connection with the issue of Secured Notes and redemption of B and C Shares.
Costs of 0.2 million have been expensed and 1.2 million has been deferred in accordance with IAS 39.
6 Taxation 53 week period 52 week period ended ended 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 Analysis of charge in the period m m Current tax current period 11.2 10.3 Adjustments for prior period 0.3 0.3 10.9 10.0 Deferred tax current period 0.4 0.7 Adjustments for prior period note 20 0.2 0.2 Exceptional adjustment for rate change 28% to 27% 0.7 0.1 0.9 Taxation 10.8 10.9 All tax relates to continuing operations.
53 week period 52 week period ended ended 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 Tax on items charged to equity m m Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 0.2 0.5 Corporation tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 0.4 0.8 Corporation tax relief relating to maturity of option schemes 0.1 0.2 Adjustment for rate change 28% to 27% 0.1 0.8 1.5 Group Accounts 60 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 6 Taxation continued 53 week period 52 week period ended ended 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 Total tax charge m m Total current tax charge 10.4 9.0 Total deferred tax credit charge 0.4 0.4 The taxation charge in the period is lower 2009: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 28 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 53 week period 52 week period ended ended 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Profit before taxation 39.8 37.5 Profit before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2009: 28% 11.1 10.5 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior period 0.1 0.1 Exceptional adjustment in respect of closing deferred tax rate change 28% to 27% 0.7 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.5 Total taxation 10.8 10.9 Under IFRS the tax rate is lower 2009: higher than the standard UK tax rate of 28 per cent due to combination of the impact of disallowable trading expenses and expenditure on the Groups premises that does not attract any deductions for tax purposes.
On 20 July 2010, legislation was passed confirming that the rate of Corporation Tax would reduce from 28 per cent to 27 per cent from 1 April 2011.
As a result, the Group recognised exceptional tax income of 0.7 million through its income statement to reflect the one off reduction in the period of the Groups deferred tax position.
The Group anticipates its effective tax rate will transition to 28.5 per cent in the 2011 financial period.
Further rate changes are anticipated, if these are subsequently enacted in the form expected then the corporation tax rate will reduce by a further 1 per cent per annum until 2014 when it will be 24 per cent.
The changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore are not recognised in these financial statements.
Each percentage point reduction in corporation tax rate is expected to reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately 1 million.
These impacts will be recognised in the period in which substantive enactment occurs.
7 Dividends 53 week period 52 week period ended ended 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Final dividend paid: 8.07p per Ordinary Share 2009: 7.34p 5.1 4.7 Interim dividend paid: nil p per Ordinary Share 2009: 4.03p 2.5 Dividend on Ordinary Shares excluding special dividend 5.1 7.2 Special dividend relating to Return of Value: 1 per C Share 2009: n a 44.6 On 15 October 2010, the Group returned a total of 63.9 million to Ordinary Shareholders equating to 1 for each Ordinary Share held following the issue of further Secured Notes.
Ordinary Shareholders were able to elect to receive this Return of Value as either: a A return of capital the Capital Option : b A special dividend the Special Dividend Option : or c A deferred income option the Deferred Dividend Option.
Ordinary Shareholders elected to receive 19.3 million as a return of capital, 44.6 million as a special dividend including 0.1 million as deferred income.
Group Accounts 61 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Dividends continued The interim dividend represents the interim dividend that was approved and paid in the period out of earnings generated in the same period.
No interim dividend was paid in the year as it was included within the Return of Value.
The planned interim dividend of 4.43 pence per share which was due to be paid on 29 October 2010 was declared but cancelled following the decision to return capital to shareholders.
The final dividend represents the final dividend that was approved and paid in the period relating to the earnings generated in the previous period.
Consequently, total dividends recognised in the period were 49.7 million, 108.07 pence per share 2009: 7.2 million, 11.37 pence per share.
A final dividend of 8.88 pence per share, in respect of 2010, has been proposed by the Board.
This will be paid on 24 June 2011 provided that approval is gained from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2011 and will be paid to shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 May 2011.
8 Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per Ordinary Share has been based on the profit for the relevant period.
For diluted earnings per Ordinary Share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares being those share options granted to employees under the Groups SAYE Scheme and the contingently issuable shares under the Groups LTIP Schemes.
At the balance sheet date, the performance criteria for the vesting of the awards under the LTIP Schemes had not been met and these contingently issuable shares have been excluded from the diluted EPS calculations.
The Board believes that profit on ordinary activities before profit on sale of fixed assets, transaction costs, exceptional items and after taxation is a useful indication of the Groups performance, as it excludes significant nonrecurring items.
This reporting measure is defined as Underlying profit after taxation.
Accordingly, the Board believes that earnings per share calculated by reference to this underlying profit after taxation is also a useful indicator of financial performance.
On 8 October, shareholders approved a share capital consolidation together with a Special Dividend of 1 per Ordinary Share.
The overall effect of the transaction was that of a share repurchase at fair value.
The reduction in the number of Ordinary Shares is the result of a corresponding reduction in resources.
Reconciliations of the earnings and the weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Weighted average number of Per share Earnings shares amount m millions pence 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 Profit attributable to shareholders Basic and diluted EPS 29.0 61.8 46.9 Deduct: Exceptional items, profit on sale of fixed assets and transaction costs net of taxation 0.3 Underlying profit after taxation Basic EPS 28.7 61.8 46.4 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 Profit attributable to shareholders Basic and diluted EPS 26.6 63.7 41.8 Deduct: Profit on sale of fixed assets net of taxation 0.8 Underlying profit after taxation Basic EPS 25.8 63.7 40.5 In 2010 and 2009, the potential issue of new shares pursuant to the Groups share option plans would have no impact on the earnings per share.
Group Accounts 62 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets Use of third Non Trade party brand compete names name Software agreements Subtotal Goodwill Total m m m m m m m Cost At 26 December 2008 30.3 3.2 3.9 0.2 37.6 129.8 167.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses 2.8 2.8 9.6 12.4 Restatement under IFRS 3 0.3 0.3 At 25 December 2009 restated 33.1 3.2 3.9 0.2 40.4 139.7 180.1 Additions 0.1 0.1 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses note 26 a 3.7 3.7 3.2 6.9 At 31 December 2010 36.8 3.2 4.0 0.2 44.2 142.9 187.1 Accumulated amortisation At 26 December 2008 0.4 3.8 0.1 4.3 4.3 Amortisation charge 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 At 25 December 2009 0.5 3.8 0.2 4.5 4.5 Amortisation charge 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2010 0.6 3.9 0.2 4.7 4.7 Net book amount at 31 December 2010 36.8 2.6 0.1 39.5 142.9 182.4 Net book amount at 25 December 2009 restated 33.1 2.7 0.1 35.9 139.7 175.6 Impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets As described in note 1, goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing: i Goodwill is tested at a business segment level.
ii Other intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cashgenerating units CGUs on a regional basis.
The segmental allocation is shown below: Amortisation of 0.2 million 2009: 0.2 million is included within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Intangible assets Goodwill Total At 31 December 2010 m m m Funeral services 36.8 97.9 134.7 Crematoria 40.3 40.3 Prearranged funeral plans 2.6 4.7 7.3 Head office 0.1 0.1 39.5 142.9 182.4 At 25 December 2009 restated Funeral services 33.1 94.7 127.8 Crematoria 40.3 40.3 Prearranged funeral plans 2.7 4.7 7.4 Head office 0.1 0.1 35.9 139.7 175.6 The recoverable amount of a CGU is based on a valueinuse calculation.
However, the assets allocated to head office are tested for impairment by reference to the Group as a whole.
Group Accounts 63 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The valueinuse calculations use cash flow projections based on the latest management expectations.
Key assumptions used to produce the annual budget are the estimated UK death rates based on historical death rates supplied by ONS, anticipated market share based on actual experience and anticipated price increases.
Cash flows beyond the initial 12 month period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.25 per cent 2009: 2.25 per cent.
The cash flows are discounted at a pretax rate of 9.2 per cent 2009: 9.2 per cent.
This rate is used to analyse each CGU because they all have similar risk profiles.
Based on these calculations, the discount rate would have to increase to at least 19 per cent 2009: 22 per cent, or the growth rate would have to reduce to at least minus 9 per cent 2009: minus 11 per cent to result in any impairment of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and working capital.
On the basis of the above, the review indicated that no impairment arose in any segment 2009: nil.
Included within plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings net book value is 8.9 million 2009: 4.1 million relating to assets held in the course of construction.
In 2010, borrowing costs of 0.2 million 2009: n a were capitalised as components of the cost of construction of qualifying assets, applying an annualised average capitalisation rate of 6.7 per cent 2009: n a.
Details of any securities over assets are disclosed in note 30.
Group Accounts 64 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 10 Property, plant and equipment continued Additional headings have been included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for property, plant and equipment in order to provide additional information on the different types of expenditure that the Group has spent during the year.
Assets held under finance leases, which relate solely to leasehold land and buildings, have the following net book amount: 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Cost 1.0 1.0 Accumulated depreciation 0.3 0.3 Net book amount 0.7 0.7 The Group had capital expenditure authorised by the Board and contracted for at the balance sheet date of 9.3 million 2009: 2.8 million.
This includes amounts in respect of the crematoria being developed at Somerset, Worcestershire and WestonsuperMare.
11 Noncurrent financial and other assets 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 Note m m Prepayments a 10.2 8.2 Deferred commissions b 1.8 1.1 Other receivables 0.1 12.0 9.4 a Prepayments This balance represents the amounts paid to acquire the long leasehold interest in land at certain of the Groups properties.
Management consider that leases greater than fifty years at inception are long leases.
The balance is expensed on a straightline basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The leases expire at various times over the next thirty to nine hundred years.
b Deferred commissions The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies.
12 Investments A list of the trading entities included within the financial information are included in note C2 to the Companys financial statements.
13 Inventories 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Materials 0.9 0.9 Finished goods 4.3 3.2 5.2 4.1 The cost of inventories recognised within cost of sales amounted to 12.7 million 2009: 12.6 million.
There were no inventory writedowns in either period.
Group Accounts 65 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 14 Trade and other receivables 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Trade receivables 19.6 17.1 Less: provision for impairment note 21 c 3.7 3.6 Net trade receivables 15.9 13.5 Receivables due from related parties note 31 2.4 3.6 Prepayments and accrued income 3.7 2.5 Other receivables 2.0 1.9 24.0 21.5 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for doubtful recoverables.
For further details of the trade receivables past due and impaired refer to note 21 c. Due to the short term nature of these balances, the carrying value is considered to be their fair value.
15 Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 Note m m Operating cash as reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows as cash and cash equivalents 46.6 31.8 Recoveries: prearranged funeral plans a 1.5 1.5 Amounts set aside for debt service payments b 12.5 Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the balance sheet 48.1 45.8 a Recoveries may not be used for one year following receipt and therefore do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements.
b This amount was transferred to restricted bank accounts which could only be used for the payment of the interest and principal on the Secured Notes, the repayment of liabilities due on the Groups interest rate swaps see note 16 e and commitment fees due on its undrawn borrowing facilities see note 21 d and for no other purpose.
This amount does not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements.
Whilst not applicable in 2010, in 2009, this amount was used to pay these respective parties on 31 December 2009.
Of this amount 9.9 million is shown within the cash flow statement as Payments to restricted bank accounts for finance costs and 2.6 million is shown within Financing activities as Payments to restricted bank accounts for repayment of borrowings.
Group Accounts 66 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 16 Financial liabilities 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 Current Note m m Class A Secured Notes issued April 2003 a 3.2 4.6 Class A Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 1.5 2.1 Class A Secured Notes issued September 2010 c 1.4 Premium on Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 0.7 0.8 Premium on Secured Notes issued September 2010 c 1.2 Other current financial liabilities e 0.7 1.0 g 8.7 8.5 Noncurrent Class A and B Secured Notes issued April 2003 a 171.9 175.1 Class A and B Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 64.1 65.7 Class A and B Secured Notes issued September 2010 c 65.3 Premium on Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 9.5 10.3 Premium on Secured Notes issued September 2010 c 12.4 Finance lease obligations d 0.7 0.8 Other noncurrent financial liabilities e 4.7 4.9 Crematoria Acquisition Facility f 9.9 9.8 338.5 266.6 a Class A and B Secured Notes issued April 2003 On 11 April 2003, Dignity Finance PLC issued 110,000,000 Class A Secured Notes the A notes and 100,000,000 Class B Secured Notes the B notes.
The A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The A notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2023.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the A notes totalled 9.8 million.
The B notes carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The B notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2030.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the B notes totalled 8.9 million.
The principal outstanding on the Secured Notes and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table above.
Both the A notes and the B notes are secured by first ranking security in respect of the undertakings and assets of Dignity 2002 Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, 86.0 million 2009: 91.6 million of the principal of the A notes and 100.0 million 2009: 100.0 million of the principal of the B notes was outstanding.
At 31 December 2010, 4.9 million 2009: 5.6 million and 6.0 million 2009: 6.3 million of the transaction costs in respect of the A notes and the B notes respectively remain unamortised.
b Class A and B Secured Notes issued February 2006 On 21 February 2006, Dignity Finance PLC issued 45,550,000 Class A Secured Notes the Further A notes and 32,500,000 Class B Secured Notes the Further B notes.
The Further A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The Further A notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2023.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Further A notes totalled 1.9 million.
The Further B notes carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The Further B notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2030.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Further B notes totalled 1.8 million.
Both the Further A notes and the Further B notes are secured by first ranking security in respect of the undertakings and assets of Dignity 2002 Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, 35.6 million 2009: 38.0 million of the principal of the Further A notes and 32.5 million 2009: 32.5 million of the principal of the Further B notes was outstanding.
At 31 December 2010, 1.1 million 2009: 1.2 million and 1.4 million 2009: 1.5 million of the transaction costs in respect of the Further A notes and the Further B notes respectively remain unamortised.
The Further A notes and Further B notes were issued at a premium of 3.6 million and 10.8 million respectively, which is being released in proportion to the interest cost in the notes.
At the balance sheet date 2.1 million 2009: 2.4 million and 8.2 million 2009: 8.7 million respectively remained unamortised.
Group Accounts 67 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 16 Financial liabilities continued c Class A and B Secured Notes issued September 2010 On 27 September 2010, Dignity Finance PLC issued 48,650,000 Class A Secured Notes the Second Further A notes and 33,100,000 Class B Secured Notes the Second Further B notes.
The Second Further A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The Second Further A notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2023.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Second Further A notes totalled 2.4 million.
The Second Further B notes carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The Second Further B notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2030.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Second Further B notes totalled 2.1 million.
The principal outstanding on the Secured Notes and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table on page 66.
Both the Second Further A notes and the Second Further B notes are secured by first ranking security in respect of the undertakings and assets of Dignity 2002 Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, 38.0 million of the principal of the Second Further A notes and 33.1 million of the principal of the Second Further B notes was outstanding.
At 31 December 2010, 2.4 million and 2.0 million of the transaction costs in respect of the Second Further A notes and the Second Further B notes respectively remain unamortised.
The Second Further A notes and Second Further B notes were issued at a premium of 5.7 million and 8.2 million respectively, which is being released in proportion to the interest cost in the notes.
At the balance sheet date 5.5 million and 8.1 million respectively remained unamortised.
For further details of security over the class A and B Secured Notes see note 30 a. d Obligations under finance leases 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase payable: Within one year Between one and two years Between two and five years 0.2 0.2 After five years 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 The finance leases and hire purchase liabilities are secured on the related assets.
e Other financial liabilities On 20 December 2002, Dignity 2002 Limited entered into contracts to swap the floating rate interest on a bank loan into fixed rate.
Contractually, these swaps were not effective until 30 April 2003.
On 11 April 2003, as described in note 16 a, the Group issued Secured Notes at a fixed rate of interest.
These notes replaced the bank loan.
Consequently, the swaps were no longer required as the Group had no interest rate risk on the Secured Notes.
As a result, the Group entered into further contracts on 11 April 2003 to swap fixed rate interest into floating in order to offset the original swaps and eliminate any interest rate risk in this regard.
As a result of interest rate movements between these two dates, the combined effect of all the contracts was that the Group makes fixed and determinable biannual payments on a notional principal amount.
These swap agreements were entered into under one ISDA master agreement.
This master agreement forces the swaps to be viewed and settled on a net basis only: a position that cannot be altered without the written consent of both parties.
Accordingly, the overall transaction represents a financial liability.
The fair value represents the discounted net present value of future cash flows.
Further, as these contracts related to the raising of the Secured Notes, the liability has been accounted for as a transaction cost of the Class A and B Secured Notes and is being amortised in accordance with IAS 39.
Group Accounts 68 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 16 Financial liabilities continued f Crematoria Acquisition Facility The Group also has a 10 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility the Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
The transaction costs incurred on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility were 0.2 million.
The principal outstanding on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table above.
At 31 December 2010, 10.0 million 2009: 10.0 million of the principal was outstanding.
At 31 December 2010, 0.1 million 2009: 0.2 million of the transaction costs remained unamortised.
For further details of security over the Crematoria Acquisition Facility see note 30 b. g Current financial liabilities The current financial liabilities represent the amounts falling due within one year of the Groups accounting reference date, 31 December.
17 Trade and other payables 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 restated Current m m Trade payables 10.2 5.0 Tax and social security 1.3 1.3 Other current liabilities 1.4 1.3 Other current liabilities Deferred Dividend Option 0.1 Accruals and deferred income 19.0 26.9 32.0 34.5 Noncurrent Deferred income 1.1 1.2 Deferred consideration for acquisitions note 26 a 0.3 0.3 Long service awards 1.1 1.1 Other noncurrent liabilities 0.4 0.5 2.9 3.1 18 Obligations under finance leases and operating leases For minimum lease payments obligations under finance leases refer to note 21 d ii.
31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m The minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Not later than one year 7.0 5.7 Later than one year but not more than five years 20.3 16.5 More than five years 89.3 29.8 116.6 52.0 The noncancellable operating leases principally relate to leasehold land and buildings.
Of the total operating lease payments charged to trading expenses, 0.1 million 2009: 0.1 million are in respect of contingent rentals.
The contingent rentals are based on the revenues generated at the specific locations.
Sublease payments received in the year amount to 0.4 million 2009: 0.4 million.
Total future sublease payments receivable relating to operating leases amount to 0.5 million 2009: 0.5 million.
In addition, the Group has operating lease commitments with rentals determined in relation to sales.
It is not possible to quantify future rentals payable under such leases.
Group Accounts 69 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Provisions for liabilities and charges Asbestos Onerous Cancellation Dilapidations rectification contracts provision Total m m m m m a b c d At beginning of period 2.4 0.1 0.6 0.7 3.8 Charged released to income statement 0.5 0.1 1.0 1.4 Utilised in period 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.9 Amortisation of discount 0.1 0.1 At end of period 2.7 0.5 1.2 4.4 Provisions have been analysed between current and noncurrent as follows: 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Current 1.5 1.3 Noncurrent 2.9 2.5 4.4 3.8 a Dilapidations The provision for dilapidations covers the costs of repair to leased premises occupied by the Group in respect of which a dilapidations notification has been received, and properties where a dilapidation obligation exists but for which no notification has been received.
It is anticipated that the element of provision relating to dilapidation notices served, 0.8 million 2009: 0.7 million, will be incurred in the following financial year, and the element relating to dilapidation obligations where no notice has been served will be utilised over the terms of the relevant property leases, the majority of which is expected to be by 31 December 2019. b Asbestos rectification In May 2004, the Control of Asbestos at Work regulations came into effect.
This introduces an explicit duty to manage asbestos in all nondomestic properties.
Those who have responsibility for the maintenance and or repair of the premises are similarly responsible for the control of asbestos.
Therefore, where the Group has entered into leases with a tenantrepairing clause, it is also responsible for the control of asbestos.
The provision included the expected rectification costs of properties plus the estimated costs of surveying these properties.
This provision has been fully released during the year.
c Onerous contracts The Group has provided for the discounted future costs of certain contracts to which the Group is legally bound.
These contracts relate to vacant leasehold properties and other contracts from which no economic benefit is derived.
The provision will be utilised over the term of the contracts and it is anticipated that it will be fully utilised after seven years.
Included within the provision is an amount of 0.1 million 2009: 0.1 million relating to the expected costs of ongoing rent reviews, the outcomes of which have been based on recent experience of similar reviews on other properties.
d Cancellation provision As described in note 1, the Group receives monies from certain prearranged funeral plan Trusts in respect of the marketing of prearranged funeral plans, which are refundable to the Trust in the event of cancellation.
The provision covers the expected cost of such cancellations anticipated to occur in future years relating to plans sold before the balance sheet date and is anticipated to be utilised over the next three years.
Group Accounts 70 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 20 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 27 per cent 2009: 28 per cent.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m At beginning of period 26.0 24.4 Charged to income statement note 6 0.6 0.9 Adjustment for rate change 28% to 27% 0.8 Taken to equity note 6 0.2 0.5 Arising on acquisitions 1.7 1.2 At end of period 27.3 26.0 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the period are shown below: Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax Pensions depreciation Other Total m m m m At beginning of period 2.5 17.8 7.1 27.4 Charged to income statement note 6 1.5 2.0 0.5 Adjustment for rate change 28% to 27% 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.8 Taken to equity note 6 0.1 0.1 Arising on acquisitions note 26 a 1.2 0.5 1.7 At end of period 2.3 16.9 9.5 28.7 Deferred tax assets Other Total m m At beginning of period 1.4 1.4 Charged to income statement note 6 0.1 0.1 Taken to equity note 6 0.1 0.1 At end of period 1.4 1.4 All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities and hence the net deferred tax provision at 31 December 2010 was 27.3 million 2009: 26.0 million.
Other deferred tax liabilities includes goodwill on trade names and capital gains rolled forward, other tax assets includes options schemes and long service awards.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of losses within the Group amounting to 4.1 million net at 27 per cent 2009: 4.3 million net at 28 per cent.
Based on the current debt structure of the Group and the nature of these losses, the Directors do not consider that taxable profits will arise in the relevant company from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Elements of these deferred tax balances may be payable recoverable within one year.
However, the Directors consider that it is not possible to quantify the amount because the level of uncertainty in the timing of events and have therefore classified the whole balance as due after more than one year.
The deferred income tax charged to equity during the period was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 0.2 0.5 Adjustment for rate change 28% to 27% 0.1 Group Accounts 71 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21 Financial instruments Fair values of nonderivative financial assets and financial liabilities Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at relevant interest rates.
The carrying values of short term borrowings approximate to book value.
Trade receivables are held net of impairment.
Fair value estimation IFRS 7 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
All assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost other than interest rate swaps which are held at fair value.
These swaps are level 2. a Fair value of current and noncurrent financial assets and liabilities 31 December 2010 25 December 2009 restated Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Long term borrowings excluding finance lease obligations note 16 337.8 398.9 265.8 289.2 Finance lease obligations note 16 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.8 338.5 399.6 266.6 290.0 Fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Short term borrowings excluding finance lease obligations note 16 8.7 9.7 8.5 9.0 Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities note 17 30.7 30.7 33.2 33.2 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments note 14 20.3 20.3 19.0 19.0 Cash and cash equivalents note 15 48.1 48.1 45.8 45.8 Other noncurrent financial liabilities note 17 2.9 2.9 3.1 3.1 Group Accounts 72 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 21 Financial instruments continued b Maturity of financial liabilities The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest costs yet to be incurred.
31 December 2010 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities Class A and B Secured Notes gross 7.7 8.3 8.9 20.0 280.3 325.2 Interest payable on Notes 23.5 23.0 22.4 43.0 193.7 305.6 Swaps 0.7 0.7 0.7 1.4 4.6 8.1 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 10.0 10.0 Interest payable on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.5 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.7 3.1 Debt repayments 32.4 32.6 42.6 64.6 481.3 653.5 Other financial liabilities 31.6 0.3 0.3 0.5 1.3 34.0 64.0 32.9 42.9 65.1 482.6 687.5 25 December 2009 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities Class A and B Secured Notes gross 8.0 5.9 6.3 14.2 227.7 262.1 Interest payable on Notes 28.2 18.4 18.0 34.8 170.4 269.8 Swaps 1.0 0.7 0.7 1.4 5.3 9.1 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 10.0 10.0 Interest payable on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 1.9 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.8 Debt repayments 37.8 25.6 25.6 60.9 403.8 553.7 Other financial liabilities 33.9 0.4 0.4 0.5 1.2 36.4 71.7 26.0 26.0 61.4 405.0 590.1 This amount includes 2.6 million that was paid on 31 December 2009.
This amount includes 9.5 million that was paid on 31 December 2009.
This amount includes 0.3 million that was paid on 31 December 2009.
This amount includes 0.1 million that was paid on 31 December 2009.
The amounts disclosed in the tables below represent the anticipated amortisation profile for the issue costs and premium relating to the issue of the A and B Secured Notes.
31 December 2010 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Noncash liabilities Issue costs on Secured Notes 1.6 1.6 1.5 2.8 10.3 17.8 Premium on Secured Notes 1.9 1.9 1.8 3.5 14.8 23.9 Issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.7 4.5 6.0 Group Accounts 73 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21 Financial instruments continued 25 December 2009 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Noncash liabilities Issue costs 1.2 1.2 1.2 2.2 8.8 14.6 Premium on Secured Notes 0.8 0.8 0.7 1.4 7.4 11.1 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.9 1.4 3.7 c Trade receivables As at 31 December 2010, 8.4 million of the gross trade receivables 2009: 7.2 million were past due and partially impaired.
The amount of the provision, as at 31 December 2010, was 3.7 million 2009: 3.6 million.
The individually impaired receivables principally relate to monies owing for funerals performed by the funeral services division.
The aging of these receivables is as follows: 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m One to six months 5.7 4.5 Over six months 2.7 2.7 8.4 7.2 The amount of gross trade receivables past due that were not impaired was not significant.
Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m At beginning of period 3.6 3.3 Charged to income statement 1.3 1.1 Utilised in period 1.2 0.8 At end of period 3.7 3.6 d Borrowing facilities i The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2010, all of which were at floating interest rates, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Expiring within one year 50.0 40.0 Expiring between one and two years Expiring in more than two years 5.0 5.0 55.0 45.0 50.0 million 2009: 40.0 million of the amount above is a liquidity facility relating to the Class A and B Secured Notes.
This facility may only be used to repay interest and principal on the Secured Notes in the event of insufficient cash to service these instruments.
The facility is subject to annual renewal.
However, if the bank providing the facility does not renew it, then the provider is required to place 50.0 million 2009: 40.0 million in a bank account, which the Group may access as if it represented a borrowing facility on the same terms.
The facility is available on these terms until the Secured Notes have been repaid in full.
Group Accounts 74 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 21 Financial instruments continued The remaining 5.0 million facility expires in April 2013.
Both these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
ii The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Not later than one year 0.1 Later than one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.2 More than five years 2.9 2.9 3.1 3.2 Future finance costs on finance leases 2.4 2.4 Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.7 0.8 22 Called up share capital 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Allotted, called up and fully paid Equity shares 54,757,002 2009: 63,737,653 Ordinary Shares of 0.105 2009: 0.09 each 5.7 5.7 From 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital.
The Companys articles have been updated to show there are no restrictions to the Companys ability to issue shares.
Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
During the period, the Group received nil consideration in relation to the 143,713 shares issued under the 2007 LTIP scheme.
Changes in issued share capital On 10 October 2010, the Ordinary Share capital of the Company was consolidated such that shareholders received six Ordinary Shares of 0.105 each in exchange for every seven Ordinary Shares of 0.09 each held at close of business on 8 October 2010.
As a result of the Return of Value undertaken in the year bonus shares of 19,274,610 B Shares with a nominal value of 1 per share and 44,607,017 C Shares were issued.
The B Shares were issued on 8 October 2010 and redeemed for cash on 11 October 2010.
The C Shares were issued on 8 October 2010 and 44,500,715 were converted to Deferred Shares on the same day.
As a result of the Return of Value undertaken in the year, the Group has 106,302 2009: nil C Shares in issue at the period end.
These C Shares have no voting rights and in accordance with the rights attached to the C Shares, the Company may at any time after 1 May 2011 but before 31 July 2011 purchase the C Shares in issue for 1 per C Share.
The Group also has 44,500,715 2009: nil Deferred Shares in issue at the period end.
These Deferred Shares have no voting rights and have a nominal value of 0.0001 per share, 4,500 in total.
The Deferred Shares were purchased by the Company on 2 February 2011 for 1 in aggregate and subsequently cancelled on the same date.
Potential issues of Ordinary Shares Certain employees hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under an approved Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme started in 2010.
In addition, Executive Directors and senior management hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs awarded in 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Group Accounts 75 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 22 Called up share capital continued The total number of outstanding shares subject to options excluding lapses, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below: Exercise price 2010 2009 2008 Year of grant pence Exercise period Number Number Number 1 December 2013 2010 SAYE 701.00 to 31 May 2014 207,231 n a n a 17 March 2011 2008 LTIP to 17 March 2012 227,089 227,089 227,963 20 March 2012 2009 LTIP to 20 March 2013 267,272 267,272 n a 19 March 2013 2010 LTIP to 19 March 2014 255,844 n a n a 23 Sharebased payments LTIP Schemes The LTIP Scheme was introduced after the flotation of the Group in 2004.
Under the LTIP Scheme, the remuneration committee can grant options over shares in the Company to employees of the Group.
Awards under the LTIP Scheme are generally reserved for Executive Directors and senior management.
The Company has made annual grants since April 2004.
Options granted under the LTIP Scheme will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the conditions described on pages 31 and 32.
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment unless an individual ceases to be an employee by reason of death, illness, redundancy or other similar circumstances.
Options were valued using the Monte Carlo option pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 19 March 20 March 18 March Grant date 2010 2009 2008 Share price at grant date 6.55 5.66 7.62 Exercise price Number of employees 32 30 31 Shares under option 255,844 268,799 229,733 Vesting period years 3 33 Expected volatility 26.4% 23.1% 18.1% Option life years 10 10 10 Expected life years 3 33 Risk free rate 1.92% 1.89% 3.74% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2.2% 2.1% 1.6% Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting 0% 0% 0% Fair value per option 4.19 3.11 4.13 The expected volatility is calculated by reference to historical volatility over the last three years.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zerocoupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
During the period, nil options 2009: 206 under the 2007 LTIP Scheme, nil options 2009: 874 under the 2008 LTIP Scheme, nil 2009: 1,527 under the 2009 LTIP scheme and nil under the 2010 LTIP scheme were forfeited.
143,713 options were exercised under the 2007 LTIP Scheme during the period.
The weighted average share price of the options exercised during the period was 6.25.
The options under the 2008, 2009 and 2010 LTIP Schemes have not yet vested.
The charge to the income statement in the period in respect of the LTIP Schemes was 0.9 million 2009: 0.8 million.
All of which are equity based settled.
Group Accounts 76 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 23 Sharebased payments continued SAYE Scheme Two Inland Revenue approved SAYE Schemes were in place during the period with both carrying the same terms and conditions.
Options were valued using the BlackScholes option pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2010 Scheme 2007 Scheme Grant date 22 October 2010 21 May 2007 Share price at grant date 6.46 7.26 Exercise price 7.01 7.15 Number of employees 489 680 Shares under option 207,231 292,377 Vesting period years 3 3 Expected volatility 26.6% 16.8% Option life years 3.5 3.5 Expected life years 3.25 3.25 Risk free rate 1.02% 5.48% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2.2% 1.4% Possibility of failing to save 0% 0% Fair value per option 0.86 1.34 During the period nil 2009: 38,922 under the 2007 SAYE Scheme and nil under the 2010 SAYE Scheme 2009: nil were forfeited and 1,583 options 2009: 36 were exercised under the 2007 SAYE Scheme.
The weighted average share price of the options exercised during the period was 6.53.
The expected volatility is calculated by reference to historical volatility over the last three years.
The options under the 2010 SAYE Scheme have not yet vested.
The charge to the income statement in the period in respect of the SAYE Schemes was 0.1 million 2009: 0.2 million.
24 Net debt 31 December 25 December 2010 2009 m m Net amounts owing on 2003 and 2006 Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements 251.0 258.6 Add: unamortised issue costs notes 16 a and 16 b 13.4 14.6 Gross amounts owing on 2003 and 2006 Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements 264.4 273.2 Net amounts owing on 2010 Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements 80.3 Add: unamortised issue costs note 16 c 4.4 Gross amounts owing on all Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements 349.1 273.2 Net amounts owing on Crematoria Acquisition Facility per financial statements 9.9 9.8 Add: unamortised issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility note 16 f 0.1 0.2 Gross amounts owing 359.1 283.2 Accrued interest on Class A and B Secured Notes paid 31 December 9.6 Accrued interest on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents note 15 48.1 45.8 Net debt 311.1 247.1 In addition to the above, the consolidated balance sheet also includes finance lease obligations and other financial liabilities which totalled 5.9 million 2009: 6.7 million.
These amounts do not represent sources of funding for the Group and are therefore excluded from the calculation of net debt.
The Groups primary financial covenant in respect of the Secured Notes requires EBITDA to total debt service to be at least 1.5 times.
At 31 December 2010, the actual ratio was 2.56 times 2009: 2.60 times.
These ratios are calculated for EBITDA and total debt service on a 12 month rolling basis and reported quarterly.
In addition, both terms are specifically defined in the legal agreement relating to the Secured Notes.
As such, they cannot be accurately calculated from the contents of this report.
Group Accounts 77 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Reconciliation of cash generated from operations 2010 2009 m m Net profit for the period 29.0 26.6 Adjustments for: Taxation 10.8 10.9 Net finance costs 20.6 20.0 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 0.5 1.1 Depreciation charges 9.0 8.3 Amortisation of intangibles 0.2 0.2 Inventories 1.0 0.2 Trade receivables 2.4 1.4 Trade payables 5.0 1.8 Transaction costs 1.1 Changes in other working capital excluding acquisitions 1.7 Employee share option charges note 23 1.0 1.0 Cash generated from operations before transaction costs and exceptional pension contributions 74.5 65.3 Other noncash transactions Noncash charges comprise amortisation of deferred debt issue costs, as discussed in note 16 a, b and c. 26 Acquisitions a Acquisition of subsidiary and other businesses Provisional fair value m Tangible fixed assets 0.6 Intangible assets: Trade names 3.7 Other working capital 1.3 Deferred taxation 1.7 Net assets acquired 3.9 Goodwill arising 3.2 7.1 Satisfied by: Cash paid on completion funded from internally generated cash flows 7.0 Deferred consideration 0.1 Total consideration 7.1 During 2010, the Group acquired the operational interest of six funeral locations.
These transactions were either acquisitions of trade and assets or acquisitions of the entire issued share capital of a limited company.
All these acquisitions have been accounted for under the acquisition method.
None were individually material and consequently have been aggregated.
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
This represents the value to the Group of the funeral locations.
The fair value adjustments contain some provisional amounts, which will be finalised in 2011.
These adjustments reflect the recognition of trade names and associated deferred taxation and adjustments to reflect the fair value of other working capital movements such as debtors, inventories and accruals.
The businesses acquired have their assets and liabilities amalgamated within the existing business structure and as such, it is impractical to determine, without undue expense and delay due to the immaterial size of each, the post acquisition results.
It is also not possible to quantify the results of these businesses prior to acquisition as it represents confidential information relating to the vendors, which the Directors do not have authority to disclose.
Group Accounts 78 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 26 Acquisitions continued b Reconciliation to cash flow statement 2010 2009 m m Cash paid on completion 7.0 13.3 Cash paid in respect of deferred consideration obligations 0.1 0.1 Cash acquired on acquisition 1.3 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses as reported in the cash flow statement 5.8 13.3 27 Employees and Directors 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 57.7 56.4 Social security costs 4.6 4.5 Other pension costs 1.4 1.0 Employee share option charges note 23 0.1 0.2 Key management share option charges note 23 0.9 0.8 64.7 62.9 Key management are considered to be the Board of Directors only and thus no additional disclosures are presented than that included in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The monthly average number of people, including Directors, employed by the Group during the period was as follows: 2010 2009 Number Number Management and administration 117 115 Funeral services staff 2,031 2,035 Crematoria staff 263 256 Prearranged funeral plan staff 56 49 2,467 2,455 Directors emoluments Details of Directors emoluments are disclosed in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 34 to 36 which form part of these consolidated financial statements.
28 Pension commitments Defined contribution plans The Group contributes to certain individuals personal pension schemes.
These contributions are accounted for as defined contribution schemes.
The pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Defined contribution schemes 0.1 0.1 Defined benefit plans In 2005, the Group operated two defined benefit plans in the UK.
On 6 April 2006 the Dignity 1972 Pension Scheme was merged into the Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2008.
The valuation results of the merged scheme were updated to 31 December 2010 by a qualified independent Actuary.
For 2010, the employers contribution rate payable was 9.2 per cent of Pensionable Salaries 2009: 9.2 per cent of Pensionable Salaries.
The total monetary contribution paid by the employer for 2010 was 1.3 million 2009: 1.3 million.
In addition special contributions of 1.0 million have been paid to make the total contribution for the year 2.3 million.
Group Accounts 79 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 28 Pension commitments continued The principal assumptions used by the actuary were: Assumptions 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.4% 5.7% Expected longterm rate of return on assets 5.7% 5.5% Rate of increase in salaries 3.75% 3.75% Rate of increase in payment of post April 1997 pensionable service 3.4% 3.4% Rate of increase in payment of post April 2005 pensionable service 2.5% 2.5% RPI price inflation assumption 3.5% 3.5% CPI price inflation assumption 3.0% n a Due to the Government announcement for future statutory rates of revaluation to be based on increases in CPI instead of RPI and inline with pension scheme rules, an amount of 0.8 million has been credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to this change.
The underlying mortality assumption is PCA00 on a year of birth usage, with medium cohort future improvement factors subject to a minimum annual rate of future improvement equal to one per cent and rated up by the addition of four years to age for males and by the addition of one year to age for females 2009: same.
Pensions and other postretirement obligations The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2010 2009 m m Fair value of plan assets 84.6 77.1 Present value of funded obligations 76.1 68.0 Net asset recognised in the balance sheet 8.5 9.1 Analysis of amount charged to income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes 2010 2009 m m Current service cost 1.1 0.8 Past service cost 0.2 0.1 Total included within cost of sales staff costs 1.3 0.9 Interest cost 3.9 3.5 Expected return on plan assets 4.3 3.8 Total included within finance income 0.4 0.3 Expected contributions to the Groups pension scheme for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 are 1.3 million.
Group Accounts 80 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 28 Pension commitments continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Present value of obligation at beginning of period 68.0 55.9 61.1 59.3 57.8 Current service cost 1.1 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.0 Past service cost 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Interest cost 3.9 3.5 3.6 3.0 2.8 Benefits paid 3.1 2.9 2.8 2.6 2.3 Contributions by participants 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 Actuarial losses gains 4.6 9.3 8.4 1.0 1.4 Present value of obligation at end of period 76.1 68.0 55.9 61.1 59.3 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9 45.8 Expected return on plan assets 4.3 3.8 4.3 3.7 2.8 Contributions by Group 2.3 1.3 1.2 1.2 11.2 Contributions by participants 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 Benefits paid 3.1 2.9 2.8 2.6 2.3 Actuarial gains losses 2.6 4.5 2.8 4.4 1.0 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 84.6 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet asset 2010 2009 m m At beginning of period 9.1 13.2 Total expense as above 0.9 0.6 Actuarial losses 2.0 4.8 Contributions by Group 2.3 1.3 At end of period 8.5 9.1 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity 2010 2009 m m At beginning of period 9.7 14.5 Net actuarial losses recognised in the period 2.0 4.8 At end of period 7.7 9.7 The actual return on plan assets was 6.9 million 2009: 8.3 million.
History of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Amount m 2.6 4.5 2.8 4.4 1.0 Percentage of schemes assets 3.0% 5.8% 4.1% 6.5% 1.7% Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Amount m 1.1 0.3 1.0 0.9 0.5 Percentage of the present value of the schemes liabilities 1.4% 0.4% 1.8% 1.5% 0.8% Present value of scheme liabilities m 76.1 68.0 55.9 61.1 59.3 Fair value of scheme assets m 84.6 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9 Surplus m 8.5 9.1 13.2 6.8 0.6 Increase decrease in Liabilities Assets Surplus surplus Change in assumptions m m m m No change 76.1 84.6 8.5 0.25% rise in discount rate 73.1 84.6 11.5 3.0 0.25% fall in discount rate 79.2 84.6 5.4 3.1 0.25% rise in inflation 78.3 84.6 6.3 2.2 0.25% fall in inflation 74.0 84.6 10.6 2.1 Group Accounts 81 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Prearranged funeral plans a Contingencies and commitments Dignity Prearrangement Limited, Dignity Securities Limited and Advance Planning Limited are fellow members of the Dignity Group in the United Kingdom.
These companies have sold prearranged funeral plans to their clients in the past.
All monies from these sales are held and controlled by three independent Trusts, being the National Funeral Trust, the Dignity Limited Trust Fund and the Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans respectively.
Further details of the transactions can be found in the financial statements of these companies, which are available from 4 King Edwards Court, King Edwards Square, Sutton Coldfield, B73 6AP.
The Group has given commitments to certain of these clients to perform their funeral.
The agreed amounts payable to either the Group or to third party funeral directors will be paid out of the funds held in the Trusts.
It is the view of the Directors that none of the commitments given to these clients are onerous to the Group.
b Prearranged funeral plan trust assets The market value of the assets of the prearranged funeral plan trusts was 373.8 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 318.6 million in respect of 200,000 2009: 184,000 unfulfilled prearranged funeral plans.
The remaining 38,000 unfulfilled prearranged funeral plans related to those backed by Insurance Plans, as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The majority of the trustees of the prearranged funeral plan trusts are unconnected to the Group, as required by current UK legislation.
The trustees are required to have the Trusts liabilities actuarially valued once a year.
The latest valuations were performed as at 24 September 2010 2009: 25 September 2009 using assumptions determined by the trustees.
These valuations showed the Trusts to have liabilities in respect of the prearranged funeral plan trusts of 305.2 million as at 24 September 2010 2009: 257.9 million.
The corresponding market value of the assets of the prearranged funeral plan trusts was 357.9 million 2009: 305.4 million as at the same date.
Consequently the actuarial valuation recorded total surpluses of 52.7 million at 24 September 2010 2009: 47.5 million.
c Accounting reporting date The end of the reporting period of the financial statements of the Trusts is set at 31 December.
This may be different to the reporting period of the financial statements of Dignity plc, but by no more than 7 days.
30 Contingent liabilities a Securitisation On 11 April 2003, the Group refinanced its debt by way of a whole business securitisation.
On 21 February 2006 and 27 September 2010 further Secured Notes were issued on identical terms.
As a result, the following guarantees and charges were granted to BNY Corporate Trustee Services Limited in its capacity as Security Trustee in the securitisation: The Dignity 2002 Group have granted the Security Trustee fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of the Dignity 2002 Group: Dignity plc has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity 2004 Limited: Dignity 2004 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited and Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings Limited: Dignity Holdings Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Mezzco Limited: Dignity Holdings Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loans both interest and non interest bearing to Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity Mezzco Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loan to Dignity 2002 Limited.
At 31 December 2010, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 349.1 million 2009: 273.2 million.
Group Accounts 82 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 30 Contingent liabilities continued b Crematoria Acquisition Facility On 24 November 2008, the Group obtained a 10.0 million loan facility from the National Westminster Bank plc Nat West, which is fully drawn.
As a consequence of the legal structure of this facility: Dignity plc has granted Nat West, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity 2008 Limited: Dignity 2008 Limited has granted Nat West, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Crematoria Limited: Dignity 2008 Limited and Dignity Crematoria Limited have granted Nat West fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of each of Dignity 2008 Limited and Dignity Crematoria Limited: and Dignity plc have acted as guarantor in the event that Dignity 2008 Limited fails to pay interest due on the facility.
In the opinion of the Directors no liability is likely to crystallise in respect of these guarantees.
At 31 December 2010, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 10.0 million 2009: 10.0 million.
31 Related party transactions The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dignity plc.
On 19 May 2010, the Group entered into a contract with Bglobal to have smart meters fitted at some of its locations.
26,500 has been charged for the period.
James Newman is a NonExecutive Director of Bglobal and the transaction has been formally approved by the Board and is at arms length.
Prearrangement trusts During the period the Group entered into transactions with the Trusts associated with the prearranged funeral plan businesses.
The nature of the relationship with the Trusts is set out in the accounting policies.
Amounts may only be paid out of the Trusts in accordance with the relevant Trust Deeds.
Transactions principally comprise: The recovery of marketing and administration expenses in relation to plans sold net of cancellations: and Receipts from the Trusts in respect of carrying out funerals.
Transactions also include: Receipts from the Trusts in respect of cancellations by existing members: Reimbursement by the Trusts of expenses paid by the Group on behalf of the respective Trusts: and The payment of realised surpluses generated by the Trust funds as and when the trustees sanction such payments.
Related party transactions are summarised below: Amounts due to the Transactions during the period Group at the period end 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Dignity Limited Trust Fund 0.3 0.3 National Funeral Trust 21.2 16.8 1.1 1.5 Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans 25.0 17.9 1.3 2.1 32 Post balance sheet events The Group has acquired three funeral locations since the balance sheet date for a total consideration of 6.4 million.
