95 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shareholder information General enquiries may be addressed to the Company Secretary, Richard Portman, at the Companys registered office.
Other useful information is as follows: General information The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Company registrars Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars, should be directed in the first instance to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti.
They also provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.
co. uk where shareholders can check their holdings and find practical help on transferring shares and updating personal details.
Alternatively they can be contacted by telephone on 44 0 871 384 2674 if calling from within the UK, or 44 0 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK or by fax on 44 0 871 384 2100 if faxing from within the UK, or 44 0 190 369 8403 if faxing from outside the UK.
At the time of publication, calls to these numbers were charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
The prices charged by BT and other telephony providers may change from time to time.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Shareholder communications Following a change to company law, and subsequent shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholder documents are only sent in paper format to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in this way.
This approach enables the Company to reduce printing and distribution costs and its impact on the environment.
Shareholders who have not elected to receive paper copies are sent a notification whenever shareholder documents are published to advise them how to access the documents via the Group website at www.
Shareholders may also choose to receive this notification via email with a link to the relevant page on the website.
Shareholders who wish to receive email notification should register online at www.
co. uk click on Register under the Portfolio section.
You will require your Shareholder Reference Number, which is given on your share certificate or tax dividend voucher.
Choosing email notification will result in you joining the Equiniti Shareview Service in accordance with its terms and conditions, which you can find at www.
Share price information The latest Dignity plc share price can be obtained via the Companys investor website www.
It can also be obtained in the UK on Ceefax.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available upon request to the public and to other organisations which may use it as a mailing list resulting in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the receipt of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ or telephone 44 0 845 703 4599 for an application form.
Calls to this number are charged at local rate.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 June 2011, at 11.00am at DLA Piper UK LLP, Victoria Square House, Victoria Square, Birmingham, West Midlands, B2 4DL.
