Information for Shareholders Shareholder Information Registered office ShareGift Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share Registered No.
com donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the Registrars and transfer office scheme are available on the ShareGift website, www.
org Capita IRG plc, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA.
Tel: 0871 664 0300 Financial calendar calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open Annual General Meeting 8 September 2010 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
If calling from abroad Interim results announcement 25 November 2010 the number is 44 20 8639 3399.
The website address is 2010 11 Interim Statement publication January 2011 www.
com Joint brokers Alternative Format Citigroup Global Markets, JP Morgan Cazenove.
Shareholder enquiries If you would like this Annual Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet Report and Accounts or any via our Registrars secure portal at www.
com As well as checking name, address and shareholding details other shareholder documentation in the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of in an alternative format, address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms.
This is a secure site and you will need to register first.
Please follow please send a request to the simple instructions on the website.
So that the system can validate your enquiries an Investor Code is required.
com a numerical account number and can be found on both your share certificate and your dividend tax counterfoil.
Share dealing service Online and telephone share dealing services are available through our Registrars, providing easy access and simple to use services.
There is no need to pre-register and the facilities allow you to trade in real time and at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
In order to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor Code see above as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date of birth.
Details of the online dealing service are available on www.
com and the telephone dealing service is on 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8am to 4.30pm.
Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service for private investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Details are available from Cazenove.
CREST The Companys shares are traded on CREST.
CREST is a voluntary system which enables shareholders to hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than by paper.
Shareholders holding shares in this way can opt to receive their dividends through the CREST system.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged to make its share register available to third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7ER or register on their website at www.
uk 128 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
