Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard and regulations.
UK company law requires the directors to the assets of the Company and to take reasonable steps for prepare financial statements for each financial year and under the prevention and detection of fraud or any other irregularities that law, the directors have prepared the Group and the and for the preparation of a Directors Report and directors Company financial statements in accordance with International Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial European Union.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate The financial statements are required by law to give a true and and financial information included on the Companys website.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and of the profit or loss of the Group for the period.
In preparing and dissemination of financial statements may differ from the financial statements, the directors are also required to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a Responsibility statement manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and We confirm to the best of our knowledge: understandable information: and the Group and Company financial statements give a true and provide additional disclosures when compliance with fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable loss of the Group and Company, respectively: and users to understand the impact of particular transactions, the business and financial review includes a fair review of other events and conditions on the financial position and the development and performance of the business and the financial performance.
position of the Group and Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
In preparing both the Group and the Company financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and By Order of the Board applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as disclosed in the Directors Report and Business Review.
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury Chief Executive Group Finance Director 24 June 2010 24 June 2010 62 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
