Group financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Group and Company financial statements Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors remuneration and the financial statements Group and Company in accordance with applicable UK laws and regulations.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable UK law.
Further, they have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards UK GAAP and applicable UK law.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors and then apply them consistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which presents relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enables users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and State that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
In preparing the Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and with regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the Companys website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the website.
Information published on the Companys website is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DTR 4.1 statement Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out on pages 32 and 33 confirms that to the best of his knowledge, they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position and profit of the Group and the Company and of the Groups income statement for that period.
In addition, each of the Directors confirms that the management report represented by the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Signed on behalf of the Board Chris Moore Lee Ginsberg Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 15 February 2011 15 February 2011 60 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
