Financials Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 GLOSSARY 115 Ancillary services Company Frequency response service Services provided to National Grid used for Drax Group plc.
Services purchased by National Grid to maintain balancing supply and demand or maintaining system frequency.
secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits.
They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Availability Dark green spread Grid charges Average percentage of time the units were The difference between the price available in the Includes transmission network use of system available for generation.
market for sales of electricity and the marginal charges TNUoS, balancing services use of cost of production being the cost of coal and system charges BSUoS and distribution use other fuels including C02 emissions allowances.
Average achieved price Direct injection co-firing Group Power revenues divided by volume of net sales Is a process whereby biomass is fed directly Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
that is, avoiding the pulverising mills to the burners situated in the boiler walls.
Average capture price EBITDA IASs Revenue derived from bilateral contracts divided Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and International Accounting Standards.
by volume of net merchant sales.
amortisation, gain loss on disposal of fixed assets and unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts.
Balancing Mechanism ESIP IFRSs The sub-set of the market through which the The Drax Group plc Restricted Share Plan, also International Financial Reporting Standards.
System Operator can call upon additional generation known as the Drax Group plc Executive Share consumption or reduce generation consumption, Incentive Plan.
through market participants bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute by minute.
Baseload EU ETS LECs Running 24 hours per day, seven days per week The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is a Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence of remaining permanently synchronised to the mechanism introduced across the EU to reduce Climate Change Levy exempt electricity supplies system.
emissions of CO : the scheme is capable of being generated from qualifying renewable sources.
2 extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
Bilateral contracts Forced outage Load factor Contracts with counterparties and power Any reduction in plant availability excluding Net sent out generation as a percentage of exchange trades.
BMP Forced outage rate Lost time injury rate The Drax Group plc Bonus Matching Plan.
The capacity which is not available due to The frequency rate is calculated on the following forced outages or restrictions expressed as a basis: lost time injuries x 100,000 hours percentage of the maximum theoretical worked.
Lost time injuries are defined as capacity, less planned outage capacity.
occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more than 24 hours.
D rax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 116 GLOSSARY Net Balancing Mechanism Pond fines Technical availability Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and Coal dust and waste coal from the cleaning Total availability after planned and forced offers in the Balancing Mechanism.
and screening process which can be used for outages.
Net cash debt Power exchange trades Through-the-mill co-firing Comprises cash and cash equivalents, shortPower sales or purchases transacted on the Is a process whereby biomass passes first term investments less borrowings net of APX UK power trading platform.
through the pulverising mills before going to the deferred finance costs.
burners situated in the boiler walls.
Net merchant sales Power revenues Total recordable injury rate TRIR Net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts The aggregate of bilateral contracts and The frequency rate is calculated on the following and power exchange trades.
basis: lost time injuries worst than first aid hours worked x 100,000.
Net sales ROCs UK NAP The aggregate of net merchant sales and net Renewables Obligation Certificates.
Occupational health and safety SAYE Plan Underlying earnings per share assessment series OHSAS The Drax Group plc Approved Savings-Related Calculated as profit attributable to equity Share Option Plan.
shareholders, adjusted to exclude the after tax The OHSAS specification gives requirements for impact of unrealised gains and losses on an occupational health and safety management derivative contracts, divided by the weighted system to enable an organisation to control average number of ordinary shares outstanding occupational health and safety risks and during the year.
Planned outage SIP Winter A period during which scheduled maintenance is The Drax Group plc Approved Share Incentive The calendar months October to March.
executed according to the plan set at the outset Plan.
Planned outage rate Summer The capacity not available due to planned The calendar months April to September.
outages expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity.
welcome to Drax Drax is so much more than the uks larGest, cleanest anD most efficient coal-fireD power station we are focuseD on maximisinG value anD achievinG our vision of This report has been printed on Cocoon Silk which is 100% recycled and FSC certified.
This report was becominG a bolD, customer printed by an FSC and ISO 14001 accredited printer using vegetable orientateD power oil and soya based inks.
Generation anD supply This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed business, Driven by forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
biomass innovation ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against this years report which an organisation can be certified by a third party.
illustrates the six key priorities that will help us achieve this vision.
07 Drax is predominantly a power generation business responsible for meeting some 7% of the UKs electricity demand.
Currently owning and operating the largest power illustration station in the UK, we are committed to reducing our carbon Graphic Ad photography footprint.
Through the progressive expansion of the use of Lloyd Sturdy and Henry Thomas sustainable biomass, as a replacement for coal, we aim to provide a low carbon, low cost and low risk power generation Design and production business well into the future.
com At the other end of the supply chain, through our retail arm, print Granite Haven Power, we serve the needs of over 32,000 business customers.
Our intention is to grow a significant retail business providing us with a valuable alternative to trading through the wholesale electricity market.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
