GOVERNANCE Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2010.
The Directors At 23 June 2010, the Company has been informed of the following Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, as required by notifiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital in accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, is on page 58. the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Ordinary shares held % The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, during Schroder Investment Management Ltd 70,235,754 17.85% 2009 10, was engaged in the supply of corrugated and plastic Standard Life Investments Ltd 55,662,041 14.15% packaging and of recycled paper and the wholesaling of office products.
A full review of the activities during the financial year ended 30 April Sparinvest Holdings A S 19,992,238 5.08% 2010 is set out on pages 1 to 39.
The principal risks and uncertainties AXA S. A.
16,561,204 4.21% facing the Group are discussed on pages 32 and 33.
A discussion of Legal & General Group plc 13,536,366 3.44% future developments and key performance indicators that management use is set out in the Business Review on page 19.
The principal subsidiary ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS undertakings are listed in note 33 on page 104.
2009 10 BUSINESS REVIEW Wirth The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be On 17 February 2010, the Group obtained control of Winfried Wirth found in the Business Review on pages 1 to 39, which are incorporated in GmbH, a corrugated packaging business in Germany.
As a result, this report by reference.
the Groups equity interest in Wirth increased from 25% to 55%.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Demes Logistics The information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance On 6 January 2010, the assets of Demes Logistics, a plastic packaging Statement can be found in the Corporate Governance section on pages business in Germany, were sold.
42 to 45 and is incorporated into this report by reference with the Vale Paper Limited exception of the information referred to in the Financial Services Authority Deferred consideration of 0.2 million was paid in 2010 to Vale Paper Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6, which is located in this Limited in full settlement of the further consideration due.
2008 09 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Vale Paper Limited The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the On 2 September 2008, the Group acquired the assets of Vale Paper members of the Company and no-one else.
The Annual Report contains Limited, a waste paper collection business in the UK, for a consideration certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, of 1.2 million.
Further deferred consideration of 0.5 million was due performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, 18 months after the acquisition subject to certain performance measures these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances being achieved.
can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information The Group recognises the importance of continuing to invest in available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the research and development.
It is Group policy to develop new product Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking specifications commensurate with environmental needs and packaging statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a solutions required by customers.
Research is also conducted into ways profit forecast.
to improve product quality and to find more cost-efficient methods of RESULTS FOR THE YEAR production and distribution.
Research and development is conducted The financial results are shown on pages 60 to 111. within divisional operations and expenditure is not significant.
DIVIDENDS DIRECTORS An interim dividend of 1.5 pence net per ordinary share was paid The biographies of the present Directors are on pages 40 and 41.
All the on 2 March 2010 and the Directors recommend a final dividend of Directors served throughout the year except as follows.
Mr G M B Adams 3.1 pence net per ordinary share, making a total dividend to be paid resigned as a non-Executive Director on 26 May 2009 when he became for the year of 4.6 pence 2008 09: 4.4 pence net per ordinary share.
Chief Executive of Spicers, the Groups Office Products Wholesaling Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting division.
Mr R E C Marton retired from the Board on 31 August 2009. to be held on 7 September 2010, the final dividend will be paid on Mr J C Nicholls joined the Board as a non-Executive Director with effect 14 September 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of from 1 December 2009.
Mr A D Thorne retired from the Board on 4 May business on 13 August 2010.
The dividends per ordinary share stated 2010 and Mr M W Roberts joined the Board as Group Chief Executive above are those actually paid or to be paid.
Mr G Davis joined the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 June 2010.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement on SHARE CAPITAL page 15, Mr Beeston will be retiring from the Board at the end of 2010.
Details of the issued share capital and the rights and restrictions attached Other than as previously disclosed in this Report and in respect of existing to the shares, together with details of movements in the Companys issued service agreements, no Director, either during or at the end of the share capital during the year are shown in note 24.
No shares pursuant financial year, has been materially interested in any significant contract to the Companys executive share option scheme were issued between or arrangement in relation to the Groups business.
The Company has not In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized utilised its authority to make market purchases of shares granted to it at Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the 2009 Annual General Meeting but will be seeking to renew such the Directors disclose that the rules regarding the appointment and authority at this years Meeting.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Association Articles, which may only be amended with shareholder The Group is firmly committed to both the principle and realisation of approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
The powers of the equal opportunities in employment and its policies are designed to Directors are contained in the Companys Memorandum of Association provide such equality irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, and Articles.
The Articles give the Directors powers, subject to relevant sexual orientation, age or disability.
Every possible step is taken to ensure legislation, to authorise the issue and buy-back of the Companys shares that individuals are treated equally and fairly.
The Group applies the by the Company, subject to authority being given to the Directors by same criteria to people with disabilities as it does to other employees.
The Company annually seeks the Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining is offered to authority of shareholders to authorise the exercise by Directors of any employee who develops a disability during their employment.
PENSION FUND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Group had, in the year under review, four UK pension arrangements: The Articles require that all Directors who have either been appointed one defined benefit scheme which is closed to new employees, one by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, or for whom the defined contribution scheme, which was introduced for new employees forthcoming Annual General Meeting is the third Annual General Meeting joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005, one Group personal pension since they were elected or last re-elected by the Company in general plan and a statutory Stakeholder arrangement.
meeting, retire from office but they are eligible to submit themselves for The defined benefit scheme is a trust-based arrangement and the re-election by the shareholders.
Mr Nicholls, Mr Davis and Mr Roberts, investments of the assets are managed on a discretionary basis by have been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting a number of Investment Managers, either in segregated or pooled and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
The defined contribution scheme is a trust-based by rotation at the Annual General Meeting on 7 September 2010 are arrangement offering members a range of investments with AXA Sun Life Mr Bunker and Mr Mellier and being eligible, offer themselves for replc and other external investment fund managers as selected by the election.
As required by the Combined Code any non-Executive Director Schemes trustees.
The Group personal pension plan is a contract-based who has been in post for nine years or more, or who is non-independent arrangement offering members a range of investments with Norwich for any reason, is subject to annual re-election.
Mr Beeston has served Union Life and other external investment fund managers, and the for more than nine years and is submitting himself for re-election.
Stakeholder arrangement is provided through Investment Solutions Limited.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement on page 15, Mr Beeston All such assets are held independently from the Group.
The trustees of will be retiring from the Board at the end of 2010.
Formal performance the defined benefit scheme and the defined contribution scheme send evaluation has confirmed that the individual performance of the Directors an Annual Report to all members of the respective schemes.
The Trustee offering themselves for election and re-election has been effective and Company of the defined benefit scheme has an Investment Subthey have demonstrated commitment to the role.
Committee, established in line with the recommended guidelines of the DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES Myners Report.
Peter Murray of Allenbridge Investment Consultants is The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary appointed as an independent adviser to the Investment Sub-Committee shares of 10 pence each of the Company, including options granted but of the DS Smith Group Pension Scheme.
not yet exercised under the Performance Share Plan, Long-Term Incentive HEALTH AND SAFETY Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the The Group recognises its responsibilities and continues to promote all Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan were as shown in the tables on aspects of health and safety in the interests of its employees and members pages 52 to 54. of the public.
A Health and Safety Policy Statement has been approved DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES by the Board.
The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS arrangements for the benefit of its Directors in a form and scope which The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS The Company has a number of borrowing and related derivative facilities The Group is committed to frequent and effective employee provided by various lenders.
These facilities agreements generally include communications to promote the understanding and involvement of all change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of ownership its employees in the Groups business objectives and performance.
of the Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these Communications and personnel policies have been developed to reflect facilities.
These significant agreements are as set out in note 20. the philosophy of operating management.
Information is regularly On 3 March 2005, the Company, St Regis Paper Company Limited communicated by briefings and newsletters.
The Group operates a and BPB United Kingdom Limited now part of the Saint-Gobain Group European Works Council, with representatives drawn from across the Saint-Gobain entered into a supply agreement for the manufacture and entire workforce in the EU countries in which the Group operates.
supply of plasterboard liner paper to Saint-Gobain.
Saint-Gobain may Meetings are held to provide an exchange of transnational information terminate the agreement if there is a change of control in the Company.
At each meeting, presentations are made on the Groups business strategy, financial results, health and There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate safety and environmental performance.
The Group also has a number upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, of divisional national Consultation Forums which promote information such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is exchange, consultation and representation between the Group and considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the its workforce.
Business decisions concerning capital investment, business of the Group as a whole.
employment and training take into account the Groups public and local responsibilities.
The Group supports the involvement of its operations in local community activities.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 57 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the Directors are Although the Company does not follow any formal code or standard on required to: payment practice, the Company agrees terms and conditions in the UK select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: with each supplier, which include terms of payment.
The Company pays each supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms and conditions of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable order being satisfied by such supplier.
As DS Smith Plc is a holding and prudent: company, whose principal business is to hold shares in Group state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been companies, it has no trade creditors.
followed: and CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is The Group contributed 72,000 2008 09: 78,000 to charities in the inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
No payments were made to political parties.
Donations were made by operating divisions to support their local communities.
The Group also In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting supported a number of other charities across a range of causes.
Standard 1 requires that Directors: REGISTERED OFFICE properly select and apply accounting policies: From the end of August 2009 the registered office of the Company present information, including accounting policies, in a manner changed from 4-16 Artillery Row, London SW1P 1RZ to Beech House, that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Whitebrook Park, 68 Lower Cookham Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire information: SL6 8XY.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 7 September 2010, together with explanations of the Resolutions to be on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and proposed, appears at the back of this Annual Report.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a AUDITORS going concern.
Each Director confirms that: The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and the Companys auditors are unaware: and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of b he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual General Meeting.
corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and By Order of the Board dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in CAROLYN CATTERMOLE other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 23 June 2010 We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom By Order of the Board Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must MILES ROBERTS not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true Group Chief Executive and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or 23 June 2010 loss of the Company for that period.
STEVE DRYDEN Group Finance Director 23 June 2010 58 www.
