BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of DS Smith Plc b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing will be held at the Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on London EC2M 7QN, on Tuesday 7 September 2010 at 12 noon to 1 November 2011: consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and c the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or Resolutions 12 to 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after it expires and the Directors may allot 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the Auditors Report and shares or grant rights in pursuance of such offer or agreement financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010. as if this authority had not expired: and 2 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
d all previous unutilised authorities under section 80 of the 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
Companies Act 1985 and section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same 4 To elect Mr J C Nicholls as a Director of the Company.
are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Companies Act 5 To elect Mr M W Roberts as a Director of the Company.
2006 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to 6 To elect Mr G Davis as a Director of the Company.
be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
7 To re-elect Mr C J Bunker as a Director of the Company.
12 That: 8 To re-elect Mr P J-C Mellier as a Director of the Company.
a the Directors be given power: 9 To re-elect Mr R G Beeston as a Director of the Company.
i subject to the passing of resolution 11 to allot equity 10 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them are to be laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to by that resolution under section 551 of that Act: and determine the remuneration of the auditors.
ii to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 3 of that 11 That: Act sale of treasury shares for cash, in either case as if section 561 of that Act did not apply to the allotment but this a the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, in power shall be limited: accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security an offer or issue of equity securities but in the case of into, shares in the Company: the authority granted under resolution 11 a ii, by way of a rights issue only to or in favour of: i up to a maximum nominal amount of 13,111,863.10 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity I. holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act as may be practicable to their existing holdings: 2006 allotted under paragraph ii below in excess of and 13,111,863.10 : and II.
holders of other equity securities if this is required ii comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of the by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors Companies Act 2006 up to a maximum nominal amount of consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of 26,223,726.20 such amount to be reduced by any shares those securities: allotted or rights granted under paragraph i above in and so that the Directors may make such exclusions connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: or other arrangements as they consider expedient A to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, may be practicable to their existing holdings: and record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems under the laws B to holders of other equity securities if this is required by in any territory or the requirements of any relevant the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities: and and so that the Directors may make such exclusions or other B to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the arrangements as they consider expedient in relation to authority granted under resolution 11 a i and or by treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, shares virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 in represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical each case otherwise than under paragraph A above problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,966,779.46: of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 113 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 continued b this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 14 That, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a General Meeting of the Company after the passing of general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
1 November 2011: 15 That, with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: c all previous unutilised authorities under section 95 of the a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by Companies Act 1985 and sections 570 and 573 of the deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect: and Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act d the Company may, before this power expires, make an offer 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles or agreement which would or might require equity securities of Association: and to be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot equity b the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purpose of identification power had not expired.
be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in 13 That in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company is substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases of association.
within the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of By Order of the Board ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company in such manner and on such terms as the Directors may from time to time CAROLYN CATTERMOLE determine provided that: Company Secretary Beech House a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be Whitebrook Park purchased is 39,335,589: 68 Lower Cookham Road b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is Maidenhead 10 pence exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : Berkshire SL6 8XY c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share 15 July 2010 is an amount equal to the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of any such purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : d the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2011 or, if earlier, 1 November 2011, save that the Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any time before the expiry thereof any contract or contracts to purchase its ordinary shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and e all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of ordinary shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING NOTES In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the i Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message Company as at 6pm on 5 September 2010 shall be entitled to a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the registered in their names at that time.
information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes ii Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in iii is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the of the Company.
CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to iii A proxy may be appointed by any of the following methods: retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies completing and returning the enclosed Form of Proxy: or appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee by logging onto the Registrars website www.
co. uk through other means.
using the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number printed on the Form of Proxy enclosed.
Shareholders CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or who have already registered with the Registrars online voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make portfolio service Shareview can submit a proxy by logging available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
into their profile at www.
co. uk and clicking on the Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation link to vote under Your DS Smith Plc holding details: or to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the members of CREST should use the CREST electronic CREST Member concerned to take or, if the CREST Member is a appointment service see vii below.
CREST personal Member or sponsored Member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or If two or more valid but differing appointments of a proxy are voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to received in respect of the same share for use at the same meeting, ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST Members and, signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the others as where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual received last, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
To be effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the Registrars at The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the the address shown on the Form not later than 48 hours before the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated time of the Meeting.
Completion and return of the Form will not, Securities Regulations 2001.
The CREST Manual can be reviewed however, prevent a Member from attending and voting at the at www.
A Member must inform the Registrars in writing of any termination of the authority of a proxy.
viii As at 23 June 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital iv Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated consists of 393,355,893 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 June 2010 rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a are 393,355,893. right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a ix A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has a person or persons to act as its representative s at the Annual no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they General Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Companies Shareholders the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Rights Regulations 2009, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation v The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, of proxies in Notes ii and iii above does not apply to Nominated provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated exercised by shareholders of the Company.
vi Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the x Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require relating to their investments in the Company.
the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any vii CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be Meeting to be held on 7 September 2010 and any adjournment s laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office CREST personal Members or other CREST sponsored Members, since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports and those CREST Members who have appointed a voting service were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with their behalf.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 115 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 continued sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the EXPLANATORY NOTES ON THE RESOLUTIONS Company is required to place a statement on a website under Resolution 1: section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the Report and financial statements statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the makes the statement available on the website.
The business which Reports of the Directors and Auditors and the financial statements of the may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any Company for the year ended 30 April 2010.
These are contained in the statement that the Company has been required under section 527 Annual Report.
of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Resolution 2: xi Any member attending the Meeting has the right to ask questions.
Declaration of a final dividend The Company must cause to be answered any such question Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the amount relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the recommended by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, shareholders will preparation for the Meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential declare a final dividend.
The amount of the final dividend recommended information, b the answer has already been given on a website in by the Directors is 3.1 pence net per ordinary share.
the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the Resolution 3: interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the Approval of Report on Remuneration question be answered.
As required by section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder xii A copy of this Notice, and other information required by approval is sought for the Remuneration Report set out on pages 46 section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in the to 55.
Annual Report section of the Investors page on our website Resolutions 4-9: www.
Election and Re-election of Directors xiii Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, The Articles of Association of the Company require that a Director Members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting shall be subject the right to require the Company i to give, to Members of the to election by the shareholders.
Mr Nicholls was appointed as a Director Company entitled to receive Notice of the Meeting, notice of a with effect from 1 December 2009 and, in accordance with the Articles, resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be he retires from office at the Meeting.
He is a member of the Nomination moved at the Meeting and or ii to include in the business to and Audit Committees and, from the end of June 2010, Chairman of the be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed Audit Committee.
Mr Roberts was appointed a Director with effect from resolution which may be properly included in the business.
4 May 2010 and, in accordance with the Articles, he retires from office A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be at the Meeting.
He is a member of the Nomination and General Purposes included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only it Committees.
Mr Davis was appointed as a Director with effect from would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency 1 June 2010 and, in accordance with the Articles, he retires from with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, office at the Meeting.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Remuneration Committees and, from the end of June 2010, Chairman Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must of the Remuneration Committee.
Being eligible they offer themselves identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to for election.
be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than The Articles of Association of the Company require that all Directors 26 July 2010, being the date six clear weeks before the Meeting, retire from office at least once every three years but are eligible to submit and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The Directors who retire at must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for each Annual General Meeting are those who would otherwise have the request.
served for over three years without re-election by the date of the following xiv Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection Annual General Meeting.
at the Companys Registered Office and at the offices of Allen & Mr Bunker will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD during normal this years Annual General Meeting.
Mr Bunker is the Senior Independent business hours and at the place of the Meeting from 11.45am until Director, and a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination its conclusion: Committees.
Mr Mellier will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for a service contracts of the Executive Directors: re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
Mr Mellier is a member b letters of appointment of the Chairman and the non-Executive of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors: As required by the Combined Code any non-Executive Director who c the current Memorandum and Articles of Association marked has been in post for nine years or more, or who is non-independent for to show the proposed changes: and any reason, is subject to annual re-election.
Mr Beeston has served for more than nine years, will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for d the proposed new Articles of Association.
re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
As mentioned in the xv The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Chairmans Statement on page 15, Mr Beeston will be retiring from the Committees will be available to answer relevant questions at Board at the end of 2010. the Meeting.
A biography of each Director, including those seeking election or re-election, appears on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING Resolution 10: Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this Re-appointment of Auditors and Auditors remuneration authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2011. meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 10 proposes the Resolution 13 re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors, Deloitte LLP, until the Companys authority to purchase shares next Annual General Meeting and also gives authority to the Directors to This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to determine the auditors remuneration.
renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares Resolution 11: in the market.
This authority gives the Company greater flexibility in Authority to allot shares managing its capital resources.
The Directors have no specific intention At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 September 2009, shareholders of using this authority and would do so only when, in the light of market authorised the Directors, under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, conditions, they believed that the effect of such purchases would be to allot relevant securities without the prior consent of shareholders for a to increase earnings per share, and that the purchases were in the period expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be interests of shareholders generally.
The Directors would also give careful held in 2010 or, if earlier, on 1 November 2010.
It is proposed to renew consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its general financial this authority and to authorise the Directors under section 551 of the position.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe Resolution 13 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be for or convert any security into shares in the Company for a period purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued expiring no later than 1 November 2011. share capital at 23 June 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the minimum and maximum prices at which Paragraph a i of Resolution 11 will allow the Directors to allot they may be bought and when the authority will expire, reflecting the ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 13,111,863.10 requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
representing approximately one third 33.33% of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as at 23 June 2010 being the latest The minimum price at which the shares may be purchased is their nominal practicable date prior to publication of this circular.
In accordance with value and the maximum price is the higher of 5% above the average of the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British the middle market values of those shares for the five business days before Insurers, paragraph a ii of Resolution 11 will allow Directors to allot, the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of Resolution Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
The Companies Act 2006 11, further of the Companys ordinary shares in connection with a enables certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by the up to a maximum nominal amount of 26,223,726.20, representing Company.
Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold approximately two thirds 66.67% of the Companys existing issued for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under the share capital and calculated as at 23 June 2010 being the latest Companys share schemes.
Once held in treasury, the Company is not practicable date prior to publication of this circular.
The Directors have entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if they do meetings, in respect of those shares.
Further, no dividend or distribution of exercise the authority, the Directors intend to follow emerging best the Companys assets may be made to the Company in respect of those practice as regards its use including as regards the Directors standing shares whilst held in treasury.
for re-election in certain cases, as recommended by the Association of Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution British Insurers.
13, the Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury Resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew this rather than cancelling them.
The total number of ordinary shares that are authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, under option through the Companys share option schemes at 23 June if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2011.
2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice is 4,992,145 of which 4,091,868 are options over unissued ordinary Resolution 12 shares.
The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options Directors powers to disapply pre-emption rights over unissued ordinary shares represented on this date was 1.04% and Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was passed, under the proportion of issued ordinary share capital that they will represent section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, empowering the Directors to if the full authority to purchase shares existing and being sought is allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such used is 0.95%.
The authority will expire on 1 November 2011 or at shares to existing shareholders.
It is proposed that this authority also be the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting whichever is the renewed under section 560 of the Companies Act 2006.
It is the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar the Resolution will authorise the Directors to issue shares in connection authority annually.
with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,966,779.46 which includes the sale on Resolution 14 a non pre-emptive basis of any shares the Company may hold in treasury Notice of general meetings for cash.
The maximum nominal amount of equity securities to which this Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Companies authority relates represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights of the Company as at 23 June 2010 being the latest practicable date Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings prior to publication of this circular.
of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
The Directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling days notice.
three year period without prior consultation with the shareholders and the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 117 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010 continued Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on b Authorised share capital and unissued shares 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice without to have an authorised share capital, and the New Articles reflect this.
In order to preserve this ability, Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any Resolution 14 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employees share schemes.
a similar resolution will be proposed.
c Redeemable shares Note that if a general meeting is called on less than 21 clear days Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue notice, the Company will make a means of electronic voting available redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner to all shareholders for that meeting.
of redemption, whereas the Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters themselves, provided that they are authorised to The flexibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into do so by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation for account the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in the Directors.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but, relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of the Company if it did so, the Directors would need shareholders authority to issue new and shareholders as a whole.
Resolution 15 d Conversion of shares into stock Adoption of new Articles of Association The Current Articles refer to a power for the Company by ordinary It is proposed in resolution 15 to adopt new Articles of Association resolution to convert its paid up shares into stock.
This is no longer the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles possible under the Companies Act 2006 and, accordingly, the provision of Association the Current Articles, primarily to take account of has been deleted.
the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006. e Suspension of registration of share transfers The Current Articles permit the Directors to suspend the registration The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised of share transfers.
This power has been removed in the New Articles below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying because it is inconsistent with the Companies Act 2006, which requires nature, and also some more minor changes which merely reflect share transfers to be registered as soon as practicable.
changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or the Shareholders Rights Regulations, have not been noted.
A copy of the proposed New Articles f Notice of general meetings and a copy of the Memorandum of Association and Current Articles, The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the Companies Act 2006 to marked to show all the changes proposed, will be available for inspection require the Company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings at the Companys registered office and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, unless the Company offers members an electronic voting facility and a One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, during normal business hours from special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days the date of this circular to the date of the Annual General Meeting, and at has been passed.
Annual General Meetings must be held on 21 clear the place of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to days notice.
The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current the meeting and until the conclusion of the meeting.
Articles to be consistent with the new requirements.
a The Companys objects g Adjournments for lack of quorum Prior to 1 October 2009, the provisions regulating the operations of the Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Company were set out in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held Association.
The Companys Memorandum contained, among other at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The New Articles amend things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the the provisions of the Current Articles to reflect this requirement.
Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide h Chairmans casting vote scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional The New Articles remove the provision in the Current Articles giving the significance of a companys memorandum, providing that a memorandum Chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes, as this is no will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006. subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in i Voting by proxies on a show of hands a companys memorandum are deemed to be contained in the companys The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act articles of association, but the company can remove these provisions by 2006 so that it now provides that, subject to a companys articles, each special resolution.
proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in which case the Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that, unless a companys articles proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason, the or more members to vote against the resolution.
The New Articles amend Company is proposing to remove its objects clause, together with all the provisions of the Current Articles to reflect these changes, and to other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies clarify the procedure to be followed if a proxy is appointed by more than Act 2006, are now treated as forming part of its Articles of Association.
one member and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more of Resolution 15 a confirms the removal of these provisions although, where those members.
appropriate, to preserve the status quo, certain Directors powers that were previously dealt with in the Memorandum have been added back j Voting record date and proxy appointment deadline into the New Articles.
As the effect of Resolution 15 a will also be to Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum of Regulations, the Company must determine the right of members to vote at Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain a general meeting by reference to the Register not more than 48 hours an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of IMPORTANT NOTES ABOUT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING days that are not working days.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows Date companies to set a time limit for the receipt of proxy appointments and Tuesday 7 September 2010. related documents that is not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days that are not Location working days.
The New Articles amend the Current Articles to reflect Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, these provisions.
k Voting in accordance with instructions Timing Under the Shareholders Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them by to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50am.
For the avoidance of doubt, the New Articles contain a The reception area will be open from 11.30am, from which time provision stating that the Company is not obliged to check whether a refreshments will be served.
proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with the Travel information members instructions.
A map on the reverse of the Admittance Card shows the location of the l Change of name Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel and the nearest underground and Prior to 1 October 2009, a company could only change its name by railway stations.
The venue is less than five minutes walk from Liverpool special resolution, but now, under the Companies Act 2006, a company Street station.
There are no car-parking facilities at the venue.
is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
Admission To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the Directors Please bring the Admittance Card which is the tear-off section at the to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
bottom of the Form of Proxy with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked m Scrip dividends to show the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders In line with market practice, the New Articles update the Current Articles and proxy holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.
to provide that the value of shares issued in connection with a scrip The registration process may take longer without these documents.
dividend may be determined by ordinary resolution, or by reference to Shareholders are politely requested to bring no more than one guest to the average middle-market quotation for shares of the same class on the the Meeting except by prior arrangement with the Company Secretary.
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the day on which the shares Facilities are first quoted ex dividend, and the four subsequent dealing days.
The Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair access.
The New Articles also allow the Directors the flexibility at any time before If you are planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, the further shares are allotted to decide that the dividend will be paid in it would be helpful if you would telephone the venue in advance on cash instead.
020 7618 5618. n General Enquiries and questions Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language of Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the the New Articles to the language used in the Companies Act 2006.
Staff from Equiniti will be on hand to provide advice Recommendation and assistance.
Your Directors believe that all the proposals in the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The Directors will be voting in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own shareholdings.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 119
