Dunelm Group plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2010 Financial statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and these are presented on pages 37 to 58.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
The annual financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except where financial instruments have been stated at fair value.
The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
Going concern The Group has considerable financial resources together with long standing relationships with a number of key suppliers and an established reputation in the retail sector across different geographic areas.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Directors Report and Business Review on pages 27 to 30.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Directors review on pages 10 to 14.
In addition note 17 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Use of estimates and judgements The presentation of the annual financial statements requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The key estimates and judgements used in the financial statements are as follows: Inventory provisions The Group provides against the carrying value of inventories held, based upon average losses incurred to clear old and discounted lines.
Dilapidations The Group provides for the full estimated costs of any dilapidations on stores where required.
Taxation There are transactions whose ultimate tax treatment is uncertain.
The Group makes provision for anticipated tax issues based on the likelihood of whether additional taxes may arise.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
If these estimates do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which losses might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax assets or liability will need to be revised in a future period.
Dunelm Group plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2010 Equity-settled share-based payments Certain employees and Directors of the Group receive equity-settled remuneration in the form of equity-settled share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
The cost equitysettled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value, determined using an appropriate pricing model, at the date at which they are granted.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the non-market vesting conditions are expected to be fulfilled, ending on the relevant vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period and is adjusted to reflect the Directors best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest based upon non-market conditions.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Revenue represents the proceeds from sales of goods and related services.
It excludes sales between Group companies and is after deducting returns, discounts given and VAT.
For the majority of sales, revenue is recognised at the point of sale with the exception of make-up charges for custom made products, where revenue is recognised at the point that the goods are collected, and gift vouchers, where revenue is recognised when the vouchers are redeemed.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Intangible assets These comprise software development and implementation costs and trademarks and are stated at cost less amortisation see below.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
These are as follows: software development 3 years trademarks 5 years Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: computer equipment 3 years freehold buildings 50 years fixtures and fittings 4 years motor vehicles 4 years office equipment 5 years plant and machinery 4 years leasehold improvements over the period of the lease The residual value of an asset, if significant, is reassessed annually.
Dunelm Group plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2010 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Current assets Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and then carried at amortised cost net of impairment provisions.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is derived using the average cost method and includes costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less cost to sell in the ordinary course of business.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Bank borrowings and borrowing costs Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial period in which they are incurred.
Borrowings are classed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments used are forward exchange contracts and are measured at fair value.
The fair values are determined by reference to the market prices available from the market on which the instruments involved are traded.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups treasury policy.
Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or a liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
For cash flow hedges that proportion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity, directly in the hedge reserve with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement.
Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness.
When the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedge cash flows affect the income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time-value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Share capital Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received net of any directly attributable incremental transactions costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Dunelm Group plc 45 Annual report and accounts 2010 Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a current legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefit to be derived by the Group from a contract is lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Expenses Property leases Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement evenly over the full term of the lease.
Where leases for land and buildings provide for fixed rent review dates and amounts, the Group accounts for such reviews by recognising, on a straight-line basis, the total implicit minimum lease payments over the non-cancellable period of the lease term.
Financing income expense Financing income expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange gains and losses.
Retirement benefits The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan using a third-party provider.
Obligations for the contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Share-based payment transactions The Group operates an employee share save scheme open to all employees with over six months service, enabling them to save money which may be used after three years to acquire shares in the Company at a predetermined price.
The Group also operates other share option schemes enabling certain employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
Fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Fair value is measured using the binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions applicable to the options.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest and amends the charge accordingly.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay the dividend.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be recognised.
Dunelm Group plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2010 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Adopted IFRS and IFRIC not yet applied IFRS 8 Operating segments IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The effect of the revision of IAS 27 is disclosed on page 41.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments and interpretations were in place but not yet effective: IFRS 1 Revised IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRSs IFRS 7 Revised IFRS 7 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Revised IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 1 Revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 27 Revised IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 34 Revised IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting IFRIC 13 Revised IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes The above will be adopted in the Group and Companys financial statements when they become effective.
When adopted none of the above standards or amendments are expected to have any significant impact on the financial statements of the Group or Company.
Revised IFRS 7 requires additional disclosure to better enable users to evaluate an entitys exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
Revised IAS 1 requires a reconciliation of each component of equity to be presented in the statement of changes in equity showing separately changes arising from items recognised in profit or loss, in other comprehensive income, and from transactions with owners acting in their capacity as owners.
