48 Group Accounting Policies Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies Eaga plc is a public company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 Registered No.
The address of the registered office is Eaga House, Archbold Terrace, Jesmond, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 1DB.
The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Eaga plc is a green support services group, a leading provider of residential energy efficiency solutions and deliverer of a range of outsourced programmes.
It works for and partners with a broad range of customers including central and local Government, utility companies, other private companies, domestic customers and the BBC.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, with the exception of segmental reporting as explained below.
Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed at the end of the Group accounting policies section.
Segmental Reporting During the period, the Group has completed an internal reorganisation to align business and reporting structures more closely to the Groups core markets.
This is the first set of full year financial results presented under this revised reporting structure.
The change in reporting segments does not have any impact on previously reported consolidated profits, net assets or earnings per share of the Group.
Following this restructuring the Group will report under the three following primary reporting segments: Carbon Services focuses on the developing carbon economy, including delivery into the CERT and CESP markets along with the opportunities arising in the international carbon markets: Heating and Renewables Services provides domestic heating and renewable energy solutions to Social Landlords, fuel poverty programmes and private householders: and Managed Services provision of outsourced end-to-end solutions to local and central Government and other commercial organisations.
The segmental information set out in note 1 to this report for year to 31 May 2009 has been restated to reflect this change in reporting structure.
In addition, the Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS8 Operating Segments.
The standard requires the reporting of segmental information in line with the information reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The Group has concluded that the CODM is the main Board of Directors.
The revised reporting segments, as set out in note 1, are in line with the format of reporting to the main Board of Directors.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies 49 New Standards and Interpretations From 1 June 2009 the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group: IFRS8: Operating segments IAS1 Revised: Presentation of financial statements IAS23 Revised: Borrowing costs IFRIC13: Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC14: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset IFRIC15: Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate Amendment to IAS39: Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, and IFRS7: Financial instruments: Disclosures, on the reclassification of financial assets Amendment to IFRIC9 and IAS39 regarding embedded derivatives Amendment to IFRS1: First time adoption of IFRS and IAS27: Consolidated and separate financial statements on the cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate Annual improvements to IFRSs 2008 Amendment to IAS32: Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS1: Presentation of financial statements on puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation Amendment to IFRS2: Share-based payments on vesting conditions and cancellations Annual improvements 2009 Amendment to IFRS2: Share-based payments Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions Amendments to IFRS1: for additional exemptions Amendments to IAS32: Financial instruments: Presentation on classification of rights issues The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
The impact of adopting IFRS8 is stated above, under IAS1: Revised, the Group has decided to present two separate performance statements.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: IFRS3 Revised: Business combinations Amendment to IFRIC14: Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC16: Hedges of a net investment including foreign operations IFRIC17: Distribution of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC18: Transfer of assets from customers IFRIC19: Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments IFRS9: Financial instruments Amendment to IFRS1: First time adoption Amendment to IAS24: Related party disclosures Amendment to IFRS7: Financial instruments: Disclosures Amendment to IAS39: Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement on eligible hedged items IAS27 Revised: Consolidated and separate financial statements The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups profits or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group using the purchase method of accounting, whereby the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
They are excluded from the consolidated financial statements from the date that control ceases.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Purchases of minority interests shareholdings result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group and are recorded in the income statement.
50 Group Accounting Policies continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies continued Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
When the financial year end of a subsidiary differs from the Groups year end, the subsidiary is consolidated using management accounts for the relevant period.
Joint ventures An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint control over its operating and financial policies.
The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, whereby the Groups share of joint venture income, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows are combined on a line-by-line basis with equivalent items in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Group recognises only the proportion of gains or losses on the sale of assets to joint ventures that is attributable to other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its share of gains or losses from joint ventures that result from the Groups purchase of assets from them until it re-sells those assets to an external entity.
Foreign Currency Translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially translated into the functional currency by applying the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences on monetary assets are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the original transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate when the fair value was determined.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign subsidiaries is the Canadian Dollar for Eaga Canada Inc, Eaga Canada Services Inc, Ark Solar Products Limited, Integrated Energy Systems Limited and Homeworks Services Inc: and Indian Rupees for Eaga Energy India Private Limited.
As at the balance sheet date, the assets and liabilities of those subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the closing rate of exchange at that date and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
The exchange differences arising on translation are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On transition to IFRS, the translation reserve was set to zero, as permitted under IFRS1.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign subsidiary is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign subsidiary are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign subsidiary and translated at the closing rate.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives at the following rates: Land and buildings 2% Alterations to leasehold property Period of lease Fixtures and fittings 20-33% Equipment including IT equipment 20-50% Motor vehicles 20-33% An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Any gain or loss arising on fide-recognition of the asset is recognised in the income statement in the period the asset is fide-recognised.
Assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies continued 51 Business Combinations and Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is recognised in non-current assets and measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration exchanged, including directly attributable acquisition costs, over the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees net identifiable assets at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the acquired net identifiable assets exceeds consideration, the excess or negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to those cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identified according to operating segment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Intangible Assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost on initial recognition.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is measured at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The Group has no internally generated intangibles which meet the recognition criteria.
Expenditure on internally generated intangibles is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of intangible assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Patent assets Over life of patent typically 5-20 years Computer software 2-5 years Acquisition intangibles Over life of the intangible asset typically 2-5 years Intangible assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets amortisation periods and amortisation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on fide-recognition of intangible assets is measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets and is recognised in the income statement in the period the asset is fide-recognised.
Impairment of Non-financial Assets At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where fair value cannot be determined then the recoverable amount will be determined by reference to value in use.
Value in use is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, in this case an individual asset will be included in a larger cash generating unit.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in that expense category consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each balance sheet date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of any amount recoverable.
A previously recognised impairment loss is only reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
52 Group Accounting Policies continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in first out basis and comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet include cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
Current asset investments include cash balances held on deposit for periods greater than three months and certain restricted cash balances including those in relation to the Groups self insurance activities.
These balances have been excluded from cash in the Groups balance sheet and cash flow statement.
Provisions Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably measured.
If the effect is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
A provision is recognised to cover dilapidations on buildings leased by the Group, as required in the leasing agreement.
The amount recognised is managements best estimate of the costs likely to be incurred in carrying out the remedial work required.
Employee Pension Obligations The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans.
The Group pays contributions to corporate or individually administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further obligation under these plans once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Permarock Products Limited, a subsidiary company, has a defined benefit plan for the benefit of 24 Partners.
The plan is closed to new members and all benefits accruing to current members are frozen.
The Group recognises a liability in the financial statements representing the net obligation under the plan based on a valuation from an independent actuary which is updated at least annually, but does not recognise an asset.
Movements in the net obligation are credited charged to the income statement.
Full IAS19 defined benefit disclosures are not given because the defined benefit obligation, plan assets and net surplus deficit are not material.
Leases Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life of the asset and the lease term.
The corresponding leasing commitments, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest components so that the interest element is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease at a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability outstanding.
All other leases are treated as operating leases with annual rentals, net of any incentives received, recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Where revenue has not been invoiced it is held within accrued income.
Certain of the Groups activities will also involve the subcontracting of installation of works to third parties.
Revenue for subcontracted installations is recognised on a principal basis where the Group ultimately retains the risks and rewards of these installations.
The Group generates revenue from three main segments being: Carbon Services Carbon Services generates revenue from the delivery of carbon saving measures to utility companies together with other related activities.
Revenue is recognised at the date of sale except if services are to be provided over future periods where the income is deferred and recognised over the relevant period.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies continued 53 Heating and Renewables Services Heating and Renewables Services generates revenue from the installation of energy efficient measures such as central heating and other renewable technologies including solar.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the number of energy efficient measures installed.
Managed Services The Group acts as lead contractor and principal on a number of contracts.
These contracts will typically involve multiple revenue streams.
Revenue is based on the fair value of each revenue stream and is recognised when the Group is contractually entitled to recognise the revenue.
Under certain long-term outsourcing contracts, revenue and profit are recognised based on the percentage completion method where the contract performance can be estimated reliably.
Construction Contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is measured by surveys or valuations of work performed to date.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred where it is probable those costs will be recoverable.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
Interest Income Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative at inception.
Any embedded derivative is separated from the host contract where the associated economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
The Group has reviewed its contracts and has not identified any significant embedded derivatives.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is measured as the difference between the receivables carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the receivables original effective interest rates.
The amount of any required provision is recognised in the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost and any difference between the net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Derivatives Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
54 Group Accounting Policies continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies continued The fair value movements of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 19.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 26.
The fair value of the hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified as current assets.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within administrative expenses.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Gain and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Redeemable preference shares Where redeemable preference shares exhibit the characteristics of a liability, they are recognised as a liability in the balance sheet, net of transaction costs.
The corresponding dividends on those shares are charged as interest expense in the income statement.
Fair valuation Fair values are based on market values where available.
Where market values are not readily available, the Group establishes fair value using valuation techniques: these include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis.
fide-recognition of financial instruments A financial asset is fide-recognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows.
A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Taxes Current tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates used to compute the amounts are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries or joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Accounting Policies continued 55 Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged direct to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also credited or charged to equity.
Share Capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity, as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Exceptional Costs Exceptional costs comprise items of expense that are material in amount and unlikely to recur and which merit separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
Examples of events giving rise to the disclosure of material items of expense as exceptional costs include, but are not limited to, impairment events, disposals of operations or individual assets, litigation claims against the Group and the restructuring of components of the Groups operations.
Dividends Dividends paid on Ordinary Shares are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are paid or approved by the Companys shareholders, whichever is earlier.
Self Insurance The Group has access to a protected cell which is registered and operational in Guernsey.
The protected cell provides insurance cover against the costs incurred by the Group in relation to certain repairs of new or refurbished central heating systems.
A liability, included within accruals and deferred income, is established based on the estimated costs of settling outstanding claims.
Share-based Payments The Group allows employees to acquire shares of the Company through share option schemes, details of which are in the Remuneration Report.
The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is only due to market-based performance not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The Group also operates a SIP under which qualifying Partners may receive free shares.
The fair value of the free shares are recognised as an expense in the income statement over the vesting period of the shares.
EPT-funded Charges To the extent that costs incurred by the Group are funded by EPT, whether by waiver of dividend or otherwise, the associated charges are treated in accordance with the Groups accounting policies with the exception that they are separately disclosed on the face of the income statement and excluded from EBITA.
Significant Accounting Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the above accounting policies, management has used estimates and judgements to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which have the greatest impact on the consolidated financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective and complex judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain and are set out below.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to select a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further details are given in note 13.
Depreciation and amortisation The Group determines appropriate depreciation and amortisation periods for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets held.
This requires the use of judgement as to the appropriate lives for each category of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Asset lives are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate.
There have been no significant changes in asset lives in the current financial year.
Revenue recognition Under certain long-term outsourcing contracts, the Group recognises revenue and profits based on the percentage completion method.
This requires management to make an assessment of the overall profitability of the entire contract in order to determine the level of revenue and profit to recognise.
