easyJet plc 96 Annual report and accounts 2010 Glossary Aircraft dry wet leasing Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements relate solely to the provision of an aircraft.
Payments to lessors under wet leasing arrangements relate to the provision of aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance.
Aircraft owned leased at end of year Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one months duration at the end of the year.
Available Seat Kilometres ASK Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Average fare Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers.
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit or loss on disposal of assets held for sale.
Gearing Net debt adjusted by adding seven times aircraft dry leasing payments for the year and deducting restricted cash divided by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net debt.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
Passengers Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers including no-shows, seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Return on capital employed ROCE Normalised profit after tax divided by average net debt plus average shareholders equity Return on equity ROE Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders funds.
Revenue The sum of revenue from ticket sales and ancillary revenue.
Revenue Passenger Kilometres RPK Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown.
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
Wed like to thank everyone who helped to produce this report: Paul Ablin, Mark Adams, Angela Bennett, Andy Berks, Warwick Brady, Mike Campbell, Joanne Flynn, Chris Gadsden, Paul Gibson, Val Goldine, Pamela Harrison, Andy Hodges, Bruce James, Chris Kennedy, Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie, Thomas Loizeau, Cath Lynn, Carolyn McCall obe, Shuhall Miah, Jonny Oser, Captain Jim Pegram, Giles Pemberton, Captain Dave Prior, Sir Michael Rake, Tom Smethers, Andrew Tempest, Bunmi Williams, Eira Williams and all of our employees across our network.
This annual report is printed on Revive Pure white silk, this paper is produced from 100% recycled fibre.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement and both are FSC certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This report is available at: http: corporate.
aspx Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
com Annual report and accounts 2010 Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF
