Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 93 Notes to the Company accounts a Income statement and statement of comprehensive income In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement.
The Companys profit for the year was 24.5 million 2009: 263.6 million.
Included in this amount are dividends received of 19.6 million 2009: 261.7 million, which are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
The Company recognised no other income or expenses in either the current or prior year.
The Company has seven employees at 30 September 2010 2009: nine.
These are the Non Executive Directors of easyJet plc: their remuneration is paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The Executive Directors of easyJet plc are employed and paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
Details of Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Report on Directors remuneration and in note 4 to the consolidated accounts.
b Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings were as follows: 2010 2009 million million At 1 October 65.7 700.2 Investments 200.0 Capital contributions 4.8 7.4 Capital distributions 641.9 At 30 September 270.5 65.7 Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Where subsidiary undertakings incur charges for sharebased payments in respect of share options and awards granted by the Company, a capital contribution in the same amount is recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to shareholders equity.
During the prior year a Group reorganisation was effected whereby a number of subsidiaries distributed their retained earnings and the majority of their share capital to easyJet plc.
These distributions, being satisfied by the transfer of amounts due from another subsidiary undertaking, are non-cash transactions and have therefore been excluded from the Company cash flow statement.
The principal trading subsidiary undertakings, all of which are included in the consolidated accounts, are shown below.
A full list of Group companies will be included in the Companys next annual return, in accordance with Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006.
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class and percentage of ordinary shares held easyJet Airline Company Limited England and Wales Airline operator 100% easyJet Switzerland S. A. Switzerland Airline operator 49% easyJet Aircraft Company Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100% easyJet Sterling Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100% easyJet Leasing Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100% The Company has a 49% interest in easyJet Switzerland S. A. with an option that expires in 2014 to acquire the remaining 51%.
easyJet Switzerland S. A. is consolidated as a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence over the undertaking.
A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the accounts on the basis that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an option to acquire those shares for a predetermined consideration.
easyJet plc 94 Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the Company accounts continued c Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 2010 2009 million million Operating profit 8.0 264.4 Adjustments for non-cash items: Unrealised foreign exchange differences 11.6 8.5 Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings 261.7 Changes in working capital: Decrease in amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 112.2 217.0 Increase decrease in amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 24.5 215.8 156.3 4.6 d Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company has given a formal undertaking to the Civil Aviation Authority to guarantee the payment and discharge of all liabilities of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The guarantee is required for that company to maintain its operating licence under Regulation 3 of the Licensing of Air Carriers Regulations 1992.
The Company has issued a guarantee in favour of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in relation to the processing of credit card transactions, and also in respect of hedging transactions carried out according to treasury policy.
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited and easyJet Leasing Limited, both subsidiary undertakings, in respect of their contractual obligations to Airbus SAS in respect of the supply of Airbus 320 family aircraft.
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of borrowings that financed the acquisition of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has also guaranteed the payment obligations for the lease of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has guaranteed certain letters of credit which have been issued by a bank on behalf of subsidiary undertakings.
No amount is recognised on the Company statement of financial position in respect of any of these guarantees as it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources.
e Related party transactions Transactions with subsidiary undertakings, which principally relate to the provision of funding within the Group, are carried out on an arms-length basis.
Outstanding balances are placed on intercompany accounts with no specified credit period, are unsecured, and bear market rates of interest.
f Subsequent events On 11 October 2010 the Company announced that, subject to shareholder approval in an Extraordinary General Meeting, agreement had been reached to resolve its ongoing dispute with easyGroup IP Licensing Ltd and Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou over the terms and operation of the easyJet brand licence.
Further details are given in note 27 to the consolidated accounts.
