COM STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of Directors responsibility in respect of the Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Group and Parent Company accounts in accordance with applicable The accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set law and regulations.
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company Company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law they are and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a required to prepare the group accounts in accordance with IFRSs as whole: and adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the The Directors report includes a fair review of the development parent company accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts whole, together with a description of the principal risks and unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the uncertainties that they face.
state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company accounts, the Directors are required to: Ian Mason, Simon Boddie, Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 28 May 2010 consistently: The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and for the Group accounts, state whether they have been prepared in completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: statements regarding the future financial positions, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the managements of for the Parent Company accounts, state whether applicable UK future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain departures disclosed and explained in the parent company words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and accounts: and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although will continue in business.
Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reflected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the which could cause actual results and developments to differ financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect Electrocomponents plc has no intentions or obligations to update fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
