FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WWW.
COM COMPANY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES As at 31 March 2010 Basis of preparation All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with flow or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the Profit UK Company Law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and Loss Account as they arise.
Cash flow hedge accounting The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or European Union and are presented on pages 42 to 78. a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company in equity.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised is exempt from the requirement to present its own Profit and immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
When the forecast Loss Account.
transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial Under Financial Reporting Standard 29, the Company is exempt asset or liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset Disclosures on the grounds that the parent undertaking, or liability.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the Electrocomponents plc, includes the Company in its own published recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative consolidated accounts.
Disclosures are provided in note 20 under gain or loss that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which comply with the Profit and Loss Account in the same period during which the the disclosure requirements of FRS 29. asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies under When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the Investments in subsidiary undertakings cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long-term loans are in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
included in the Balance Sheet of the Company at the lower of cost If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the and the expected recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Translation of foreign currencies The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of between their discounted contractual forward price and their current exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and forward price.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and Fair value hedge accounting losses on translation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, holding interest Financial instruments rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the swap exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
It principally employs forward Pension costs foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange The Company participates in Group operated defined contribution and rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating defined benefit pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are companies.
In addition there are also interest rate swaps which held separately from those of the Company in independently swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
In accordance with its treasury policies, the Company does not As allowed by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the Company is unable hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
to identify its share of the defined benefit schemes underlying assets Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as though it was a defined in line with the Companys risk management policies.
Hedges are contribution pension scheme.
The deficit of the scheme is included classified as follows: within the accounts of RS Components Limited.
Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a forecast transaction.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 81 Share-based payments The Company operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, the Long Term Incentive Option Plan LTIOP, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity and spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair values are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The Profit and Loss Account charge is then adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non-market performance related criteria.
All Profit and Loss Account charges relating to options held by members of other Group companies are charged to the appropriate Group company.
The Company has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby FRS 20, Share-Based Payments, is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
Depreciation No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% Warehouse systems 10%-20% Plant and equipment 10%-20% Mainframe computer equipment 20% Network computer equipment 33% Portable computers 50% Other office equipment 20% Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the course of the lease period.
The benefits of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the period up to the date on which the lease rentals are adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
Own shares held The Companys own shares held by the Electrocomponents Employee Trust are deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with employees as required by UITF 38: Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
