COM ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC SHAREHOLDERS Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, at their current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006, the Companies discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons Dividends and distributions jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, Company with information concerning interest in those shares or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Voting Rights Appointment and replacement of Directors Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 12 in number.
shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person and A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one reduce the maximum or minimum number of Directors.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and before the current calendar year shall retire by rotation.
In addition, for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which each Director, other than the Chairman and any director holding the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the shares.
an executive office shall retire at each Annual General Meeting following the ninth anniversary of the date on which he was Restrictions on voting elected.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to these Articles.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election.
Company with information concerning interests in those shares Powers of the Directors required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given Deadlines for exercising voting rights by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, adjourned meeting.
whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or Variation of rights obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights attached Significant Agreements: Change of control to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Transfer of shares Amendment of Articles of Association All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf special resolution.
of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in Company Registration uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The Company is registered in England, No: 647788.
