OVERVIEW BUSINESS BUSINESS REVIE REVIEW W GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 47 GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of consolidation a cash flow term: free cash flow, representing the Groups cash flow Electrocomponents plc the Company is a company domiciled in before financing activities is also disclosed.
The Group Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010 These measures are used by the Group for internal reporting comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to purposes and employee incentive arrangements.
The terms pension as the Group and the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity.
changes reorganisation, headline and free cash flow are not Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
All subsidiary defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similar accounts are made up to 31 March and are included in the Group measures disclosed by other companies.
Further to the IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Group are not a substitute for GAAP measures of profit or cash flow.
Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU Revenue adopted IFRS.
The Company Accounts continue to be prepared Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK statement on dispatch when the significant risks and rewards of GAAP and details of the Company Accounts, notes to the accounts ownership have been transferred.
Revenue represents the sale and principal accounting policies are set out on pages 79 to 88. of goods and services and is stated net of sales taxes and volume discounts.
Freight recharged to customers is included within revenue.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on 28 May 2010.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income and Basis of preparation expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in The accounts are presented in Sterling and rounded to 0.1m.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions They are prepared on a going concern basis as referred to in the with the jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the extent of the Directors report on page 26 and on the historical cost basis except Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the certain financial instruments detailed below.
same way as unrealised gains.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires Goodwill and other intangibles management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets written off against reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated 1 April 1998 has been capitalised and, under UK GAAP, was amortised assumptions are based on historical experience and various other on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, with a maximum factors believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the of 20 years.
results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
allows goodwill in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004 to remain as stated under UK GAAP.
The balance of goodwill as at Estimates and judgements 1 April 2004 is deemed to be the cost going forward.
Goodwill is not The preparation of accounts requires management to make amortised under IFRS.
Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of for impairment.
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
The cost of acquired intangible assets are their The significant judgements made in the accounts for the year ended purchase cost together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
31 March 2010 are: Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of the asset on a Pensions: the key assumptions and estimates relate to discount straight-line basis at the following annual rates: rates, inflation rates and increases to salaries and pensions in Trademarks 5% payment.
These are explained in more detail in note 7.
Computer software costs 12.5%-50% Goodwill: the Groups goodwill principally relates to the acquisition Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in of Allied Electronics Inc. in July 1999.
The key assumptions used the income statement.
The residual value, if significant, is reassessed to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill relate to future operating performance, cash flows and discount rates.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is set out in note 11. recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Statement of compliance Investments in jointly controlled entities The Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with The Group accounts include the Groups share of the total recognised International Financial Report Standards IFRS as adopted for gains and losses in one jointly controlled entity on an equity use by the EU.
Adjusted measures Property, plant and equipment Profit measures such as operating profit, profit before tax and Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
earnings per share are also presented as being results before pension The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, changes reorganisation income costs or as headline results.
Similarly direct labour and certain direct overheads.
COM GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and Media Publishing, Facilities, Information Systems, Electronics and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Each finance e-Commerce process expenses.
leased asset is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value Administration expenses comprise Finance, Legal and Human and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the Resources Process expenses, together with the expenses of the inception of the lease less accumulated depreciation.
No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest the following annual rates: receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses Freehold and leasehold buildings 2% and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised Plant and machinery 10%-20% in the income statement.
Mainframe computer equipment 20% Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it Network computer equipment 33% accrues, using the effective interest method.
The interest expenses Portable computers 50% component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income Other office equipment 20% statement using the effective interest rate method.
Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses Borrowing cost in the income statement.
The residual value, if significant, is Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Catalogue costs Impairment The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill are reviewed annually are expensed to the income statement when incurred.
Major to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such investments in new catalogue production systems are capitalised an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
as intangible assets and written off over the period during which the An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount benefits of those investments are anticipated, such period not to of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable exceed three years.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Operating leases The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a cost of sale and value in use.
The present value of estimated future straight-line basis over the course of the lease period.
The benefits cash flows is calculated using a pre tax discount rate that reflects of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the income current market assessments of the time value of money and the statement on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.
risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for Government grants the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and equipment are credited to the income statement at the same rate Inventories as the depreciation on the asset to which the grants relate.
The Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
unamortised balance of capital grants is included within trade and This cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.
Work in progress other payables.
and goods for resale include attributable overheads.
Employee benefits Trade and other receivables Pension costs Trade and other receivables are initially measured on the basis of their In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme fair value.
Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost using the providing benefits based on final pensionable pay for eligible effective interest rate method.
employees who joined on or before 1 April 2004.
The scheme is Net debt administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are independent Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings.
Cash of the Groups finances.
In addition there are defined benefit pension and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand and held with qualifying schemes in Germany and Ireland.
financial institutions in current accounts or overnight deposits net For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides of overdrafts with qualifying financial institutions.
Cash and cash a defined contribution pension scheme.
There are also defined equivalents include government securities, investment in money contribution schemes in Australia and North America and government market funds and term deposits with qualifying financial institutions.
schemes in France, Italy, Denmark and North Asia.
Obligations for Borrowings represent term loans from qualifying financial institutions contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an together with financial instruments classified as liabilities.
expense in the income statement as incurred.
Operating expense classification The cost of the defined benefit scheme charged to the income Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers.
statement comprises: current service cost, past service cost, Distribution and marketing expenses include all operating company expected return on scheme assets and the interest cost on the expenses, including freight costs and movements in inventory expected amount of unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities provisions, together with the Supply Chain, Product Management, within administrative expenses and distribution and marketing OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 49 expenses.
The Group has elected to adopt the amendment to IAS 19 rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign revised, which allows actuarial gains and losses to be recorded in exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense immediately.
Net investment in foreign operations Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to corporate bonds.
Assets are measured at their fair value at the equity.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation Share-based payment transactions differences prior to the date of transition 1 April 2004 do not need to The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed cumulative translation largest of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme differences at this date can be set to nil.
Thus, any cumulative translation SAYE, A US s423 scheme US employees only, the Long Term differences arising prior to the date of transition are excluded from any Incentive Option Plan LTIOP, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP future profit or loss on disposal of any entities.
The Group adopted and the Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
Details of these are provided this exemption.
in note 6 to the Group accounts.
Foreign currency transactions The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate expense with a corresponding increase in equity and spread over the ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are the options.
The fair values are calculated using an appropriate option translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
The income statement charge is then adjusted to exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the reflect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non market income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are performance related criteria.
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies include the cost of the share-based payment schemes and the Group that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates balance sheet includes the assets and liabilities of the schemes.
ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to administer the schemes, are shown within reserves.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS 2, The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure Share-Based Payment, is applied only to awards made after 7 to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational November 2002. and financing activities.
It principally employs forward foreign Tax exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable In addition there are also a number of interest rate swaps which swap income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold or respect of previous years.
issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the classified as follows: amounts used for taxation purposes.
Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in The amount of deferred tax provided is calculated using tax rates the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in or the deferred tax liability is settled.
cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a forecast transaction.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes temporary differences can be utilised.
in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
Foreign currency Financial statements of foreign operations All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues flow or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average income statement as they arise.
COM GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Cash flow hedge accounting Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments: Vesting Conditions Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge and Cancellations these amendments concern certain aspects of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a of the valuation of share-based payments and the impact of highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain a cancellation by a grantee.
These amendments have not had or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly a significant impact on the charges recognised to date for in equity.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised share-based payments.
immediately in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure these subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or amendments require additional disclosure of the basis of fair value liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity measurements and liquidity risks.
Note 20 reflects these additional and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss IFRS 8 Operating Segments this standard amends the that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the income requirements for disclosure of segmental performance and statement in the same period during which the asset acquired or does not have any effect on the Groups overall reported results.
liability assumed affects the income statement.
Note 2 reflects the new requirements.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs the amendment exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship generally eliminates the option to expense borrowing costs but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised qualifying asset as incurred, and instead requires the capitalisation in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
of eligible borrowing costs as part of the cost of the specific asset.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the There is no significant impact, as the Group generally funds cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised qualifying assets from gross cash resources and consequently immediately in the income statement.
does not have significant eligible borrowing costs.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference IFRIC 14 IAS19 The Limit of a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum between their discounted contractual forward price and their current Funding Requirements and their Interaction this interpretation forward price.
applies where regulatory funding requirements will result in an unrecognisable surplus arising in the future.
It has been adopted Fair value hedge accounting with effect from 1 April 2008.
There has been no impact as a result The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure of the adoption of this interpretation.
to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, using interest rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
The following standard and changes to existing standards and interpretations that have been endorsed, but the Group has decided The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of not to early adopt are: the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
The market value of changes in fair values of Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and amendments to IAS 27 derivatives designated as fair value hedges and changes in fair Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements are applicable for value of the related hedged item are recognised directly in the accounting periods commencing after 1 July 2009.
will affect the future accounting for acquisitions and transactions with non-controlling interests.
There will be no retrospective impact.
All loans due within more than one year not accounted for under fair value hedge accounting are held at amortised cost, which The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments approximates to fair value as interest repricing takes place on or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a regular basis.
a significant impact on the financial statements.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in accounting policies The following standard and changes to existing standards and interpretations that have been enacted, and have an impact on these accounts are: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements these amendments revise requirements for the presentation of the financial statements and do not affect the Groups overall reported results.
