Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting resolution 5 Auditors reappointment of the Company to be held on Thursday, 20 The Companies Act 2006 requires that auditors be January 2011 is set out on pages 131 to 135 of appointed at each general meeting at which accounts the annual report and accounts.
The following are laid, to hold office until the next such meeting.
notes provide an explanation as to why the The resolution seeks shareholder approval for the resolutions set out in the notice are to be put to reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
Committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, further information resolutions 1 to 7 are ordinary resolutions.
These on which can be found in the annual report and resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the accounts on page 28.
After considering relevant votes cast for or against are in favour.
information the Audit Committee recommended to resolution 1 Laying of Accounts the Board of directors that Ernst & Young LLP The directors are required by the Companies Act be reappointed.
2006 to present to the shareholders of the Company resolution 6 Auditors remuneration at a general meeting the reports of the directors and This resolution gives the directors the authority to auditors, and the audited accounts of the Company, determine the remuneration of the auditors for the for the year ended 30 September 2010.
The report audit work to be carried out by them in the next of the directors and the audited accounts have been financial year.
The amount of the remuneration approved by the directors, and the report of the paid to the auditors for the next financial year will auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a be disclosed in the next audited accounts of the copy of each of these documents may be found in the Company.
annual report and accounts, starting at page 11. resolution 7 Authority to the directors to resolution 2 remuneration report allot shares The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company The Companies Act 2006 provides that the directors to seek shareholder approval for the directors may only allot shares if authorised by shareholders remuneration report at the general meeting before to do so.
Resolution 7 will, if passed, authorise the which the Companys annual accounts are laid.
The directors to allot the Companys unissued shares up directors remuneration report is included in the to a maximum nominal amount of 8,432,113.96, annual report and accounts, starting at page 33.
If which represents an amount which is approximately shareholders vote against the report the directors will equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital still be paid, but the Remuneration Committee will of the Company as at 2 December 2010 excluding reconsider its policy.
treasury shares, the latest practicable date prior to resolutions 3 and 4 reappointment of the publication of the notice.
Mr G E Tuppen and Mrs S E Murray As provided in paragraph a of the resolution, up to The Companys articles of association require that half of this authority equal to one-third of the issued any director who was not appointed or reappointed at ordinary share capital of the Company will enable either of the last two annual general meetings before directors to allot and issue new shares in whatever this meeting must retire, although they may offer manner subject to pre-emption rights they see fit.
Accordingly, Paragraph b of the resolution provides that the Mr G E Tuppen and Mrs S E Murray are retiring and remainder of the authority equal to a further one-third seeking reappointment.
Biographical information for of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company Mr G E Tuppen and Mrs S E Murray is shown on may only be used in connection with a rights issue pages 9 and 10 of the annual report and accounts.
in favour of ordinary shareholders.
As paragraph a Details of why the Board believes they should be imposes no restrictions on the way the authority may reappointed are included in the directors report in the be exercised, it could be used in conjunction with annual report and accounts, starting at page 11.
136 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting paragraph b so as to enable the whole two-thirds The directors consider this authority necessary authority to be used in connection with a rights in order to give them flexibility to deal with issue.
Where usage of the authority exceeds the oneopportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions third threshold in the circumstances set out in the contained in the resolution.
guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers resolution 9 purchase of own shares by the the ABI the directors will stand for re-election at Company the following AGM, to the extent required by the ABI.
If passed this resolution will grant the Company The authority will expire at the earlier of the date authority for a period of up to fifteen months after that is fifteen months after the date of the passing of the date of passing of the resolution to buy its own the resolution and the conclusion of the next Annual shares in the market.
The resolution limits the number General Meeting of the Company.
of shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury Passing resolution 7 will ensure that the directors shares as at 2 December 2010, the latest practicable continue to have the flexibility to act in the best date prior to the publication of the notice.
The price interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by per ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at issuing new shares.
There are no current plans to issue a minimum amount excluding expenses of 2 pence new shares except in connection with employee share per ordinary share and a maximum amount excluding schemes.
expenses of the higher of: i 5% over the average of As at 2 December 2010, the latest practicable date the previous five business days middle market prices: prior to the publication of the notice, the Company and ii the higher of the price of the last independent had 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each trade and the highest current independent bid on the in issue and held 50,000,000 treasury shares, which trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
This is equal to approximately 9.88% of the issued share authority will only be exercised if market conditions capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as make it advantageous to do so.
The directors present intention is that shares resolutions 8, 9, 10 and 11 are special purchased pursuant to this authority will be cancelled resolutions.
These resolutions will be passed immediately on purchase.
Alternatively, the shares if not less than 75% of the votes cast for and may be held in treasury, sold for cash or provided against are in favour.
Listing Rule requirements are met transferred to an employee share scheme.
The effect of any resolution 8 partial disapplication of statutory cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares pre-emption rights in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury, The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for Company issues new shares for cash or sells any example, they carry no voting rights and do not rank treasury shares, it must first offer them to existing for dividends.
The directors will only make purchases shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
under this authority if they believe that to do so would It is proposed that the directors be authorised to result in an increased earnings per share and would issue shares for cash and or sell shares from treasury be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
up to an aggregate nominal amount of 694,971.78 representing approximately 5% of the Companys As at 2 December 2010, the latest practicable issued ordinary share capital as at 2 December 2010, date prior to the publication of the notice, options the latest practicable date prior to the publication of were outstanding over 23,600,012 ordinary shares the notice without offering them to shareholders first, of 2 pence each in the Company, representing and to modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal approximately 4.66% of the issued share capital of with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may the Company excluding treasury shares at that date.
arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
If the proposed market purchase authority were used If resolution 8 is passed, this authority will expire at in full, shares over which options were outstanding the same time as the authority to allot shares given would, as at that date, represent approximately 5.49% pursuant to resolution 7. of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 137 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting resolution 10 Adoption of new Articles of Association It is proposed in resolution 10 to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles to reflect the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK in August 2009 and to take account of the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006, have not been noted below.
A copy of the Current Articles and New Articles will be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to Friday public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company from the date of posting of this document up to, and including, the date of the Annual General Meeting and will also be available at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD.
resolution 11 Approving the notice period for General Meetings Following implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, in order to maintain its ability to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice, the Company must offer all shareholders the ability to appoint a proxy electronically via the website of the Company or its registrars and must obtain the approval of its shareholders by means of a special resolution passed each year.
It is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed at future Annual General Meetings.
138 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Summary of principal Changes to the Current Articles of Association 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions 6.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate The Companies Act 2006 provides that each proxy provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are appointed by a member has one vote on a show of in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
The hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than principal amendments to reflect this approach are one member in which case the proxy has one vote for included in the changes detailed below.
and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution 2. redeemable shares and by one or more members to vote against the Under the Companies Act 1985, if the Company resolution.
The New Articles reflect these changes and wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to contain a provision clarifying how a proxy may vote include in its articles the terms and the manner on a show of hands where the proxy is mandated to of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables vote one way by one appointor and given discretion as directors to determine such matters instead, provided to how to vote by another appointor.
The New Articles they are so authorised by the articles.
The New also provide that the Company is not responsible Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company for ensuring that a proxy is complying with his duty has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did under the Companies Act 2006 to comply with the so the Board would need shareholders authority to appointors voting instructions.
issue new shares in the usual way.
Time for deposit of proxies 3.
Variation of class rights The New Articles take advantage of a change The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the introduced by the Companies Act 2006 under which, variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific when setting the latest time for delivery of proxies, quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary the Board may fix a period of up to 48 hours but class rights are contained in the Companies Act 2006. ignoring any part of a day that is not a working day.
The relevant provisions have therefore been deleted in the New Articles.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares and reduce share capital Under the Companies Act 1985, the Company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or subdivide its shares or to reduce its share capital.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company only requires shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 2006, general meetings adjourned for lack of a quorum must be held at least ten clear days after the original meeting.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 139 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Enterprise Inns award-winning pubs 2010 Albion, Clifton MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Hume Arms, Torksey MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional Winner, Best Newcomer East and West Midlands Anglesea Arms, Hammersmith MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Inn @ West End, Woking BII Licensee of the Year Awards 2010 Finalist Avalon, London MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 - Regional Winner, Best Creative Outdoor Area London The Good Pub Guide 2011 Dining Pub Surrey Publican Awards 2010 Finalist, Pub Design of the Year Award Mark Cross, Crowborough Publican Awards 2010 Finalist, Customer Service Pub of the Year and Bar Person of the Year Bay Horse, Huddersfield Publican Awards 2010 Finalist, Music Pub of the Year Publican Food and Drinks Awards 2010 Finalist, British Food Pub of the Year Bay Horse, Hurworth MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Maypole Inn, Thurloxton MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional MA Gastropub Chef of the Year 2010 Winner Winner - Best Green Pub West Country Beaumont, Clayton Le Woods ACE Awards Alcohol Certificate of Noel Arms rutland Radio Awards 2010 - Winner, Best Restaurant Pub and Excellence Gold Award, Best Pub Chorley Best Customer Service Brickmakers, Norwich MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional parkers Arms, Newton MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional Winner, Best Entertainment Pub East Anglia and Best Live Music East Winner, Best Turnaround Pub North West Anglia Publican Food and Drinks Awards 2010 Finalist, Chef of the Year Bulls Head Hotel, Sale CAMRA Winter Pub of the Year 2010 Winner pear Tree, Bamber Bridge ACE Awards Alcohol Certificate of Excellence Entry into the Good Beer Guide Gold Award, Best Pub South Ribble and Best Pub Southern Division Butchers Arms, Greens Norton MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 phoenix Tavern, Faversham MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional Winner, Best Family Pub East and West Midlands Regional Winner, Best Newcomer South East Butchers Arms, Hepworth MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Winner, piper, Kettering CAMRA Winner, Pub of the Winter Northamptonshire Best Gastropub Yorkshire and North East and Category Winner potting Shed, Crudwell Sawdays Pubs and Inns of England and Wales Publican Awards 2010 Finalist, Newcomer of the Year Award and Food Guide 2011 Winner, The Local, Seasonal and Organic Produce Pub of the Year Award The Good Pub Guide 2010 National New Pub of the Year Butchers Arms, Towcester MA Great British Pub Food Awards 2010 - Highly Commended, Indian Food Pub of the Year The Good Pub Guide 2011 National Dinning Pub of the Year Canbury Arms, Kingston upon Thames MA Great British Pub Awards MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 2010 Regional Winner Best Tenanted Leased Pub London and Best raven, Wakefield Wakefield Civil Society Awards Runner up, Outdoor Family Pub Signage and Patio Beer Garden Canton Arms, Stockwell MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 riflemans Arms, Glastonbury MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Castle Eden Inn, Castle Eden BBC 1 Masterchef the Professionals - Regional Winner, Best Live Music West Country Finalist ring o Bells Inn, Thornton MA Great British Pub Food Awards 2010 Castle Inn, Cold Ash West Berkshire Community Pub 2010 Winner Runner up, Seafood Pub Chef of the Year Clapham, North Clapham Taste of London 2010 Winner, Best Hidden royal oak Inn,  MA Great British Pub Awards Gem Award 2010 Regional Winner, Best Tenanted Leased Pub North West Cricket Inn, Totley MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 royal oak, Horfield The Bristol Evening Post Awards 2010 Winner, Best Garden and Best Overall Pub Cross Scythes, Totley MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 - Regional Winner - Best Tenanted Leased Pub Yorkshire and North East Saint James, Brighton Publican Food and Drinks Awards 2010 Finalist, Spirits Pub of the Year Earl of March, Lavant Southern Media Group Business Awards 2010 Winner, Restaurant of the Year MA 200 Best Drinks Offer Awards 2010 Winner Famous Lord Nelson, Burton Joyce MA Gastropub Awards 2010 Sandrock, Wrecclesham MA Great British Pub Food Awards 2010 Finalist and Winner of the MA Business Innovation Award Runner up, Game Pub Chef of the Year Fox and Hounds, Newmillerdam Five Star Rating from County Council Station Hotel, Andover Hampshire City Council and Visit England Winner, Hospitality Award Golden Boar, Freckenham Velvet Magazine Fine Dining Awards 2010 Winner, Fine Dining Restaurant Newmarket, Cambridge, Bury St Station Inn, Derby National Pubwatch Awards 2010 Personality of Edmunds and the surrounding areas the Year Graziers Arms, Wakefield Wakefield Civil Society Awards Runner up, Station Inn, Whitby MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional Outside Trading Area Winner, Best Cask Beer Pub Yorkshire and North East Great Eastern, Brighton Publican Food and Drinks Awards 2010 Talbot Inn, Calne Wiltshire Gazette and Herald Best Pub Sunday Lunch Finalist, Spirits Pub of the Year Wiltshire Halsey Arms, pulham MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 - Regional Thomas Lord, petersfield MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Winner, Best Community Pub West Country White Horse Inns, ramsden Heath MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Harwood Arms, Fulham MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Winner, Best Family Pub and Regional Winner, Best Family Pub East Anglia Michelin Guide 2010 First star awarded Whitehouses Inn, retford MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional Winner, Best Food Pub East and West Midlands Time Out Eating and Drinking Awards 2010 Winner, Best New Gastropub Windmill, peterborough MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional Winner, Best Tenanted Leased Pub East Anglia Hootananny, Brixton MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Winner, Best Live Music Pub of the Year UK MA 200 Winners Best Individual Independent Multiple Retailers Horns, Watford MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Regional Winner, Best Live Music South East Horseshoe, Shipston on Stour CAMRA Winner, Shakespeare Pub of the Summer 2010 140 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Four O Nine at Clapham North We applaud the exceptional commitment, innovation and business skills of an unprecedented number of our awardwinning licensees who, despite the challenging market, continue to be Four O Nine at Clapham North, Clapham recognised for their achievements: Taste of London 2010 Winner, Best Hidden Gem Multiple operator, Sarah Wall, has invested heavily to create this gem above the Clapham North pub.
Hidden from Claphams busy high street, the Four O Nine is accessible through a private entrance, with only a discreet brass plaque to invite diners to enter the Manhattan loft-style restaurant.
Sarahs chef, Chris Sutherland, enchants guests with his beautifully presented French cuisine.
Horseshoe Inn Horseshoe Inn, Shipston on Stour CAMRA Shakespeare Pub of Hootananny, Brixton Hootananny the Summer 2010 MA Great British Pub Awards 2010 Baggy, Sheelagh and Gabe Saunders Winner, Best Live Music Pub of the Year UK won this accolade after a mere 18 The Hootananny may have the largest beer garden in months of trading at the Horseshoe.
South London, but sister and brother duo Sophia Yates The Horseshoe is a quintessential early and Kit Fraser have ensured the pub is best known for seventeenth-century half timbered its variety of live music.
Customers flock from far and market town tavern, offering cask ales, wide to enjoy the unique atmosphere in the beautiful an excellent selection of wines and Earl of March Victorian building.
Earl of March, Lavant MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Southern Media Group Business Awards 2010 Restaurant of the Year In the two years since occupation, Giles Thompson former Executive Chef at the Ritz and his wife Ruth have transformed the Earl of March into a multi awardwinning pub.
The pub has also featured in a number of publications, including Jamie Olivers magazine.
Harwood Arms Harwood Arms, Fulham MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Contents Michelin Guide 2010 First Star Awarded Highlights 1 Time Out Eating and Drinking Awards 2010 Chief Executives Review Incorporating the Business Review 2 Winner, Best New Gastropub Directors and Advisers 9 Directors Report 11 Since September 2008, co-owners Brett Graham, Mike Statement of Directors Responsibilities 22 Robinson and Edwin Vaux have reinvented this pub in Corporate Governance 23 Fulham.
Specialising in a British menu, the pub has won a number of awards in the last couple of years including Best Directors Remuneration Report 33 New Gastropub at the 2010 Time Out awards and has also Group Income Statement 46 become the first pub in London to be awarded a coveted Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 47 Michelin star.
Group Balance Sheet 48 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 49 Group Cash Flow Statement 50 Notes to the Group Accounts 51 Golden Boar Independent Auditors Report Group 94 Potting Shed, Crudwell Potting Shed Five Year Record 96 Golden Boar, Freckenham Sawdays Pubs & Inns of England & Wales 2010 11 Winner, Enterprise Inns plc Company Accounts 97 Velvet Magazine Fine Dining Local, Seasonal & Organic Produce Statement of Comprehensive Income 98 Awards 2010 Winner, Fine Good Pub Guide 2010 National New Pub of the Year Balance Sheet 99 Dining Restaurant Good Pub Guide 2011 National Dining Pub of the Year Statement of Changes in Equity 100 Vaggy Spyrou and his family have been MA Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2010 Cash Flow Statement 101 licensees at the Golden Boar for three Licensees Jonathan Barry and Julian Muggridges concept Notes to the Company Accounts 102 years.
Head Chef Sergio Neal brought for the Potting Shed was designed to reflect the British Statement of Directors Responsibilities 125 a wealth of experience to help this institution of growing your own produce.
Not only do they delightful sixteenth-century pub win its Independent Auditors Report Company 126 grow their own herbs and vegetables, but also loan out first award.
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders 128 vegetable plots to local families to ensure the Potting Financial Calendar 128 Shed remains at the heart of its community.
Shareholder Information 129 Notice of Annual General Meeting 131 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM 136 Back cover pictures left to right Royal Oak, Prestbury Front cover pictures left to right Green Dragon, Downend 5 Wharf Street, Godalming George Hotel, Pangbourne Windmill, Peterborough Woolpack, Sopley The text pages of this document are printed on paper made from 75% recycled fibre.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2010 for the year ended 30 September 2010
