company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 65 statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the management report entitled Business review, which is accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the of the development and performance of the business and IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Company the position of the Company and the undertakings included financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Company law the Directors must not approve the accounts description of the principal risks and uncertainties that unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of they face.
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial By order of the Board statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: naresh nayyar present information, including accounting policies, in a Chief Executive manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: 18 March 2011 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable The Directors are listed on pages 8 to 10 of this annual report.
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
