COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 71 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. presentation of financial statements 1.1 Corporate information Essar Energy plc the Company is a public limited Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is 3rd Floor, Lansdowne House, Berkeley Square, London, W1J 6ER and its head office is 6th Floor, DCDM Building 10, Frere Felix Valois Street, Port Louis, Mauritius.
The Company was incorporated in the UK on 18 December 2009 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Essar Global Limited EGL or Parent Company.
Between 18 December 2009 and 7 May 2010, the Company was party to a series of transactions with other EGL group companies whereby it acquired control of the Refining and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses of EGL prior to IPO.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 29.
1.2 basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale assets, and financial assets and liabilities.
The Group was formed under a series of transactions with entities under the same control as the Company, referred to as common control transactions.
The Groups policy is to prepare its consolidated financial statements using merger accounting principles, as if the transactions giving rise to the formation of the Group took place at the beginning of the comparative period.
Under these principles, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared as if the Company were the holding Company of EGLs Refining and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses from 1 January 2009, the date of the beginning of the comparative period.
The Group has consolidated its subsidiaries from this date.
Once control was obtained, further acquisitions of non-controlling interests have been dealt with through reserves.
Businesses which were transferred out of the ownership of the Groups subsidiaries to entities held under common control have been excluded from the consolidated financial statements.
The assets, liabilities and the profit or loss of the entities comprising the Group have been consolidated and all transactions and balances between entities included within the Group consolidation have been eliminated.
Invested capital reflected the aggregated equity of the Refining and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses, prior to the formation of the Group.
At the point at which the Company became the parent company of the Group, the Groups equity reflected the share capital and share premium of the Company, together with other reserves arising on consolidation as shown in the statement of changes in equity and Note 21.
The non-controlling interests in the Groups subsidiary undertakings reduce throughout the period presented as a result of acquisitions by the Group of further investments in these subsidiaries.
Note 10 sets out how the Group has applied these principles in establishing its earnings per share.
EGL remains the ultimate Parent Company of the Group and its controlling party.
The ultimate shareholders of EGL are the Virgo Trust and the Triton Trust, discretionary trusts whose beneficiaries include, among others, companies whose controlling shareholders are Mr Ravi Ruia and Mr Prashant Ruia who are Directors of Essar Energy plc.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review.
The Business review also includes a summary of the Groups financial position, its cash flows and borrowing facilities.
1.3 Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Financial review section of the annual report.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 72 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1. presentation of financial statements continued 1.4 Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted by the Group, none of which had a material impact on the current or prior year reported results and the financial position: IAS 1 amended IAS 27 amended IAS 31 amended, Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate: IFRS 2 amended, Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations and Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions: IFRS 3 revised 2008, Business Combinations: IAS 17 amendment, Leases: IAS 27 revised 2008, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 revised 2008, Investments in Associates: IAS 39 amended, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items: IAS 39 amended and IFRIC 9, Embedded Derivatives: IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: IFRIC 18, Transfer of Assets from Customers: and Improvements to IFRSs April 2009.
1.5 Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: IAS 24 amended, Related Party Disclosures: IAS 32 amended, Classification of Rights Issues: IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments: IFRIC 14 amended, Repayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement: IFRS 7 amended, Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and Improvements to IFRSs May 2010.
The adoption of IFRS 9, which the Group expects will be applicable for the year beginning on 1 January 2013, will impact both the measurement and disclosure of Financial Instruments.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of other standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Accounting policies and estimates 2.1 Significant accounting policies 2.1.
1 Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses from third parties are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate value of the identifiable assets, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus cost directly attributable to the acquisition, except for a business combination under common control which is described below.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition, except for non-current assets that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets held for sale and discontinued operations which are recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
Where it is not possible to complete the determination of fair values by the date on which the first post-acquisition financial statements are approved, a provisional assessment of fair values is made and any adjustments required to those provisional fair values, and the corresponding adjustments to purchased goodwill, are finalised within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the purchase consideration over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill that is recognised as an asset and is initially measured at cost, is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised and subsequently also includes the non-controlling shareholders proportion of changes in equity since the date of combination.
The Group follows the entity concept method of accounting for changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries.
In the event of a purchase of a minority shareholders interest where the Group holds the majority of shares of a subsidiary, any excess over the Groups share of net assets is recorded in retained earnings.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 73 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Common control acquisitions The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries acquired from entities under common control are recorded at the carrying value recognised by the transferor.
Any differences between the carrying value of the net assets of subsidiaries acquired, and the consideration paid by the Group is accounted for as an adjustment to retained earnings.
When the transferor contributes the subsidiaries to the Group, the original cost paid by the transferor is recorded as capital investment with the differences recorded as an increase in retained earnings.
The net assets of the subsidiaries and their results are recognised from the date on which control of the subsidiaries was obtained by the transferor.
2 Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
3 Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of petroleum products is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax, sales taxes and duties.
A sale is recognised when economic benefits associated with the sale are expected to flow to the Group and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed and can be reliably measured.
This is usually when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer.
Revenue from power supply is accounted for on the basis of billings to consumers or unbilled supply of power.
Generally all consumers are billed on the basis of recording of consumption of electricity by installed meters.
Sales of electricity are accounted for based on relevant tariff rates approved under the contract with the customer.
Revenue associated with sales tax deferral is recognised in accordance with the Groups policy for accounting for government grants set out in 2.1.
4 Sales tax incentives The Group receives the benefit of certain sales tax incentives under the Capital Investment Incentive Premier Prestigious Units Scheme 19952000 the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme.
The benefits under the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme are recognised when it is reasonable to expect that the benefit will be received and that all related conditions will be met.
The benefit of a sales tax deferral with no associated interest outflow is recognised as a liability in accordance with the imputation rule under IAS 20 Accounting for Government grants and disclosure of Government Assistance.
This deferred liability is measured in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The benefit of the effective market rate of interest or no interest is measured as the difference between initial carrying value of the financial liability as determined in accordance with IAS 39 and the sales tax collected.
The benefits under the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme are available only when eligible domestic sales are made from the State of Gujarat and the sale is therefore treated as the key condition giving rise to the recognition of the benefit.
It is expected that all other conditions related to the deferral of sales tax will be met and therefore the benefit is recognised as eligible domestic sales are made.
The deferred liability to the State is recognised at its net present value, and therefore a finance charge is recorded as the discount on this liability unwinds.
5 Foreign currency transactions and translation Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into functional currency at the exchange rates at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into functional currency at exchange rates at the reporting date and exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 74 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars.
For the purposes of consolidation, the income statement items of those entities for which the US dollar is not the functional currency are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange during the year.
The related balance sheets are translated at the rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation are reported in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The rates used to translate the consolidated financial statements were as follows: 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December Rs $ Rs $ Opening rates 46.68 48.45 Average rates 45.74 48.35 Closing rates 44.81 46.68 2.1.
6 Derivative financial instruments In order to reduce its exposure to foreign exchange, commodity price and interest rate risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
The Group also enters into financial instruments to acquire non-controlling stakes of its subsidiaries to increase its stake.
Additionally the Group provides warrants over stakes held in certain subsidiaries.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
At present, the Groups derivative arrangements are not designated hedges under the definitions of IAS 39.
Consequently, all fair value movements in respect of derivative financial instruments are taken to the income statement.
Further details of derivative financial instruments including fair value measurements are disclosed in Note 20.
7 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the initial estimate of the decommissioning obligation, and for qualifying assets, borrowing costs if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of mining properties and leases, which include the cost of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the period in which such costs are incurred.
Costs directly related to construction, including costs and revenues arising from testing, specific financing costs and foreign exchange losses, are capitalised up to the point where the property, plant and equipment become operational.
Property, plant and equipment become operational once all testing and trial runs are complete and it is ready for use in the manner management intended.
Income from the sale of products as a result of testing and trial runs of a new asset are part of the directly attributable cost of assets and therefore deducted from the cost of the asset.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalised value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Likewise, when a major inspection or major maintenance is undertaken, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment in the course of construction is carried at cost, less accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is not depreciated.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment other than freehold land and properties under construction is calculated to write off the cost of the asset to its residual value using the straight line method or the written down value method or on a unit of production basis as appropriate, over its expected useful life.
Depreciation begins when the assets become ready for use.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 75 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Depreciation is calculated over the estimates useful lives of assets and on the basis of depreciation methods are as follows: Expected useful life Asset Depreciation method years Buildings Straight line 40 Plant and equipment Refinery Straight line 40 Power plant Straight line 11-30 Related assets Straight line 10-25 Producing properties Unit of production basis Mining properties Unit of production basis Office equipment and fixtures Straight line 3-20 Motor vehicles Written down value 9-11 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of lease term and estimated useful life.
8 Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment, including producing properties and leases, intangible asset excluding goodwill and investments in joint controlled entities are reviewed for impairment at each balance sheet date if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
If there are indicators of impairment, an assessment is made to determine whether the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Whenever the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the carrying value of the asset or the cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount and impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but such that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
9 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets during the construction phase on an effective interest basis, until such time as the assets are ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of producing or mining properties, is when saleable material begins to be extracted from such properties.
Where surplus funds are available for a short term out of money borrowed specifically to finance a qualified asset, the income generated from such short term investments is deducted from capitalised borrowing costs.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
10 Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs see above.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Payments made under operating leases, where the lessors effectively retain substantially all the risk and benefits of ownership of the lease property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Property, plant and equipment used by the Group under operating leases are not recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 76 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued 2.1.
11 Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss FVTPL, which are initially measured at fair value.
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following specified categories: at FVTPL, cash and cash equivalents, loans and receivables and Available-for-sale AFS financial assets.
The classification is dependent on the nature and purpose of the financial assets acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Further details on the Groups financial assets and fair value measurement are disclosed in Note 24.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading or designated upon initial recognition as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if: acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term: they are a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or they are derivatives unless these are designated as effective hedging instruments.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: the financial asset forms part of a Group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Grouping is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 24.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial measurement loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate, except for short term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired as well as through the amortisation process.
AFS financial investments Listed shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
The Group invests in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but classified as AFS financial investments and stated at fair value because the Directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated reserves with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividend is established.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost the Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists for assets that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 77 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The present value of the estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
For AFS financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a Group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as AFS, objective evidence for impairment would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
12 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Groups other financial liabilities include borrowings, trade and other payables and finance lease payables.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in the case of loans and borrowings, include directly attributable transaction costs.
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows: Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities at FVTPL include those held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Financial guarantee contracts The Group provides certain guarantees in respect of the indebtedness of subsidiary undertakings, claims under contract and other arrangements in the ordinary course of business.
The Group evaluates each arrangement to determine whether it is an insurance or a financial guarantee contract.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently measured at the higher of the amount of the obligation under the contract and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation over period of guarantee is provided.
Once the arrangements are designated as insurance contracts, these are disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the obligations under guarantee become probable.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
13 Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can reliably be estimated, will be required to settle such an obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
In normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Group.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 78 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
14 Inventories Inventories other than crude oil extracted by the Exploration and Production segment are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Crude oil extracted and in saleable condition is valued at net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the following bases: raw materials and consumables are determined at weighted average cost except crude oil for the refinery which is measured at first-in first-out basis.
finished products and work in progress are determined at direct material cost, labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal or allocated capacity.
inventories held for trading purposes are determined at weighted average cost.
Net realisable value is determined by reference to estimated prices existing at the balance sheet date for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
15 Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that an intangible asset may be impaired.
The assets useful lives and methods of amortisation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Intangible assets with finite lives which are subject to amortisation are amortised over their useful lives as mentioned below: expected useful life Intangible asset years Software 3-5 Power sales contract 20 2.1.
16 Joint controlled entities A joint controlled entity is an entity in which the Group shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or more ventures under a contractual arrangement.
Investment in joint controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, which is recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
In accordance with the equity method, investments in joint controlled entities are measured at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of joint controlled entities, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Goodwill arising from the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised of the joint controlled entities is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The income statement reflects share of results of operations of the joint controlled entities.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in equity of the joint controlled entities, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint controlled entities.
17 Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for oil and gas resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration and evaluation activity includes: researching and analysing historical exploration data: gathering exploration data through geological and geophysical studies: exploratory and appraisal drilling: evaluating and testing discoveries: determining transportation and infrastructure requirements: and conducting market and finance studies.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 79 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific exploration area are charged to the profit and loss account.
License costs paid in connection with a right to explore an existing exploration area are capitalised.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation of capitalised license costs is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred except in the following circumstances: the exploration and evaluation activity is related to an established discovery for which commercially recoverable reserves have already been established: or at the balance sheet date, exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment losses, if any.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indicators of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an impairment test of the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with the Group or pool of operating assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration is attributed.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged to the profit and loss account.
Exploration areas at which reserves have been discovered but that require major capital expenditure before production can begin are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration or evaluation work is under way or planned.
18 Development expenditure When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to assets under construction after impairment is assessed and any resulting impairment loss is recognised.
Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of development wells are capitalised as assets under construction.
On completion of a development, all capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure together with the subsequent development expenditure transferred to producing properties are depreciated using unit of production method.
This is carried out with reference to quantities, with depletion computed on the basis of the ratio that oil and gas production bears to balance proved and probable reserves at commencement of the year.
19 Tax Tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is provided on taxable income at amounts expected to be paid or recovered, using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
In India, the current tax payable by a company is charged to the income statement in the applicable period at the corporate tax rate computed under the normal provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act or the minimum alternate tax MAT, whichever is higher.
Excess paid under MAT can be carried forward for up to 10 years as a credit against corporate income tax in the future.
Where the MAT credit satisfies the relevant criteria under IAS 12 Income Taxes, it is recognised as a deferred tax asset.
Deferred tax is recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint controlled entities, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax credits carried forward and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset will be realised or the liability will be settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the income statement, except when they relate to items credited or debited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised directly in equity, or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill or in determining the excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the business combination.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 80 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same tax authority.
20 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, short term deposits with banks with original maturity of less than 90 days and short term highly liquid investments, that are readily convertible into cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in the principal amount.
Bank overdrafts, which are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the operations are included in cash and cash equivalents.
21 Retirement benefits The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its employees as well as post employment benefit plans.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged as expense is the contributions paid or payable when employees have rendered services entitling them to the contributions.
For defined benefit pension and post employment benefit plans, full actuarial valuations are carried out every year end using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses arising during the year are recognised in profit and loss account.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The employee benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of the related plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Detailed disclosures are not provided within the financial statements as amounts associated with such schemes are not considered to be significant.
22 Share based payments The cost of granting share options and other share-based remuneration is recognised in the income statement at their fair value at grant date.
They are expensed straight-line over the vesting period, based on estimates of the shares or options that will eventually vest.
Charges are reversed if it appears that non market performance will not be met.
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes model.
During 2010 the Company granted options to the Executive Director and certain members of the Essar Energy senior management team to purchase shares under the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP.
Details of the scheme and its performance criteria are set out in the Remuneration report.
The total charge in the year relating to the scheme was US$45,506, which is not considered to be significant to the Groups results and therefore no further disclosures have been provided within the financial statements.
23 IPO costs Incremental directly attributable costs incurred on issue of equity shares is offset against the share premium account in accordance with CA 2006 and IAS 23 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
2.2 Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the course of applying the policies set out in section 2.1 above, management have made estimations and assumptions that impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Several of these estimates and judgments are related to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events.
These estimates and judgments are evaluated at each reporting date and are based on historical experience, internal controls, advice from external experts and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates may vary from the actual results.
The Group believes that the assumptions, judgments and estimations that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are the following areas: 2.2.
1 Sales tax benefit The Group benefits from certain sales tax incentives given by the State of Gujarat provided if the sales are made from the State of Gujarat.
Under these incentive schemes, the Group is able to defer the payment of up to approximately Rs.
91 billion US$1.95 billion collected as sales tax for eligible domestic sales made from the State of Gujarat until the financial year ending 31 March 2021 or earlier `if the full eligible limit is exhausted, after which it is required to repay the retained amounts of sales tax in six equal annual instalments.
There are a number of conditions under which this benefit has been granted including: i ensuring that certain percentages of the employees are local people: ii re-investing certain amounts of the benefit: iii adhering to specified pollution control measures: and iv contributing a certain amount to the prescribed rural development scheme in the State of Gujarat.
The Group recorded a benefit of US$292.6 million in the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: US$220.3 million.
The majority of the benefit is expected to be earned over a period of five to seven years from the date on which the Vadinar refinery commenced commercial operations in 2008.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 81 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued The amount of benefit recorded is based on managements expectation that it will begin repayments in 2021 and that it will comply with all the related conditions.
This is based on the fact that management intends to comply with all such conditions, is able to control its compliance, and intends to monitor the sales to allow the Group to benefit from the maximum deferral period.
Any change in this assessment would result in a change in the benefit that would be recorded in that period.
The Group has recorded the sales tax benefit as revenue in the period in which the associated eligible domestic sales are made to customers.
Under IAS 20, the benefit may only be recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the entity will comply with the conditions attached to the benefit and must be recognised over the period necessary to match the benefit systematically with the related costs which they are intended to compensate.
Recognition of the benefit in profit or loss on a receipts basis is appropriate only where no suitable basis exists for allocating the benefit to periods other than the one in which it is received.
Management has exercised its judgement in assessing the period over which to recognise the benefit and believes there are no significant costs or expenses that the incentive is intended to compensate, as the plants location was determined before the incentive became available and as this incentive was set up, amongst other things, to improve the economic wellbeing of the State of Gujarat.
Accordingly, the Group has recognised the benefit in the period of the eligible domestic sales made from the State of Gujarat, being the primary condition associated with the benefit.
An alternative view would be that the sales tax benefit is intended to compensate recipients for the costs of setting up and or conducting their business in the State of Gujarat, in which case the benefit could be recognised over the period necessary to match such costs.
For example, a differing judgement may be to a recognise the benefit during the period in which the Company incurs operating expenses whilst it enjoys the benefit for example, 13 years being the remaining period for which the sales tax payment can be deferred or b recognise the benefit over the expected life of the capital asset constructed, namely the Vadinar refinery the depreciation period for which is 40 years both of which would result in materially different results in the periods presented with significantly lower revenue and profit.
Further, the Groups eligibility to participate in the Scheme is being challenged by the State Government of Gujarat see Note 27.
2 Contingencies and commitments In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Group.
Potential liabilities that have a low probability of crystallising or are very difficult to quantify reliably, are treated as contingent liabilities.
Such liabilities are disclosed in the notes but are not provided for in the consolidated financial statements.
There can be no assurance regarding the final outcome of these legal proceedings, but the Group does not expect them to have a materially adverse impact on its financial position or profitability.
For further details, refer to Note 27.
3 Depreciable lives The Groups relevant non-current assets are depreciable over their estimated useful lives as set out in section 2.1 above.
Such lives are dependent upon an assessment of both the technical lives of the assets and also their likely economic lives based on factors including commodity prices, alternative sources of supply, relative efficiency and operating costs.
Accordingly depreciable lives are reviewed annually using the best information available to management.
4 Impairment testing Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
Other non-current assets are tested for impairment when conditions suggest that there is a risk of impairment.
Where impairment testing is carried out, management use the best information available to them to assess the likely cash flows available to the relevant asset.
Key assumptions are inherently uncertain and include commodity prices, anticipated production costs, likely asset lives, the timing of granting of licenses and permits and the relevant discount rates.
5 Tax The Group is subject to tax, principally within India.
The amount of tax payable in respect of any period is dependent upon the interpretation of the relevant tax rules.
Whilst an assessment must be made of the deferred tax position of each entity within the Group, these matters are inherently uncertain until the position of each entity is agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
6 Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 2.1.
In making a decision about whether to continue to capitalise exploration and evaluation expenditures, it is necessary to make judgements about the satisfaction of, if a proved reserves are booked or b i if they have found commercially producible quantities of reserves and ii if they are subject to further exploration or appraisal activity in that either drilling of additional exploratory wells is under way or firmly planned for the near future or other activities are being undertaken to sufficiently progress the assessing of reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.
If there is a change in one of these judgements in a subsequent period, then the related capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditures would be expensed in that period resulting in a charge to income.
For further details, refer to Note 11.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 82 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment information Information reported to the Board for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance is primarily determined by the nature of the different activities that the Group engages in, rather than the geographical location of these operations.
This is reflected by the Groups organisational structure and internal financial reporting systems.
The profitability of the segments is reviewed based on profit or loss after tax and is based on IFRS.
The Group has the following reportable operating segments: Power: The Group operates gas and liquid fuel based power plants in India and Canada together with a number of mining assets.
Exploration and Production: The Group has a diverse portfolio of 17 blocks for the exploration and production of oil and gas in India, Australia, Indonesia, Madagascar, Nigeria and Vietnam.
Refining and Marketing: The Group owns a petroleum refinery on the west coast of India, together with a 50% interest in a petroleum refinery in Kenya, and fuel retailing stations on franchise across India.
Its main products are gasoil, motor spirit, fuel oil and superior kerosene oil.
The activities of Refining and Marketing include the refining of crude oil and trading, marketing and transportation of finished products and by products.
Centre: This comprises Essar Energy plc and its subsidiary companies that provides services to the Group as a whole.
Operating segments The following tables present revenue, profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009: Refining exploration and and power Marketing Centre eliminations total production for the year ended 31 December 2010 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Revenue from external customers 321.8 3.2 9,388.0 9,713.0 Sales tax benefit 292.6 292.6 Inter-segment revenue 27.8 27.8 total segment revenue 349.6 3.2 9,680.6 27.8 10,005.6 Cost of sales 183.5 4.1 9,128.4 27.8 9,288.2 Gross profit 166.1 0.9 552.2 717.4 Other operating income 3.9 2.0 28.1 0.1 0.1 34.0 Selling and distribution expenses 91.7 91.7 General and administration expenses 15.4 3.1 92.0 10.5 0.1 120.9 Finance income 3.7 43.8 3.0 1.3 49.2 Finance cost 71.2 1.9 262.6 2.2 1.3 336.6 Other gains losses 24.6 2.8 45.4 41.3 114.1 Segment loss profit 111.7 1.1 223.2 31.7 365.5 Tax 37.6 75.1 4.5 117.2 profit Loss after tax 74.1 1.1 148.1 27.2 248.3 Depreciation and amortisation 42.2 0.3 84.5 127.0 Exploration Refining and and Power Marketing Centre Eliminations Total Production For the year ended 31 December 2009 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Revenue from external customers 265.1 6,538.4 6,803.5 Sales tax benefit 220.3 220.3 Inter-segment revenue 26.8 0.2 27.0 total segment revenue 291.9 6,758.9 27.0 7,023.8 Cost of sales 167.5 1.2 6,303.9 27.0 6,445.6 Gross profit 124.4 1.2 455.0 578.2 Other operating income 3.8 13.7 17.5 Selling and distribution expenses 76.7 76.7 General and administration expenses 15.0 0.9 89.5 105.4 Finance income 2.0 0.1 23.9 26.0 Finance cost 54.6 0.4 254.8 309.8 Other gains losses 7.2 6.0 154.7 155.9 Segment loss profit 67.8 8.4 226.3 285.7 Tax 13.7 0.5 64.7 78.9 profit Loss after tax 54.1 8.9 161.6 206.8 Depreciation and amortisation 35.9 0.1 78.0 114.0 COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 83 3.
Segment information continued Sales between the segments are made at contractually agreed prices.
The segment revenues and segment results include transaction between business segments.
All inter and intra transactions including all profit or loss made within these segments are eliminated on Group combination.
There is no comparative information for the centre as it did not exist in the comparative period.
Material non-cash transaction in the periods presented include gifting of shares in subsidiaries by the Parent Company on reorganisation of the Group prior to IPO as described in Notes 2.1 and 21.
Three customers in the Refining and Marketing segment contributing revenues of US$2,414.5 million, US$1,512.5 million and US$1,309.9 million respectively accounted for approximately 52% of the Groups net sales 2009: Three customers in the Refining and Marketing segment contributing revenues of US$1,820.9 million, US$1,152.1 million and US$1,172.8 million respectively accounted for approximately 59% of the Groups net sales.
Segment assets and liabilities 2010 exploration Refining and and power production Marketing Centre eliminations total As at 31 December $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Segment assets 4,493.6 276.7 7,409.3 634.9 340.3 12,474.2 Borrowings 1,777.6 23.4 2,696.6 4,497.6 Other liabilities 855.8 14.0 2,761.9 12.6 309.8 3,334.5 Segment liabilities 2,633.4 37.4 5,458.5 12.6 309.8 7,832.1 2009 Exploration Refining and and Power Production Marketing Centre Eliminations Total As at 31 December $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Segment assets 2,051.1 243.8 5,871.3 150.4 8,015.8 Borrowings 773.2 5.5 2,330.3 3,109.0 Other liabilities 494.6 112.1 2,382.5 121.2 2,868.0 Segment liabilities 1,267.8 117.6 4,712.8 121.2 5,977.0 Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 84 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Geographical information The Groups operations are mainly located in India.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups revenue by destination, irrespective of the origin of the goods: 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million India 6,918.3 5,489.9 Indonesia 900.4 341.5 Singapore 836.1 142.3 United Arab Emirates 749.7 672.7 Other 601.1 377.4 total revenue 10,005.6 7,023.8 4.
Revenue 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million Sale of petroleum products 9,391.2 6,538.4 Revenue from power supply 321.8 265.1 Sales tax benefit 292.6 220.3 Revenue 10,005.6 7,023.8 Other operating income 34.0 17.5 Finance income 49.2 26.0 total revenue 10,088.8 7,067.3 The sales tax benefit above relates to the benefit recognised on eligible domestic sales within the State of Gujarat from the Vadinar refinery.
Under the incentive scheme, sales tax collected from customers within Gujarat is deferred for payment to the State of Gujarat by up to 17 years.
This deferral gives rise to time value benefit as the difference between the cash received and the net present value of the liability to the State.
The benefit is earned as the eligible domestic sales are made within the State of Gujarat as the benefit does not compensate the Group for any particular costs or expenses, and the Group expects all other conditions related to the benefit to be met in full.
The benefit is included within revenue as it is derived directly from sales made to customers.
5. profit before tax 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million Profit before tax is stated after charging: Consumption cost of raw materials 9,011.6 6,194.5 Losses on commodity derivatives recognised within gross profit 61.2 7.6 Depreciation and amortisation 127.0 114.0 Staff costs 42.4 31.2 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes inventory write downs amounting to nil 2009: US$13.4 million.
Average employee numbers 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December no.
Refining and Marketing 1,389 1,242 Exploration and Production 210 174 Power 748 534 Centre 10 2,357 1,950 COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 85 5. profit before tax continued Staff costs 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million Salaries and wages 55.8 35.2 Defined benefit plans 1.9 1.3 Defined contribution plans 1.1 0.3 total staff cost 58.8 36.8 Less: staff cost capitalised 16.4 5.6 Staff costs charged to the income statement 42.4 31.2 6. net finance costs 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million finance costs Interest 369.8 274.2 Bank charges 85.1 80.8 Other 16.8 8.4 total finance costs 471.7 363.4 Less: borrowing costs capitalised 154.6 62.0 Unwinding of discount 19.5 8.4 finance cost charged to the income statement 336.6 309.8 finance income Interest accrued on assigned receivables 17.5 5.7 Interest income on bank deposits 46.7 23.1 total finance income 64.2 28.8 Less: interest income capitalised 15.0 2.8 finance income recognised in the income statement 49.2 26.0 net finance costs 287.4 283.8 Borrowing costs capitalised during the year relate to interest ranging from 1.3% to 13.75% 2009: 1.0% to 14.5% incurred on specific borrowings undertaken to finance construction of assets.
As sales tax is collected from customers, a corresponding liability to the State of Gujarat is recognised at its net present value.
Accordingly, the discount on the liability unwinds over time resulting in the finance costs as shown above.
In a related transaction, the Group has deposited amounts based on the net present value of its future sales tax payments with a related party.
The interest accruing on these deposits of 9.0% 2009: 9.1% per annum is included in finance income above.
Other gains 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million Foreign exchange gains 94.4 136.1 Share of profit from joint controlled entities 1.7 0.7 Profit on sale of available for sale investments 11.2 Surplus on acquisition of joint controlled entities Note 26 19.1 Gain on settlement of liabilities 10.1 Other 3.3 total other gains 114.1 155.9 Included in foreign exchange gains is a non-operational gain of US$41.3 million 2009: nil from the conversion of the initial public offering proceeds into US dollars with the remainder US$53.1 million 2009: US$136.1 million arising from operational payments to creditors and receipts from customers in US dollars where the settlement date rate was different from the transaction date or closing period rate.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 86 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Auditors remuneration 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million Fees payable to the Companys auditors for audit of: Essar Energy plc annual accounts 0.1 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.5 0.9 total audit fees 1.6 0.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group 1 Other services pursuant to legislation 3.4 Other 0.2 0.1 total non-audit fees 3.6 0.1 Audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.2 total 5.2 1.2 1 Includes fees of US$3.0 million in respect of Reporting Accountant services provided as part of the IPO.
9. tax 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million Current Tax 30.6 2.8 Deferred Tax 86.6 76.1 Income tax expense 117.2 78.9 Effective tax rate % 32.1 27.6 A reconciliation of the income tax expense applicable to the profit before income tax at the standard statutory income tax rate in India to the income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million profit before tax 365.5 285.7 Income tax Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax 33.41% 2009: 33.99% 122.1 97.1 Surplus on acquisition of joint controlled entities 2.9 Deferred tax not recognised 14.7 1.9 Minimum alternate tax MAT 25.7 3.9 Tax holidays non taxable income 15.9 2.5 Effect of non-Indian rates 6.1 0.8 Adjustment in respect of prior period 8.3 6.0 Impact of reduction in tax rates 2.4 Others 0.2 11.8 Income taxes recognised in the income statement 117.2 78.9 The applicable tax rate is the standard effective corporate income tax rate in India.
The Indian tax rate decreased from 33.99% to 33.22% with effect from 1 April 2010.
Indian companies are subject to corporate income tax or MAT.
If MAT is greater than corporate income tax then MAT is levied.
MAT is charged on book profits at a rate of 19.93% 2009: 16.995%.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 87 9. tax continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Deferred tax asset Property, plant and equipment 0.3 Unabsorbed depreciation 139.4 18.0 Accruals 70.1 170.4 Borrowings 19.9 18.6 Provisions 14.9 17.0 Other temporary differences 35.0 17.0 total deferred tax asset 279.3 241.3 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 541.8 398.2 Intangible assets 20.8 16.4 Borrowings 0.4 Other temporary differences 15.9 5.7 total deferred tax liability 578.5 420.7 net deferred tax liability 299.2 179.4 The net deferred tax liability is recorded in the financial information based on the tax position of each Group company as follows: Movement in deferred tax liabilities 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Opening balance 179.8 101.3 Addition due to acquisition Note 25 23.1 Charged to income statement 86.4 76.1 Exchange difference 10.1 2.4 closing balance 299.4 179.8 movement in deferred tax assets 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Opening balance 0.4 0.4 Credited to income statement 0.2 closing balance 0.2 0.4 Deferred tax recognised in income statement 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December $ million $ million Depreciation and amortisation 153.4 71.4 Borrowings 5.3 0.4 Others 72.1 4.3 total deferred tax recognised in income statement 86.6 76.1 Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 88 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9. tax continued The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets related to unutilised tax losses.
These temporary differences will expire in accordance with prevailing tax laws as follows: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million expiry date 31 March 2012 6.2 31 March 2014 0.7 9.1 31 March 2015 3.7 31 March 2016 2.0 total 0.7 21.0 The Group also has not recognised deferred tax assets of US$31.1 million 2009: US$7.1 million in respect of credits for MAT which have not been recognised.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised for the above losses and credits on the grounds that it is not probable that suitable taxable profits will arise before the tax losses and credits expire.
The recoverability of the unrecognised deferred tax asset will be reviewed at future balance sheet dates.
The deferred tax liabilities for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries or joint controlled entities have not been recognised as: i the Group has determined that undistributed profit of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, but rather tax-free returns of capital may be made if necessary: and ii the Groups joint controlled entities cannot distribute their profits without consent of all joint controlled entities partners.
The Group does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The temporary differences associated with investment in subsidiaries and joint controlled entities, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised, as explained above, amount to US$166.0 million 2009: US$151.8 million.
10. earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit after tax for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
As noted in the basis of preparation in Note 1, the financial statements combine the results, assets and liabilities of the Refining and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses acquired by the Company under the reorganisation prior to IPO.
During the period, the holding companies of the Refining and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses provided cash in exchange for equity in the underlying Group.
To reflect this in earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is calculated on the basis that this cash represented the acquisition of shares at the listing price of 4.20 per ordinary share throughout both the current and the comparative period presented.
The Company issued 999,999,980 fully paid shares to its Parent Company for a total of US$1,491.1 million in April 2010.
At the date of Listing 7 May 2010 a further 303,030,302 shares were issued, and as part of the Listing there was a subsequent issue of 406,991 shares as an over-allotment option on 4 June 2010.
Since 1 January 2009 the cash and the related equivalent number of shares calculated as though issued at the listing price of 4.20 was as follows: Shares representing: Shares Invested capital as at 1 January 2009 884,541,083 Capital contributed in cash in 2009 of US$150.1 million 23,352,656 Invested capital at 1 January 2009 907,893,739 Capital contributed in cash in 2010 of US$593.2 million 92,106,261 Issued on IPO 303,437,293 Shares capital at 31 December 2010 1,303,437,293 The shares presented above reflect capital contributions made to the Group by its Parent Company prior to IPO in cash and are different to the amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, which also include non-cash gifted investments.
The options issued as per the ESOP scheme in 2010 did not result in a significant dilutive potential impact.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 89 10. earnings per share continued The following table contains computations for basic earnings per share: For the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company $ million 201.5 152.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share million 1,177.1 896.2 Basic and diluted Earnings per share US cents per share 17.1 17.0 11. property, plant and equipment freehold assets exploration producing land and plant and under mining and properties buildings equipment construction properties evaluation other total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million cost at 1 January 2009 34.4 244.7 3,463.2 715.6 81.2 8.6 4,547.7 Additions 36.3 29.8 840.9 26.3 2.6 935.9 Transfers 2.5 12.9 144.3 159.8 2.5 2.6 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Exchange difference 1.4 10.6 142.4 54.9 2.3 0.6 212.2 at 31 December 2009 38.3 304.5 3,779.4 1,451.6 107.3 14.4 5,695.5 Additions 1.8 29.6 8.4 2,491.4 143.3 49.2 8.6 2,732.3 Addition due to business combination Note 25 3.9 69.4 0.1 73.4 Transfers 1.8 72.2 74.7 0.7 Disposals 1.1 0.3 1.4 Exchange difference 1.6 13.5 163.0 113.1 3.1 3.6 0.8 292.6 at 31 December 2010 41.7 349.4 4,021.9 3,985.3 209.6 160.1 24.3 8,792.3 accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 0.3 9.2 104.0 3.1 116.6 Charge for the year 7.1 107.3 1.9 116.3 Exchange difference 0.6 7.9 0.2 8.7 at 31 December 2009 0.3 16.9 219.2 5.2 241.6 Charge for the year 0.2 7.7 113.5 2.8 124.2 Disposals 1.0 0.1 1.1 Exchange difference 1.0 14.6 0.2 15.8 at 31 December 2010 0.5 25.6 346.3 8.1 380.5 net carrying value at 31 December 2009 38.0 287.6 3,560.2 1,451.6 107.3 9.2 5,453.9 at 31 December 2010 41.2 323.8 3,675.6 3,985.3 209.6 160.1 16.2 8,411.8 major items included in asset under construction 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Power plants 2,646.3 838.4 Expansion of petroleum refinery 1,339.0 613.2 3,985.3 1,451.6 Materially all property, plant and equipment held by the Group are subject to securities provided in respect of bank borrowings and contingent interest payable as described in Notes 18 and 27, respectively.
The carrying value of assets held under finance leases included above is set out below: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Buildings 5.1 5.7 Plant and equipment 10.1 18.1 Others 0.2 0.2 total assets under finance lease 15.4 24.0 Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 90 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12a.
Other intangible assets power sales contract Software total $ million $ million $ million Cost At 1 January 2009 46.3 6.9 53.2 Additions 0.6 0.6 Exchange difference 7.3 0.3 7.6 At 31 December 2009 53.6 7.8 61.4 Additions 1.0 1.0 Exchange difference 2.9 0.3 3.2 At 31 December 2010 56.5 9.1 65.6 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2009 0.7 0.7 Amortisation 1.6 1.4 3.0 Exchange difference 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2009 1.6 3.2 4.8 Amortisation 2.8 1.6 4.4 Exchange difference 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 December 2010 4.5 5.0 9.5 net book value At 31 December 2009 52.0 4.6 56.6 At 31 December 2010 52.0 4.1 56.1 12b.
Goodwill 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Opening balance 127.5 122.9 Exchange differences 6.1 4.6 Closing balance 133.6 127.5 Goodwill relates to the following acquisitions: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Refining and Marketing business segment Petroleum refinery 101.7 96.6 power busines segment Bhander power plant, Hazira 4.8 4.7 Essar power plant, Hazira 27.1 26.2 Closing balance 133.6 127.5 In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a cash generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use.
The Group calculates the recoverable amount as the value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cash generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the applicable business segment weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific risks relating to the country where the cash generating unit is located.
Petroleum refinery The five-year business plans are used together with long term market expectations to estimate gross refining margins and other cash flows, which are approved on an annual basis by management, and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a discount factor of 11.43% p. a.
The three-year business plans contain forecasts for refinery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of refined products, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step in the preparation of these plans, various economic assumptions, such as oil prices, refining margins, refined product margins and cost inflation rates, are set by senior management.
The estimated recoverable amount for the refinery unit exceeds its carrying amount in all periods.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 91 12.
Other intangible assets continued Gross Refining Margin GRM is the difference between revenue from refined petroleum products and related cost of crude oil used for their production.
GRM is calculated based on market information and past experience of management.
Prices of the petroleum products and crude are exposed to movement in crude prices on the Nymex, International Petroleum Exchange and Dubai Mercantile Exchange.
If GRM falls by 26% 2009: 35% compared to what is considered for impairment testing, Refinery Projects recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
The discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of Essar Oil Limited EOL.
If the discount rate increases by 42% 2009: 72% above what is considered for impairment testing, Refinery Projects recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
Power plants The Group uses the long term power sale agreements for estimating the cash flows, which are approved based on signed contracts in place and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a discount factor of 10.60% p. a.
These contain forecasts for plant load factor, generation in Megawatts MW, fixed and variable revenue, operating costs and sustaining capital expenditure.
The cash flow projections are based on these forecasts which are approved by senior management.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plants significantly exceeds its carrying amount in all cases and no impairment is necessary at the end of periods presented.
The sensitivity analysis described below in respect of key input assumptions used to assess impairment of goodwill is for information purposes only, and variation of such factors does not lead to a need for impairment.
Plant load factor is the generation capacity of the plant at a given point in time and is based on the demand from the customer with a direct impact on variable revenue.
If plant load factor falls by 10%, the recoverable amount will decrease by US$21.0 million 2009: US$31.0 million.
Similarly if plant load factor increases by 10%, then the recoverable amount of power plans will increase by US$14 million 2009: US$16 million.
Discount rates reflect the current market assessment of the risks specific to each cash generating unit.
The discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of power entity.
A 1% increase in discount rate reduces the recoverable amount by US$18.6 million 2009: US$23.5 million.
Available for sale investments 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Opening balance 41.3 Additions 28.8 1 Disposals 37.0 4.9 Movement in fair value 2.3 15.8 Exchange difference 2.0 1.6 balance as at 31 December 41.3 1 Includes disposal of 3.23% of shareholding in Essar Steel Limited, an unlisted company in which EGL is the majority shareholder.
These shares were sold by the Group to Essar Steel Holdings Limited, a company in the EGL group, for cash at their fair value at the date of disposal for US$33.4 million.
trade and other receivables current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Trade receivables 754.0 627.0 Receivable from related parties 182.6 80.9 Tax receivable 12.4 18.3 Sales tax receivable 52.9 50.8 Others receivables 45.7 36.3 Prepayments 28.4 31.6 Advances to suppliers 13.2 14.2 total current trade and other receivables 1,089.2 859.1 The credit period given to customers ranges from zero to 90 days.
The Group has discounted receivables amounting to US$144.5 million 2009: US$107.2 million with the lenders having recourse to the Group in the event of default by the debtor to settle the bills discounted with the lender.
These debtors have been included under trade receivables disclosed above as they do not qualify for fide-recognition.
Management consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
Details of the ageing of receivables are set out in Note 23.
Sales tax receivable represents amount receivable by EOL from the sales tax authorities being sales tax collected and deposited for the period when EOL was entitled to the sales tax deferral scheme.
For further details, see Note 27.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Trade and other receivables continued 14b.
Trade and other receivables non-current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Receivable from related parties 293.2 124.5 Others 43.6 38.6 Prepayments 87.9 30.0 Advances to suppliers 1.3 Total non-current trade and other receivables 424.7 194.4 Amounts receivable from related parties include US$275.1 million 2009: US$121.6 million which reflects sales tax collected and deposited with the relevant related party.
The relevant related party has committed that such amounts plus interest will be available to meet the Groups sales tax liability when it becomes due in up to 17 years.
Other financial assets current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Bank deposits 498.6 235.6 Other deposits 15.8 57.0 Total current other financial assets 514.4 292.6 15b.
Other financial assets non-current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Bank deposits 30.8 Other deposits 21.1 18.5 Total non-current other financial assets 51.9 18.5 Bank deposits include restricted cash of US$509.8 million 2009: US$235.0 million.
Restricted cash represents margin deposits with banks against various bank facilities such as guarantees, letters of credit for import of raw material and capital goods.
Other deposits are principally deposits to government controlled business parties.
Materially all other financial assets held by the Group are subject to securities provided in respect of bank borrowings and contingent interest payable as described in Notes 18 and 27, respectively.
Inventories 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Raw material and consumables 778.0 562.8 Work in progress 289.9 152.0 Finished products 126.3 149.4 Total inventories 1,194.2 864.2 Materially all inventories held by the Group are subject to securities provided in respect of bank borrowings and contingent interest payable as described in Notes 18 and 27, respectively.
Inventory write-downs during the year ended 31 December, 2010 of nil 2009: US$13.4 million were recorded to adjust inventories to net realisable value and recognised as an expense in cost of sales in the period.
Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Cash at banks 97.7 23.7 Liquid investments 386.0 21.4 Bank deposits 80.0 26.3 Total cash and cash equivalent 563.7 71.4 Bank deposits have a maturity period of less than 90 days.
Liquid investments represent cash deposited in mutual funds which are fully liquid and can be realised without notice.
Materially all cash and cash equivalents held by the Group are subject to securities provided in respect of bank borrowings and contingent interest payable as described in Notes 18 and 27, respectively.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 93 18. borrowings 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Non-convertible debentures 214.9 104.2 Banks and Financial Institutions 3,524.4 2,349.5 Optionally Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 109.8 86.4 Working Capital Loans 321.6 367.6 Bills of exchange 136.2 107.2 Loans from related parties 213.9 97.8 total borrowings 4,520.8 3,112.7 Less: unamortised debt issue cost 23.2 3.7 net borrowings 4,497.6 3,109.0 Current borrowing 750.0 918.9 non-current borrowing 3,747.6 2,190.1 In addition to the amounts shown above, the Group also has long term liabilities, particularly in respect of deferred sales tax, set out in Note 19b.
Secured non-convertible debentures Non-convertible debentures include US$92.2 million 2009: US$104.2 million of debentures issued during 1995-96 at coupon rates of 6.0% to 12.5% per annum interest expensed at effective interest rate of 10.3%, repayments of which commenced on 30 April 2006 and will continue until 24 September 2018.
During the year, the Power business issued non-convertible debentures of US$122.7 million at coupon rates of 10.25% to 11.25% per annum interest expensed at effective interest rate of 10.8%, repayments of which will commence on 31 March 2011 and will continue until 31 March 2018.
The Power business has not yet created a security in favour of certain debenture holders, whose debentures have a carrying value of US$44.6 million 2009: nil, in accordance to the related debenture trust deed.
This default is not considered to be significant and related terms including the maturity profile remain unchanged.
These amounts have been classified within current liabilities as at 31 December 2010. bank and financial Institutions The Group has borrowings under various loan agreements with a number of banks and financial institutions.
These lenders provide the Group with term loans, revolving facilities and letters of credit facilities.
Borrowings from banks and financial institutions of US$1,658.0 million 2009: US$1,659.9 million are subject to a master restructuring agreement MRA entered into by EOL with the lenders on 17 December 2004, prior to its acquisition by the Group.
The MRA provided EOL an option to make early repayments at any time over the term of borrowings.
The interest rates ranging from 8% to 13% per annum are subject to variation on prepayment of any borrowings.
Other loans held by the Group include an amount due to American Express Bank Limited Amex of nil 2009: US$72.9 million which were due to be separately restructured in line with MRA terms agreed by EOL.
The Amex loan was repaid during the year.
Borrowings from banks and financial institutions are generally secured pari passu with other lenders of the borrowing company with a first charge on property, plant and equipment, followed by charges over current assets and pledges of certain equity shares in subsidiaries held by the Group.
Working capital loans are secured by a first charge on the current assets and a second charge on property, plant and equipment.
Interest rates on Indian Rupee borrowings range from 8.0% to 14.5% per annum 2009: 8.0% to 14.5% while the interest rate on borrowings in other currencies ranges from 0.9% to 3.3% per annum 2009: 1.0 % to 7.0%.
The Group has undrawn committed facilities as at 31 December 2010 of US$4,046.1 million 2009: US$2,487.1 million with maturities ranging from 1 to 2 years.
Details of the maturity and interest profile of the Groups borrowings are included in Note 23.
Optionally Cumulative Redeemable preference Shares Optionally Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares OCCRPS of a nominal value Rs.
3,500 million US$68.2 million were issued on 18 March 2009 by Essar Power Limited EPOL, a subsidiary of the Group.
The OCCRPS carry interest rate of 0.1% and 8.0% per annum for the first two years and subsequent five years, respectively.
The OCCRPS are convertible into equity shares at the option of the investor in the event of a covenant default or an IPO of Essar Power Limited.
The conversion price will be determined based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at the time of conversion.
If there is no Qualified offering of EPOL, until the final redemption date, then the Preference shares will be redeemed at 14.5% to 20.5% interest per annum at the end of the original term based on valuation of EPOL.
The Group has accounted the OCCRPS at amortised cost with effective interest rate of 20.8%.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 94 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18. borrowings continued EPOL has also issued a warrant to the OCCRPS holder for a consideration of Rs.
100, which entitles the holder to subscribe to the equivalent of US$15.0 million of equity shares in EPOL at any time before an IPO of EPOL at an exercise price based on a predetermined valuation of EPOL.
The OCCRPS continues to be held as long term borrowings.
Refer to Note 20 for further information on the valuation of the warrant provided to the OCCRPS holder.
working Capital loans The Group has a number of working capital loans which are used in the ordinary course of business which are subject to interest rates ranging from 1.0% to 13.75% per annum 2009: 1.0% to 12.25% and are short term in nature.
bills of exchange Bills of exchange are accepted by banks towards payment of customer invoices and typically carry an interest rate ranging from 8.9% to 9.0% per annum 2009: 6.0% to 12.0% and are settled in a period ranging from 7 to 21 days.
Loans from related parties The Group has entered into loan agreements with companies within the EGL group.
The loans carry a range of interest from 9.5% to 12.25% per annum 2009: 0% to 10.25% on the outstanding loan balance.
Amount repayable to related parties of the Group carry a range of interest from 9.5% to 10.25% 2009: 0% to 10.25% per annum on the outstanding loan balance for further details, refer to Note 28.
An analysis of movement in net debt including current and non-current is presented in Note 23.
trade and other payables current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million 1 Trade creditors 1,536.3 2,223.1 Accrued expenses 11.3 8.9 Accrued employee cost 8.5 5.7 Due to related parties Note 28 184.4 137.7 Security deposits 2.1 2.0 2 Liability towards acquisition of non-controlling interest 98.2 Other current payable 86.4 56.4 Advances from customers 6.4 65.7 Financial guarantee obligations 4.5 4.6 Deferred purchase consideration 19.0 Tax payable 23.1 8.0 total current trade and other payables 1,980.2 2,512.1 1 Trade creditors include bills of exchange accepted by the Group which are payable within 180365 days of US$18.7 million 2009: US$518.6 million which carry interest ranging from 6.0% to 18.0%.
Other trade creditors are not interest bearing and are normally settled within 60 to 90 days.
2 The liability of US$98.2 million 2009: nil reflects amounts payable in respect of a share purchase agreement signed in April 2010 between the Group and Essar Steel Limited, a related party, to purchase the entire non-controlling interest of 26% in EPOL refer to Note 28.
trade and other payables non-current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million 1 Trade creditors 578.9 Security deposits 0.5 0.4 Due to related party Note 28 136.0 0.5 Deferred sales tax liability 224.0 122.1 Others 58.8 7.7 total non-current trade and other payables 998.2 130.7 1 Trade creditors includes bills of exchange accepted by the Group of US$560.7 million 2009: nil which are convertible, at the discretion of the Group, to long term loan facility under existing agreements with banks and financial institutions and carry interest ranging from 6% to 18%.
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
The net liability associated with the scheme is US$0.9 million 2009: US$0.4 million included above.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 95 20.
Derivative financial assets current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Commodity swaps 0.8 5.3 Commodity options 1.6 Currency forward contracts 1.3 total derivative financial assets current 2.1 6.9 20b.
Derivatives financial liabilities current 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Commodity swaps 6.2 2.2 Warrants Note 18 3.3 Interest rate swaps 3.9 Currency swaps 2.8 Currency forward contracts 14.8 10.1 total derivatives financial liabilities current 31.0 12.3 The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Commodity swaps are measured using a forward curve based on quoted futures or forward prices and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Commodity options are measured using the same data as the commodity swaps, but also uses a volatility surface derived from quoted option volatilities interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
No derivatives are designated as hedges for the purposes of financial reporting.
Warrants provided to the holder of the OCCRPS were valued through use of a binomial model by reference to forecast performance of the underlying assets.
The principal amount in respect of interest rate swaps held at 31 December 2010 was US$99.5 million carrying an interest rate of 3.0%.
Invested capital 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Opening balance 2,301.7 2,193.0 Capital contribution from Parent 625.7 108.7 Issue of shares to Parent 1,491.1 Transfer to other reserves 1,436.3 Closing balance 2,301.7 The share capital and share application money of the Refining and Marketing, Exploration and Production and Power businesses was combined and reflected in invested capital.
The Energy and Power Groups were acquired by EGL during 2006 and therefore their capital is initially brought into the consolidated financial statements as acquisitions.
Capital contribution represents further capital and share application money invested by EGL in Essar Energy Holdings Limited and Essar Power Holdings Limited.
Issues of shares to Parent represents share issued by the Company to EGL against share application money invested by EGL in Essar Energy Holdings Limited and Essar Power Holdings Limited.
The transfer to other reserve reflects the gifts of shares in Essar Energy Holdings Limited and Essar Power Holdings Limited by EGL to the Company.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 96 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Share capital 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 1,303,437,293 ordinary share of 5 pence per share 99.0 Since the Company was formed it issued 1,000,000,000 fully paid shares to its Parent Company for a total of US$1,491.1 million and issued 303,030,302 fully paid shares at a price of 4.20 in an initial public offering on 7 May 2010 with a further related over-allotment option issue of 406,991 shares of 4.20 on 4 June 2010. number Issue of shares on incorporation of 1 per share 1 Ordinary shares of 1 per share at 1 January 2010 1 Impact of shares split from 1 per share to 5 pence share 19 Issues of shares to Parent 999,999,980 Issues of shares on IPO 303,437,293 Ordinary shares of 5 pence per share at 31 December 2010 1,303,437,293 23. financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and overdrafts, debentures, finance leases and trade payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables, cash, and short term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group is subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and currency exchange rates due to nature of its operations.
The Group enters into derivative transactions, primarily in the nature of commodity option and swap contracts and forward currency contracts.
The purpose is to manage commodity price risk and currency risks arising from the Groups operations.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk and credit risk.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and floating rate debts.
The following table provides a breakdown of the Groups fixed and floating rate borrowings: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Fixed rate borrowings 3,463.8 2,693.8 Floating rate borrowings 1,033.8 415.2 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, being a 0.5% increase or decrease in interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax due to the impact on floating rate borrowings.
2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Effect on profit before tax: 1 LIBOR decrease by 50 bps 3.0 1.4 2 PLR decrease by 50 bps 1.6 0.7 1 London Inter-Bank Offer Rate LIBOR 2 Prime Lending Rate PLR, set by individual Indian banks in respect of their loans.
The impact of a 50 bps increase in interest rates on profit before tax will be as disclosed above with the exception that gains would be converted to losses.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 97 23. financial risk management objectives and policies continued foreign currency risk The Group has significant investments and operations in India.
Accordingly, its financial state of affairs can be affected significantly by movements in the Rs US dollar exchange rates.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the units functional currency.
Foreign currency swaps, options and forward contracts are used to mitigate the risk arising from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies are as follows: 2010 2009 financial financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities As at 31 December $ million $ million $ million $ million Indian rupees 1,792.8 4,447.9 1,254.2 3,164.4 United States dollar 638.8 2,733.9 119.8 2,315.4 Canadian dollars 19.5 185.8 12.7 191.4 Euro 75.5 2.0 1.3 Great Britain pound 50.9 1.3 0.1 0.1 Others 2.0 4.9 2,504.0 7,449.3 1,388.8 5,672.6 The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises in part where a Group company holds financial assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different from the functional currency of that entity with US dollar being the major non-functional currency of the Groups main operating subsidiaries.
Set out below is the impact of a 10% movement in the US dollar on profit before tax arising as a result of the revaluation of the Groups foreign currency financial assets and liabilities: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Effect of 10% strengthening of US$ against Rs on profit before tax 185.0 80.3 The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover foreign currency payments and receipts.
The Group also enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the risk associated with anticipated sales and purchase transactions.
The Group has taken forward cover of US$910.5 million 2009: US$1,377.3 million to hedge against currency risk against movement in Rs US dollar.
The impact of a 10% weakening of the US dollar on profit before tax will be the same as disclosed above except that losses would be converted to gains.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers.
The Group is also exposed to credit risk from trade receivables, dues from related parties, term deposits, liquid investments and other financial instruments.
The Group trades with recognised and creditworthy third parties.
Cash, liquid investments and term deposits are held and derivatives are dealt with in banks either international or domestic with high credit ratings reflecting the needs of the Group to operate in territories where international credit ratings are limited by the credit rating of the relevant territory.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an on-going basis.
For transactions that do not occur in the country of the relevant operating unit, the Group does not offer credit terms without the approval of the appropriate authority.
The Group does not consider there to be any significant credit risks in respect related parties.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers.
The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
Trade receivables disclosed above include amounts see below for aged analysis which are past due at the reporting date but against which the Group has not recognised an allowance for doubtful receivables because there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
No allowance for doubtful has been made in the accounts as at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
None of those trade debtors past due or impaired have had their terms renegotiated.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of debtors presented in the financial statement.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over balances with third parties nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The Group has assigned certain amounts in respect of its sales tax obligations to a related party which has been guaranteed by a counter party as described in Note 28.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 98 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23. financial risk management objectives and policies continued Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million 0-30 days 37.0 14.9 30-60 days 11.1 9.4 60-90 days 13.2 10.2 90-120 days 12.1 13.6 120-365 days 90.4 70.7 1-5 years 31.6 5 years plus 22.4 20.9 total 217.8 139.7 The aged receivables include US$158.5 million 2009: US$118.8 million in respect of amounts billed for supply of power to GUVNL.
Payments on ordinary ongoing billings are received from GUVNL regularly and are off set against amounts due.
Overdue amounts which are five years or greater are in relation to amounts due for construction activities performed which the Group have been successful in securing award of payment through arbitration proceedings.
The awards have since been challenged by the counterparties.
The amounts have not been provided for on the basis of the arbitration awards in favour of the Group.
Liquidity risk Group companies monitor their risk of shortage of funds using cash flow forecasting models.
These models consider the maturity of their financial investments, committed funding and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective is to provide financial resources to meet its business objectives in a timely, cost effective and reliable manner and to manage its capital structure in line with its two internal debt protection ratios.
A balance between continuity of funding and flexibility is maintained through the use of bank loans, debentures, preference shares and finance leases.
Out of the Groups liabilities, 27.4% will mature in less than one year 2009: 42.5%.
The maturity profile of the Groups recognised financial liabilities on a gross basis is given in the table below: weighted average effective interest rate 1yr 1-5 yrs 5 yrs total As at 31 December 2010 % $ million $ million $ million $ million Borrowings 8.6 969.3 2,817.7 2,936.2 6,723.2 Trade and other payables 1,893.1 352.1 1,371.8 3,617.0 Derivatives 27.7 27.7 Finance lease payables Note 27b 12.4 11.9 16.1 11.9 39.9 Financial guarantee contracts 4.5 4.5 2,906.5 3,185.9 4,319.9 10,412.3 Weighted average effective interest rate 1yr 1-5 yrs 5 yrs Total As at 31 December 2009 % $ million $ million $ million $ million Borrowings 8.2 1,275.5 2,611.8 1,760.9 5,648.2 Trade and other payables 2,383.3 8.2 553.5 2,945.0 Derivatives 12.3 12.3 Finance lease payables Note 27b 11.9 12.1 23.7 14.6 50.4 Financial guarantee contracts 4.6 4.6 3,687.8 2,643.7 2,329.0 8,660.5 The majority of the Groups derivative financial instruments mature within 12 months of each reporting end.
The undiscounted cash flows in respect of derivative financial instruments are US$1,086.1 million 2009: US$1,317.6 million.
Note where the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 99 23. financial risk management objectives and policies continued Commodity price risk The prices of refined petroleum products and crude oil are linked to the international prices.
The Groups revenues, costs and inventories are exposed to the risk of fluctuation in prices of crude oil and petroleum products in the international markets.
From time to time, the Group uses commodity derivative instruments to hedge the price risk of forecasted transactions such as forecast crude oil purchases and refined product sales.
These derivative instruments are considered economic hedges for which changes in their fair value are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The Group operates a risk management desk that uses hedging instruments to seek to reduce the impact of market volatility in crude oil and product prices on the Groups profitability.
To this end, the Groups risk management desk uses a range of conventional oil price-related financial and commodity derivative instruments such as futures, swaps and options that are available in the commodity derivative markets.
The derivative instruments used for hedging purposes typically do not expose the Group to market risk because the change in their market value is usually offset by an equal and opposite change in the market value of the underlying asset, liability or transaction being hedged.
The Groups open positions in commodity derivative instruments are monitored and managed on a daily basis to ensure compliance with its stated risk management policy which has been approved by the management.
Set out below is the impact of 10% increase or decrease in base crude and petroleum product prices on profit before tax as a result of change in value of the Groups commodity derivative instruments: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Effect of 10% increase in prices on profit before tax Crude Oil 11.2 10.3 Crack 0.1 0.7 Effect of 10% decrease in prices on profit before tax Crude Oil 11.2 9.2 Crack 0.1 0.7 Crack refers to the difference between the per barrel price of petroleum products and related cost of crude oil used for their production.
Capital management The Groups objectives while managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to provide adequate returns for its shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Groups policy is generally to optimise borrowings at an operating company level within an acceptable level of debt.
Equity funding for existing operations or new acquisitions is raised centrally, first from excess cash and then from new borrowings while retaining on an acceptable level of debt for the consolidated Group.
The Groups policy is to borrow using a mixture of long term and short term debts from both local and international financial markets together with operating cash generated to meet anticipated funding requirements.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short term and long term deposits.
Total Equity includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the Group as well as non-controlling interest.
2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4,497.6 3,109.0 Less: cash and cash equivalents 563.7 71.4 net debt 3,933.9 3,037.6 Total Equity 4,642.1 2,038.8 equity and net debt 8,576.0 5,076.4 Gearing ratio 45.9% 59.8% Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 100 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23. financial risk management objectives and policies continued Movements in net debt Cash Debt due Debt due and cash within one after one equivalents year year total $ million $ million $ million $ million balance as at 1 January 2010 71.4 918.9 2,190.1 3,037.6 Proceeds from borrowings 328.5 1,723.1 2,051.6 Repayment of borrowings 713.3 195.8 909.1 Movement in bills of exchange and other financing 29.5 29.5 Net increase in cash and cash equivalent 453.8 453.8 Arrangement fees for undrawn facility 50.0 50.0 Accrued interest 39.6 39.6 Change in maturity 144.5 144.5 Exchange and other differences 38.5 41.9 85.1 88.5 Closing balance as at 31 December 2010 563.7 750.0 3,747.6 3,933.9 24. financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments and their carrying amounts has been tabulated below: Carrying amount 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million financial assets At fvtpL Held for trading derivatives 2.1 6.9 Cash and cash equivalents 563.7 71.4 Loan and receivables Trade and other receivables 1,371.9 958.1 Other financial assets 566.3 311.1 AfS investments 41.3 2,504.0 1,388.8 financial liabilities At fvtpL Held for trading derivatives 31.0 12.3 At amortised cost Borrowings 4,497.6 3,109.0 Trade and other payables 2,890.5 2,513.6 Finance lease payables 25.7 33.1 financial guarantee contracts 4.5 4.6 total 7,449.3 5,672.6 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are estimated at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Other than fair value of derivatives set out in Note 20, the following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: cash and short term deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities or nature of these instruments.
the fair value of listed investments is determined by reference to market price at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The fair value of unlisted investments held by the Group is estimated with reference to the net assets of the underlying businesses at each reporting date.
the fair value of loans from banks and other financial indebtedness as well as other non-current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt or similar terms and remaining maturities.
The discounting rate ranges from 11.25% to 12.00%.
The Group financial assets and liabilities that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are derivatives Note 20 and AFS investments Note 13.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are classified as Level 2 fair value measurements, as defined by IFRS 7, being those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly i. e. price or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
AFS investments are classified as Level 3 fair value measurements, as assets held are unquoted.
There were no transfers between categories throughout the periods presented.
The carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities closely approximate their fair value except for borrowings Note 18 where fair values are estimated to be US$4,295.7 million 2009: US$3,004.1 million.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 101 25. business combinations 25a.
Acquisition of navbharat power private Limited On 12 July 2010, Essar Energy, through its subsidiary EPOL, entered in to a binding agreement for the acquisition of a 100% interest in Navabharat Power Private Limited NPPL for a consideration of US$50.2 million.
EPOL initially acquired a 76% interest for a cash consideration of US$31.2 million with the balance to be acquired upon completion of certain project milestones.
After acquisition, the Group also infused further project equity of US$21.6 million.
The transaction was treated as a 100% acquisition on 12 July 2010, as the most significant condition for its completion in respect of obtaining project financing was satisfied with remaining project milestones being procedural in nature.
NPPL is a 2,250 MW coal-fuelled power plant under construction in Orissa, India.
The project is estimated to cost a total of US$2.0 billion and is being implemented in two phases.
The first and second phase are expected to provide capacities of 1,050 MW and 1,200 MW, respectively.
Prior to the acquisition, NPPL had already obtained certain key regulatory approvals for the construction project including those in respect of environmental and forest clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forests.
By virtue of the acquisition, Group has obtained a 17.39% interest in the allocation of the Rampia coal block of 112 million tonnes and a 4.7 mmt per annum coal linkage with Coal India Limited.
The Group has accounted for the acquisition of NPPL as a business combination using the purchase method.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of NPPL as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately before the acquisition was as follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value $ million $ million $ million Assets Property, plant and equipment 4.0 69.4 73.4 Investment in joint controlled entity 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 1.1 1.1 total assets acquired 5.3 69.4 74.7 Liabilities Trade and other payables 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 23.1 23.1 total liabilities assumed 1.4 23.1 24.5 net assets 3.9 46.3 50.2 Share in net assets 50.2 Cost of acquisition 50.2 NPPL did not have any significant trading results in 2010.
Acquisition of pt bara pratama Indonesia pt bpI On April 13, 2010, Essar Energy through its subsidiary Essar Minerals FZE acquired a 99.96% voting interest in PT BPI.
PT BPI holds a 99.99% stake in PT Manoor Bulatn Lestri which own the exploitation license for a coal mine in West Kutai East Kalimantan Indonesia the Aries coal mine.
The mine has an area of 5,000 Ha and JORC compliant reserves of approx.
64 mmt with appropriate environmental approvals in place.
The process for obtaining the necessary forest approvals is currently in progress.
The Group has accounted for the above transaction as an asset acquisition.
The consideration paid in cash for the acquisition of PTBPI and PT MBL was US$118.0 million which has been recorded as an addition in the period within property, plant and equipment.
Acquisition of essar Recursos Minerals Mozambique Limitada eRMML Essar Energy acquired ERMML from Essar Minerals Limited, its fellow subsidiary within the EGL group, in April 2010 for a cash consideration of US$29.9 million.
The transaction was deemed to be at arms length.
ERMML holds a coal licence in the Cambulatsitsi, Mozambique and the mine is estimated to have coal resources of approximately 35 mmt.
Essar Energy has accounted for the above transaction as an asset acquisition with the total consideration being included as an addition in the period within property, plant and equipment.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 102 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Interest in joint controlled entities The Group acquired a 50% interest in Kenya Petroleum Refinery Limited KPRL, a joint controlled entity in July 2009.
The value of assets and liabilities of KPRL as at the acquisition date were as follows: Share of joint controlled entities $ million $ million Current assets 43.3 21.7 Non-current assets 44.6 22.3 Current liabilities 27.0 13.5 Non-current liabilities 7.1 3.6 net assets 53.8 26.9 Share in net assets 26.9 Cost of acquisition 7.8 Surplus on acquisition note 7 19.1 The Groups joint controlled entities are as follows: % Voting held Economic % held Date of by the Group by the Group Country of joint venture Name of the entity incorporation relationships 2010 2009 2010 2009 Mahan Coal Limited MCL India 13 09 2006 50.0 50.0 37.0 33.1 Rampia Coal Mines and Energy Private Limited Rampia India 12 07 2010 17.4 12.4 Kenya Petroleum Refinery Limited KPRL Kenya 31 07 2009 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 The share of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities of the joint controlled entities are as follows: Share of joint controlled entities results for the year ended 31 December 2010 $ million Revenue 17.0 Profits 1.7 Share of joint controlled entities results For the year ended 31 December 2009 $ million Revenue 6.8 Profits 0.7 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Current assets 22.5 22.3 Non-current assets 24.7 23.8 Current liabilities 11.6 13.0 Non-current liabilities 3.3 4.1 32.3 29.0 Further Groups share in contingent liabilities and capital commitment of joint controlled entities are as follows: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Contingent liabilities 13.4 3.6 Capital commitments 0.4 0.1 13.8 3.7 COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 103 27.
Contingencies Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date, not otherwise provided for in the consolidated financial statements are categorised as follows: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Claims 33.0 23.9 1 Interest payable 119.0 73.3 Bank guarantees 169.8 98.5 Disputed custom duty 16.0 17.0 Disputed income and indirect tax 16.1 11.8 Others 13.7 48.6 total 367.6 273.1 1 The Group has assumed that certain facilities will be paid at the earliest redemption date, subject to lenders confirmation and thus interest charge has been based on applicable early redemption rates.
This amount represents the cumulative additional interest that would have been charged to the income statement in the period if the related debt would not be prepaid at the earliest redemption date.
Any additional interest payable in the future is secured by a first charge on the current assets and a second charge on property, plant and equipment.
Contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably assessable but the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in this consolidated financial statements.
The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant.
Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at present, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
Sales tax benefit In relation to benefits under the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme, there is an ongoing dispute surrounding the eligibility of EOL to qualify for the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme.
An order was issued by the Honourable High Court of Gujarat on 22 April 2008, which confirmed, amongst other things, that EOL is eligible for the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme.
Subsequently the State Government of Gujarat filed a Special Leave Petition in the Honourable Supreme Court, challenging the order of the Honourable High Court.
The case has not yet been heard by the Honourable Supreme Court but the Group believes it has a high likelihood of success.
In order to qualify for the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme, various conditions must be met including ensuring certain percentages of employees are local, re-investing certain amounts of the benefit, adhering to specified pollution control measures and also contributing a certain amount to prescribed rural development scheme in the State of Gujarat by the Group over a period estimated to be up to 17 years to ensure that the full benefit of the sales tax deferral which has been recorded can be retained by the Group.
In the event that such conditions are not met, the payment of sales tax including interest to the State of Gujarat will be accelerated, and there will be an accounting charge to reflect the fact that the liability is discounted.
As a consequence, there may be an additional potential liability resulting from a breach of financial covenants as stipulated under the MRA of EOL.
Management believes there is a high likelihood that these conditions will be met.
As of 31 December 2010, the Group has collected and retained an amount of US$950.6 million 2009: US$553.5 million with the cumulative effect of discounting net of the effect of unwinding being US$698.2 million 2009: US$413.4 million.
Claim by customer On 14 September 2005, GUVNL, an entity controlled by the State of Gujarat, filed a petition against EPOL with the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission the GERC alleging that EPOL diverted electricity generated by its Hazira power plant to Essar Steel, a related party, in violation of its power purchase agreement PPA with the Gujarat Electricity Board, whose assets and liabilities were transferred to GUVNL in 2003 and incorrectly claimed certain fuel generation credits from GUVNL between 1996 and 2006.
GUVNL claimed a total of approximately US$353.3 million 2009: US$339.1 million from the Group.
On 18 February 2009, the GERC ruled in favour of GUVNL for the diversion of electricity by EPOL.
The GERC also awarded GUVNL a refund for generation incentives incorrectly claimed from 14 September 2002 to 29 May 2006.
The GERC, however, ruled that recovery of the incorrectly claimed generation incentives and of compensation for the electricity supplied to Essar Steel Limited in breach of the PPA prior to September 2002 was barred by the applicable statute of limitation.
Both EPOL and GUVNL appealed the GERCs ruling to the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, New Delhi.
The Appellate Tribunal held on 22 February 2010 that EPOL was not liable to pay compensation for alleged wrongful diversion of power to Essar Steel or for the reimbursement of the annual fixed charges.
The Appellate Tribunal further held that EPOL was liable to refund to GUVNL the deemed generation incentive paid on and after 14 September 2002 which the Group had already provided for.
On 29 January 2010, EPOL filed a petition before the GERC against GUVNL claiming certain payments due to it under the PPA.
EPOL has made a claim for an aggregate amount of US$87.8 million 2009: US$84.4 million comprising delayed payment charges, depreciation, foreign exchange variation, interest on debentures, bill discounting charges, interest on working capital and alleged wrongful deduction of rebate by GUVNL.
The matter is pending before the GERC.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 104 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Contingencies, commitments and guarantees continued In respect of the outstanding claims, the Group does not expect to incur costs or loss in excess of amounts provided in defending its position and recovering its dues.
In April 2010, GUVNL filed two separate appeals before the Supreme Court against the common judgement of the Appellate Tribunal for stay of the implementation of the order of the Appellate Tribunal.
The Group has filed caveats against the stay to oppose admission of the appeals as well as the grants of stay.
The case was heard in May 2010 and after hearing the arguments from both parties, the court directed to file written submissions.
The written submissions have been filed by both parties.
Hearing on the admission of the appeal is expected shortly.
Other claims There are a number of other claims in connection with the Group.
However management believes that the probability of future liabilities in respect of such claims is remote and no amounts have been provided or disclosed as contingent liabilities over the periods presented.
Contingent assets In June 1998, a cyclone hit the west coast of India which caused extensive damages to the refinery site leading to delays in the construction and completion of the refinery.
The insurance company and the Company have since decided to settle the claim by arbitration.
The Company had filed an initial claim of US$674.0 million 2009: US$647.0 million before the arbitration panel covering loss of profit, material damage and interest.
During the arbitration proceedings, the Company had revised its claim.
The arbitration proceedings are currently at an advanced stage.
Pending the outcome of arbitration, the claim amount is not recognised in the financial statements.
Commitments Finance lease the Group as lessee The Group has finance leases in respect of certain buildings as well as plant and machinery.
Such leases have terms of renewal without any purchase options or escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Minimum Present value of minimum lease payments lease payments 2010 2009 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million $ million $ million Payable less than 1 year 11.9 12.1 10.8 10.4 Payable later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 16.1 23.7 11.6 18.5 Payable later than 5 years 11.9 14.6 3.3 4.2 total 39.9 50.4 25.7 33.1 Less: Future finance charges 14.2 17.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 25.7 33.1 Capital commitments The Group has capital commitments of US$6,489.7 million 2009: US$6,877.2 million in respect of contracts entered into for which works are ongoing.
Of the outstanding capital commitments at 31 December 2010 US$2,484.2 million are expected to crystallise within one year.
Export obligations The Group imports capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme and raw materials under the Advance License Scheme to utilise the benefit of a zero or concessional customs duty rate.
These benefits are subject to future incremental exports by the Group within the stipulated period.
The Group has following outstanding export obligations: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Export obligations 1,334.4 582.7 Based on past performance, market conditions and business plans, the management expects to fulfil the incremental export obligation within the stipulated period.
The expiry of export obligations is as follows: 2010 2009 As at 31 December $ million $ million Due in later than 1 year and not more than 5 years 553.2 79.9 Due in more than 5 years 781.2 502.8 1,334.4 582.7 27c.
Corporate guarantees The Group has provided a number of guarantees in respect of companies outside of the Group to third party lenders that were entered into prior to IPO and amount to US$151.0 million 2009: US$61.8 million.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 105 27.
Contingencies, commitments and guarantees continued Any potential losses incurred in the future by the Group of up to US$197.0 million in respect of these guarantees are indemnified by EGL.
The majority of guarantees provided have been treated as insurance contracts in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Related parties The Group, as discussed in Note 1, is part of the wider group of companies controlled by EGL and its controlling shareholders and as a result has entered into a number of transactions with other wider Essar group entities the Essar Group.
The Group shares many functions and services that are performed by various members of the Essar Group for which costs are allocated across the relevant benefiting entities which have benefited.
The costs have been historically allocated on a basis which the Essar Group believes is a reasonable reflection of the utilisation of each service provided or the benefit received by each Essar Group company.
The allocated costs, while reasonable, may not necessarily be indicative of the costs that would have been incurred by the Company if it had performed these functions or received these services as a stand-alone entity.
The Company and EGL entered into a Relationship Agreement, the principal purpose of which was to ensure that following listing, the Group was capable of carrying on its business independently of EGL and its associates.
Balances and transactions between entities within the Group, which are related parties, have been eliminated and are not disclosed in this note.
transactions with parent Company EGL is the ultimate parent company of the Group throughout the financial period.
The ultimate controlling entities of EGL are the Virgo and Triton Trusts, whose beneficiaries include, among others, companies, whose controlling shareholders are Mr Ravi Ruia and Mr Prashant Ruia.
The Groups balances outstanding with EGL are as follows: for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Outstanding balances $ million $ million Trade and other receivables 15.0 Trade and other payables 2.5 EGL has also provided guarantees to third party lenders in respect of the Group amounting to US$3,173.4 million 2009: US$749.8 million.
No significant transactions have occurred with EGL during the periods presented, except those which formed the Group as described in Note 1 and those set out above.
transactions with entities in the essar Group excluding the parent Company The Group has undertaken transactions and has outstanding balances with Essar Group affiliates as follows: for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 transactions with essar Group companies $ million $ million Sale of goods and services 193.9 144.4 Purchases of goods and services 224.5 245.1 Interest income 18.9 6.4 Interest expense 15.6 7.1 Purchase of investment 0.1 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 1,967.7 161.0 Sale of investment 33.2 3.7 Sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 As at 31 December 2010 2009 balances with essar Group companies $ million $ million Trade and other receivables current 182.6 65.9 non-current 293.2 124.5 Amounts due for capital work in progress 534.7 158.5 Trade and other payables current 184.4 135.2 non-current 136.0 0.5 Loans payable current 97.8 Loans payable non-current 213.9 Finance lease payable 14.5 14.9 Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 106 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Related parties continued Certain related parties have provided guarantees to third party lenders in respect of the Group amounting to US$2,747.6 million 2009: US$2,383.5 million.
The Group has also provided guarantees in respect of borrowings of certain related parties amounting to US$65.5 million 2009: US$58.7 million.
Any potential losses incurred in the future by the Group in respect of guarantees given on behalf of related parties are indemnified by EGL.
transactions with joint controlled entities On 31 July 2009, the Group acquired 50% joint control of KPRL Note 26.
During the year, the Group sold goods of US$1.7 million 2009: nil to KPRL and no balances are outstanding.
During the period, the Group invested a further a sum of US$2.0 million 2009: US$1.0 million in KPRL.
terms and conditions of transactions with related parties The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on contractually agreed prices.
Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and bear interest at rates ranging from 9.5% to 10.25%.
The Group has not recorded any impairment of receivables due from related parties.
An assessment for impairment of related party receivables is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Related party contracts EGL and companies in the Essar Group are party to a significant number of arrangements with the Group.
The Group is reliant on the Essar Group for a number of ongoing, and in some cases, long term, arrangements including customer and supply contracts, transport and logistics services, construction and other services in relation to the Expansion Projects and corporate and administrative services.
These arrangements between members of the Group and the Essar Group are summarised below.
Shared services The Group leases office and other space from certain companies in the Essar Group.
In addition, the Group receives certain services from the Essar Group relating to accommodation, telecommunications infrastructure and internet connections, travel and related services including management and maintenance services for aviation related activities, technical services and ground handling services, treasury functions, management consultancy, maintenance of greenbelt in respect of the Vadinar refinery, technical storage facilities, business centre facilities, managerial support and corporate functions including financial advice, legal advice, and advice on matters related to corporate governance, environmental management, risk and insurance, taxation, aircraft usage and related services, information technology services, payroll processing and other HR services and shared services for accounting activities.
The services are generally provided for a period of between three and seven years, terminable by either party on 30 to 180 days notice.
Intellectual property Certain members of the Group have been granted the right to use the Essar name for the purposes of their corporate identities and for operating their businesses worldwide.
The total amount payable by the Company under the licence agreement is approximately 1.
The total amount payable by Essar Oil and Essar Power under their licence agreement is equal to 0.25% of each of their net revenues i. e. exclusive of value added tax and excise duty in the case of Essar Power, and exclusive of taxes, duties and crude oil cost in the case of Essar Oil generated by their respective business each quarter, with an increase of 0.15% every year over a period of 5 years until it reaches 1.0%.
The Licensor has agreed to waive fees payable under these licence agreements for the period from 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011. power business Construction projects The Power business has a number of contracts with companies in the Essar Group in relation to onshore and offshore engineering, construction, procurement, transportation and project management services.
Power purchase agreements The Group has entered, and expects to enter into additional, long term PPAs with companies in the Essar Group.
Key contracts in respect of operational power plants include: a PPA expiring in 2026 with Essar Steel for the supply of power from the Essar Power-Hazira power plant to Essar Steel.
PPAs expiring in 2030 with a number of companies in the Essar Group for the supply of power from Bhander Power-Hazira power plant.
PPAs expiring in 2029 with Essar Steel Algoma for the supply of all the power produced by the Essar Power Canada power plant.
Key contracts in connection with power plant projects not yet operational include a number of PPAs for the supply of power to Essar Steel and other companies in the Essar Group.
These contracts are each for period of 25 years from the date of commencement of commercial operations of the plant to supply the power under the PPA.
These power plant projects include the Essar Power MP-Mahan project, the Essar Power Hazira-Hazira project, the Essar Power Orissa-Paradip project and the Vadinar Power expansion projects.
The Group has also issued a number of performance guarantees in favour of Essar Steel and other Essar Group companies in respect of its performance under the PPAs.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 107 28.
Related parties continued Water and fuel supply agreements Members of the Group are parties to a number of contracts with members of the Essar Group for the procurement, supply, management and handling of fuel and water needed to generate power.
Key contracts in connection with operational power plants include: the Group has a water and fuel management agreement with Essar Steel to run concurrently with the Groups PPA with Essar Steel for the procurement and supply of fuel needed to generate the power that Essar Steel has committed to take from the Essar Power-Hazira power plant pursuant to its PPA: the Group has contracts with Essar Steel and other Essar Companies whereby those companies are responsible for providing the natural gas required by the Bhander Power Hazira plant, to generate the power that the Essar Group has committed to take pursuant to the respective PPAs: and the Group is party to a contract with Essar Steel Algoma expiring in 2029 or such later date as agreed by the parties pursuant to which surplus blast furnace gases and coke oven gas are supplied by Essar Steel Algoma to the Group in return for power and steam for use at Essar Steel Algomas steelworks.
Key contracts in connection with power plant projects not yet fully operational include: the Group has entered into a number of long term agreements ranging from 20 to 25 years for coal supply, coal handling and coal affreightment, to secure the supply of coal to the Essar Power Gujarat-Salaya power plant.
the Group has entered in to a 25 year water and fuel supply agreement with Essar Steel Hazira for the Vadinar power plant expansion project.
under certain agreement the Essar Group has an obligation to provide fuel and water for the power plants and projects at Orissa and Hazira.
the Group has entered into a long term agreement for coal handling in respect of the Essar Power Vadinar Power expansion project.
Other arrangements Operations and maintenance agreement with Essar Steel The Power business has agreed to provide operations and maintenance services to Essar Steel for the 25 MW power plant of Essar Steel located at Visakhapatnam for a term of 15 years from 1 July 2006 at cost plus profit margin of 15% which will increase by a growth rate of 6% on an annual basis.
Leases A company within the Group has agreed to lease the site of the Essar Orissa-Paradip power plant from the Essar Group.
The lease is for a period of 90 years.
Rent payable under the lease will be determined by the parties at the time of execution of the lease.
Essar Power Hazira and Essar Power Transco have agreed to lease the site for their projects from the Essar Group.
Oil and gas business Exploration and Production The Group has contracted with certain Essar Group companies for the hiring of drilling rig services, along with related equipment, personnel, instruments, materials, stores, accommodation and other services at its various exploration blocks.
These expiry dates of these agreements range from 2012 to 2019.
The Group has also contracted with certain Essar Group companies for laying gas pipelines and for certain engineering and design services.
Refinery expansion projects In connection with the certain refinery projects, the Group has contracted with various Essar Group companies for engineering services, project management services, project construction, equipment transport and handling services, petroleum handling services, and the supply of equipment and bulk materials.
Certain Essar Group companies are required to provide performance guarantees and corporate guarantees in favour of the Group in relation to each of the contracts for these services.
Shipping and logistics The Essar Group provides the Vadinar refinery with logistical services for transporting refined petroleum products by road from the refinery to various depots and other locations within India, where those products are ultimately sold.
The contract relating to the provision of these services expires on 31 March 2017.
Petroleum handling The Group has a petroleum handling agreement with an Essar Group company expiring on 31 March 2014, under which the Essar Group provides services for the receipt, handling, storage and dispatch of the Groups crude oil and intermediate and refined petroleum products.
The agreement includes a minimum monthly charge.
Further, under the terms of the agreement, the Group supplies all utilities to the Essar Group company, including power, water and steam, at no additional cost.
Maintenance and supplies The Group has contracted with certain Essar Group companies to provide maintenance services, including technical services and day to day maintenance to their facilities situated at the Vadinar refinery.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 108 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Related parties continued Leases The Group leases the site of the Vadinar port terminal operations to an Essar Group company under a 30 year lease due to expire in December 2035 and renewable by the Essar Group for a further 30 year period at an annual rent of approximately Rs.
The residential township and transit accommodation, used by employees and visitors of the Petroleum refinery, were leased by the Group for a period of 20 years at an annual rent of approximately Rs.
151.9 million US$3.4 million from a related party of the Essar Group.
On expiry of the lease in 2027, the Group has an option to extend the lease under mutually agreed terms and conditions.
Sales tax liability assignment The Group receives certain sales tax incentives under the Capital Investment Incentive Premier Prestigious Unit Scheme 1995- 2000.
In connection with this arrangement, the Group has assigned its liability for the sales tax collected during the three years ended 31 December 2010 to a related party of the Essar Group and has paid the present value in relation to such liability to that entity.
The Group has received a guarantee from an Essar Group company for the assigned amount.
Inter corporate deposits The Group has entered into Inter Corporate Deposits contracts with an Essar Group company for Rs.
12,750 million US$284.5 million and the amount outstanding against these contracts including interest as of 31 December 2010 is Rs.
transactions in respect of the Groups non-controlling stake During 2010 the Group acquired an additional interest in EOL from a related party for a net cash outflow of US$52.4 million.
Additionally, the Group also entered into agreements to purchase certain non-controlling stakes as described below: Essar Power share purchase agreement Essar Power Holding Limited EPH entered into a share purchase agreement, governed by Indian law, dated 6 April 2010 with Essar Steel Limited, a related party, pursuant to which Essar Steel Limited has agreed to transfer its shareholding of 217,000,000 equity shares, representing 26% of the issued equity share capital of Essar Power Limited to EPH for a consideration of Rs.
Apart from customary conditions precedent, such as the receipt of all regulatory approvals in relation to the transfer, the transfer is subject to the commencement of commercial operations in Unit I of the Essar Power GujaratSalaya project, the Essar Power MP-Mahan project and Phase I and Phase II of the existing power plant of VPCL.
This condition precedent may be waived by EPH at any time.
The sale is also subject to EPH providing Essar Steel Limited an indemnity towards reimbursement of any cross subsidy surcharge payable by Essar Steel Limited under applicable law as a result of the transfer of its shareholding in Essar Power Limited.
However, this requirement may be waived by Essar Steel Limited at its discretion.
The transfer of Essar Steel Limiteds shareholding in Essar Power Limited to EPH is subject to applicable law and may not be given effect to in the event the conditions precedent are not satisfied or waived prior to 30 September 2011.
Pending completion of such sale, Essar Steel has agreed that the exercise of its voting rights in respect of its shares in Essar Power shall be subject to the prior approval of EPH in relation to a number of matters including the following matters: a capital expenditures or acquisitions of assets, unless already in the annual business plan: b all related party transactions including the terms and conditions for such transactions: and c declaration or payment of any dividend.
EOL call option agreement Under a call option agreement dated 6 April 2010 and the related addendum agreement signed on 30 December 2010, Essar Energy Holding EEH, a subsidiary of the Company, has an option to acquire the shares held by Essar Investments in EOL in the period between 1 May 2010 and 31 December 2011 at the higher of: a Rs.
153 and b the minimum price required to be paid under applicable law, which is currently the closing price of the shares of EOL on the relevant stock exchange on the date preceding the date of the transfer of the shares.
In the event of the option lapsing, holding cost payable is measured as 10% of the higher of a the average weekly high and low of the closing prices of the share of EOL during the 26 weeks period prior to 1 January 2012: and b the average of the daily high and low of the prices of the shares EOL during the two week period prior to 1 January 2012.
The shares held by Essar Investments Limited are presently pledged in favour of various Indian banks and the actual transfer of the shares pursuant to the exercise of the call option by EEH will be subject to the release of these pledges by the relevant banks.
In light of the shares being pledged, the addendum agreement extended the vesting period of the option by a further 12 months.
Essar Investment Limited has also waived the holding costs payable as the shares cannot be delivered and are encumbered.
Remuneration of Directors and key-management personnel Remunerations paid to Directors and key management personnel were primarily in the form of short term employee benefits amounting to US$4.0 million 2009: US$1.3 million.
COMpAny OveRvIew buSIneSS RevIew GOveRnAnCe fInAnCIAL StAteMentS Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 109 29.
Subsidiaries % Voting held by Economic % held by the Group the Group As at 31 December No.
Company Country of Incorporation Principal activities 2010 2009 2010 2009 1 Essar Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2 Vadinar Oil Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 3 Essar Oil Limited India Refinery and marketing 87.1 76.7 87.1 76.7 4 Vadinar Power Company Limited India Captive power plant 100.0 100.0 77.4 68.9 1 5 Essar Oil Vadinar Limited India Refinery 100.0 76.7 6 Essar Energy Overseas Limited Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 7 Essar Petroleum East Africa Limited Kenya Trading 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 8 Essar Oil UK Limited United Kingdom Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 9 Essar Oil Germany GmbH Germany Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 10 Essar Oil Stanlow Limited United Kingdom Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2 11 Essar Syngas Limited Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 12 Essar Infrastructure Africa Limited Nigeria Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 13 Essar Chemicals Limited Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 14 Essar Gujarat Petrochemicals Limited India Petrochemical 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 15 Essar Arkema Chemicals Holdings Mauritius Investment holding 2 Limited 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 16 Essar Eastman Chemicals Holdings Mauritius Investment holding 2 Limited 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 17 Essar Exploration and Production Limited Mauritius Exploration and Production 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 18 Essar Exploration & Production Limited Nigeria Exploration and Production 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 19 Essar Exploration and Production India India Exploration and Production Limited 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 20 Essar Exploration and Production Madagascar Exploration and Production 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2 Madagascar Limited 21 Essar Power Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 22 Essar Power Hazira Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment holding Formerly: Hazira Steel 2 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 23 Essar Minerals FZE UAE Mining Company 100.0 100.0 24 Algoma Power Cooperatief U.
A Netherlands Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 25 Algoma Power B. V Netherlands Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 26 Essar Power Canada Limited Canada Power plant 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 3 27 Algoma Energy LP Canada Power plant 100.0 - 100.0 28 Essar Power Limited India Power plant 74.0 66.2 74.0 66.2 29 Essar Power Overseas Limited BVI Investment holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 30 Essar Power Transmission Company India Power Transmission Limited 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 31 Essar Power Jharkhand Limited India Power plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 32 Essar Power Chattisgarh Limited India Power plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 33 Essar Power Hazira Limited formerly India Power plant named Essar Hazira Power SEZ Limited 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 34 Essar Power MP Limited India Power plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 35 Essar Power Gujarat Limited India Power plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 36 Essar Wind Power Private Limited India Wind turbine 100.0 100.0 100.0 66.2 4 37 Essar Power Orissa Limited India Power plant 74.0 74.0 54.8 49.0 38 Essar Power Tamil Nadu Limited India Power plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 39 Essar Electric Power Development India Power trading Corporation Limited 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 40 Bhander Power Limited India Power plant 74.0 74.0 54.8 49.0 41 Essar Power Salaya Limited Formerly: India Power plant Essar Power Paradeep Limited 100.0 100.0 74.0 66.2 42 Main Street 736 Proprietary Limited South Africa Investment holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 43 Essar Energy Services UK Limited United Kingdom Investment holding 100.0 100.0 44 Essar Energy Services Mauritius Limited Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 45 Essar Power Nepal Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment holding 100.0 100.0 Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 110 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Subsidiaries continued % Voting held by Economic % held by the Group the Group As at 31 December No.
Company Country of Incorporation Principal activities 2010 2009 2010 2009 46 Essar Power East Africa Limited Kenya 100.0 100.0 47 Navabharat Power Private Limited India Power plant 100.0 74.0 48 Essar Power & Minerals S. A.
Limited Mauritius Investment holdings 100.0 74.0 49 Essar Recursos Minerals fide Mozambique Mozambique Coal mine Limitada 100.0 74.0 50 PT Essar Minerals Indonesia Indonesia Coal mine 100.0 74.0 51 PT Bara Pratma Indonesia Indonesia Coal mine 100.0 74.0 52 PT Manoor Bultan Lestari Indonesia Indonesia Coal mine 100.0 74.0 1 Merged with Essar Oil Limited.
3 Merged with Essar Power Canada Limited.
4 Holding reflected economic interest including Participating Preference Shares issued by the entity to Essar Power Limited, its direct parent.
Subsequent events Significant events since the balance sheet date are set out on page 52.
