BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Shareholder communications The Board receives detailed reports at each scheduled Board Filtrona seeks to maintain open and transparent Meeting on the operational and financial performance of the relationships with its shareholders and other stakeholders, businesses from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance including providers of finance, customers and suppliers.
This Director, together with regular updates on any material is achieved by regular updates through press announcements, issues which may impact on the Group the corporate website and other published material.
The Board receives reports from the Company Secretary The Company also communicates regularly with its major & General Counsel on any material legal and compliance institutional shareholders and ensures that all the Directors, issues which may impact on the Group including the Non-executive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders and are The Board receives copies of the minutes from all able to explain business developments and financial results Executive Committee meetings and discuss any material as appropriate.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance issues arising therefrom at each scheduled Board meeting Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
The Executive Committee, Presentations for analysts and institutional shareholders which meets at least twice per month, is made up of the were held during the year, including a site visit to Kidlington Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Company and Nottingham, and meetings were also held with key Secretary & General Counsel and the Director of Group institutional investors to discuss strategy, financial Human Resources.
Each meeting includes a review of performance and investment activities.
Slide presentations health & safety and trading performance, acquisition and are made immediately available after the full year and half investment activity, material contract and litigation year results and are also available on the Companys website issues, risk management and any concerns arising from to view and download.
personnel matters Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the the Board so they are aware of any issues or concerns.
effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group, supported by the Group Head of Audit.
The Group Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to Head of Audit provides detailed reports and the external communicate with all shareholders, including private auditor advises the Audit Committee in writing of any investors, who are provided with the opportunity to areas of concern identified during the course of their audit question the Directors.
The Audit Committee considers any issues raised in any reports and monitors The number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution the actions taken by the Company in response to those proposed at the AGM will be made available, both at the issues.
The internal audit programme for each year is meeting and subsequently on the Companys website.
planned using a number of factors, including the size and Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate nature of the operations, any previous years findings and resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and any changes in the day to day management processes or Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions teams, and the programme is discussed and agreed with from shareholders.
the Audit Committee The Notice of the AGM and related papers will be posted to The Audit Committee meets with the external auditor and shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
the Group Head of Audit without the Executive Directors or other senior executives in attendance Internal control In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its The Audit Committee reviews a risk management report responsibility to ensure that an adequate system of internal from the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee controls is in place which is essential for reliable financial at each meeting.
The risk management report includes an reporting and also for the effective management of the analysis of the key risks at a Group level and within the Group.
The Audit Committee assesses the quality of the operating businesses, summarises developments control environment when monitoring and reviewing the potentially impacting the Group from a risk, governance integrity of the Groups financial statements and any or compliance perspective and proposes actions for the significant judgements that were made in their preparation.
Company in response to such developments.
The Audit Committee considers any issues raised in the report and Filtronas internal controls are designed to safeguard the monitors the actions taken by the Company in response Companys assets and to ensure the integrity and reliability to those issues of information used both within the businesses and for public announcements.
The Board has overall responsibility The Audit Committee receives regular risk management for the Companys system of internal control and risk presentations from senior management within the management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this respective divisions system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business The Audit Committee receives a report from the objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and Company Secretary & General Counsel on any issues not absolute, assurance against material misstatement raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing or loss.
procedure and monitors the actions taken by the Company in response to those issues The following procedures are in place which enable the Board to review the effectiveness of the system The Board has the opportunity to review the internal of internal control: control environment at local sites when Board meetings are held away from the Companys head office 68 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued Every month each division submits detailed operating and Control of significant risks financial reports covering all aspects of performance.
The Board has two main responsibilities in relation to risk.
These are reviewed within the Groups central finance One is to determine the risk appetite and communicate to function and summary reports are communicated to the the organisation what constitutes acceptable risk-taking.
Executive Committee and the Board The second responsibility is to oversee the management process for the identification, assessment and mitigation Compliance certificates are required from the of risk across the Group.
businesses to confirm compliance with the Groups policies and procedures A Group Risk policy to support the Board in fulfilling those responsibilities and to reinforce the continuing risk review The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion processes embedded within the businesses is in place.
The audit includes the review The Board is of the view that a rigorous ongoing process for and test of the system of internal financial control and the identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced data contained in the financial statements to the extent by the Company was in place throughout 2010 and up to the necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and date of approval of the Annual Report for 2010. fairness of the financial statements.
This process includes: Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-today management of the businesses are delegated to the Businesses are required to implement processes to Chief Executive supported by the Executive Committee and formally identify risks, consider their financial and to the respective Divisional Managing Directors or Presidents non-financial implications and, so far as possible, take as appropriate within delegated authority limits and in action to reduce those risks.
The process includes the accordance with clearly defined systems of internal control.
maintenance of a register for identifying and evaluating significant risks and the related financial, operational and During 2010 the GOC which consists of the Executive compliance controls to mitigate their impact Committee members, the Divisional Managing Directors or Presidents, as appropriate, and the Director of Corporate Divisional executives are required to include risk Development, met quarterly to discuss health & safety management on agendas for their regular management performance, risk management, business performance, meetings and to report to the Risk Management employee-related matters, including succession planning, Committee RMC on actions taken to review the and key operational and financial management issues across effectiveness of their controls Filtronas international businesses.
Biographies of the GOC members demonstrating the range of management The submission by each division of quarterly risk expertise within the Companys senior executive team profiles to the RMC for its review and reporting to appear on pages 42 to 43. the Audit Committee Policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing Each division presenting during the year to either the RMC review and updated as required in response to strategic, or the Audit Committee on issues detailed within the operational, business, legal or regulatory developments, quarterly risk profiles and matters such as business with the approval of the Board or its respective Committees continuity planning and disaster recovery.
This regular as appropriate, are communicated across the Company and schedule of presentations enhances the Boards oversight designed to ensure significant risks, investment decisions and understanding of the key risks impacting on the and management issues are identified, considered and conduct of the Groups businesses and the actions taken escalated as necessary at the earliest opportunity.
Divisional to minimise their effect on the delivery of Filtronas Managing Directors and Presidents are responsible for strategic objectives ensuring the communication of and compliance with Filtronas internal controls across their respective divisions.
Group manuals detailing accounting requirements and establishing comprehensive policies in relation to matters The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the which are regarded as prudent to ensure that appropriate fact that the Groups cash flow from operating activities controls are maintained across the Group, including in represented 100% of underlying operating profit in 2010, relation to business conduct, conflict of interests, health & reflecting what is believes to be a robust control environment.
safety and other corporate responsibility matters The Board believe that this management structure ensures A comprehensive insurance programme a strong link between Filtronas overall corporate strategy and its implementation within an effective internal control environment.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com The RMC is chaired by the Company Secretary & General The Company operates a comprehensive budgeting and Counsel, which ensures an appropriate separation of powers financial reporting system.
Annual budgets are reviewed and and division of responsibilities particularly in relation to approved at both divisional and corporate level.
The other members are the Executive includes the analysis of significant risks relating to market Committee, the Group Head of Audit and the Group Head trends and operational performance.
Monthly performance of Tax and Treasury.
The RMC met five times during the year.
is reported against budget and the prior year and forecasts are updated as appropriate.
Monthly management accounts The RMC enhances managements ability to review and analyse and explain variances and report on performance monitor the effectiveness of risk control on a regular basis.
indicators, with detailed explanations for variances and The terms of reference of the RMC include supporting movements on updated forecasts being reviewed by corporate governance requirements, recommending the Board.
business risk strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
They The Audit Committee review the arrangements by which also include the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness concerns about financial reporting or other matters in of controls.
accordance with the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
During the year, the RMC continued to receive presentations Financial reporting from each of the Divisions focusing attention on the local The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of contingency plans that the businesses have in place.
Directors Responsibilities set out on page 50, their Additionally there was the consideration of risks associated responsibility for preparing the financial statements of the with refinancing, acquisition activity, business performance Company and the Group.
The external auditor has included, and the transfer of business operations in response to in the Independent Auditors Report set out on page 111, customer needs and operational demands.
The RMC review a statement about their reporting responsibilities.
not only gives consideration to financial and operational matters but also has regard to non-financial matters such as The Directors are also responsible for the publication of health & safety, environmental, social and employee issues unaudited quarterly Interim Management Statements and impacting the Group and reputational risk.
Half Year Results as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority Where appropriate, the Company takes external expert providing an explanation of material events and transactions advice when reviewing the Companys exposure to risk.
that have taken place during the relevant period and their impact on the financial position of the Company and the The resources of the Companys internal audit department Group and a general description of the financial position and are augmented with independent expert external resource performance of the Company and the Group during the wherever necessary to review risk and monitor compliance relevant period.
with the Companys policies and procedures across its international operations.
Accordingly the resources of the department, together with the additional available resources, are considered adequate.
The externally facilitated review of the Companys internal audit and risk management functions concluded that whilst the current processes continued to meet the appropriate standards for corporate governance requirements, further benefits could be derived in response to the ongoing business needs of the Group.
A number of recommendations will be implemented during 2011 which will further enhance the risk management process.
Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Company.
Taxation, treasury and insurance functions report to the Board via the Group Finance Director.
The legal and governance compliance functions report to the Board via the Company Secretary & General Counsel, whilst the Chief Executive, supported by the Director of Group Human Resources and the Company Secretary & General Counsel, reports to the Board on corporate responsibility issues.
70 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Note m m Revenue 2 489.6 444.0 Operating profit before intangible amortisation 2009: intangible amortisation, major restructuring costs and exceptional acquisition fees 75.0 56.2 Intangible amortisation 3.0 3.1 Major restructuring costs 8.9 Exceptional acquisition fees 1.9 Operating profit 2,3 72.0 42.3 Finance income 4 12.0 9.3 Finance expense 4 22.4 19.3 Profit before tax 61.6 32.3 Income tax expense 5 19.1 12.1 Profit from continuing operations 42.5 20.2 Profit loss from discontinued operations 24 6.8 6.7 Profit for the year 49.3 13.5 Attributable to: Equity holders of Filtrona plc 47.7 11.8 Non-controlling interests 1.6 1.7 Profit for the year 49.3 13.5 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of Filtrona plc: Basic 7 23.3p 5.8p Diluted 7 22.9p 5.7p Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of Filtrona plc: Basic 7 20.0p 9.1p Diluted 7 19.6p 9.0p BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Note m m Profit for the year 49.3 13.5 Other comprehensive income Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes 18 5.0 6.4 Deferred tax credit expense on actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes 1.3 2.0 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges: Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 0.7 8.0 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.3 1.0 Foreign exchange translation differences: Transferred to loss on disposal of discontinued operations 24 1.1 Attributable to equity holders of Filtrona plc: Arising on translation of foreign operations 2.9 16.6 Arising on effective net investment hedges 2.7 2.2 Income tax charge credit on effective net investment hedges 1.0 2.2 Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.9 0.5 2.2 2.4 Total comprehensive income 51.5 11.1 Attributable to: Equity holders of Filtrona plc 49.0 9.9 Non-controlling interests 2.5 1.2 Total comprehensive income 51.5 11.1 72 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Note m m Assets Property, plant and equipment 8 156.1 153.9 Intangible assets 9 107.3 98.1 Deferred tax assets 16 1.4 2.2 Other receivables 1,11 2.9 5.3 Total non-current assets 267.7 259.5 Inventories 10 59.1 51.7 Income tax receivable 4.2 2.3 Trade and other receivables 1,11 73.1 67.1 Derivative assets 1,15 0.4 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1,12 40.0 32.0 Total current assets 176.8 153.7 Total assets 444.5 413.2 Equity Issued capital 19 54.8 54.8 Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1 Other reserve 20 132.8 132.8 Cash flow hedging reserve 0.6 1.0 Translation reserve 17.6 13.0 Retained earnings 20 248.7 219.6 Attributable to equity holders of Filtrona plc 187.8 153.7 Non-controlling interests 9.6 7.4 Total equity 197.4 161.1 Liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,14 116.8 139.1 Derivative liabilities 1,15 0.5 1.8 Retirement benefit obligations 18 17.6 22.6 Income tax payable 4.5 4.7 Provisions 17 1.2 1.5 Deferred tax liabilities 16 9.5 8.6 Total non-current liabilities 150.1 178.3 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,14 14.0 Derivative liabilities 1,15 2.0 1.3 Income tax payable 14.5 12.3 Trade and other payables 1,13 63.6 55.3 Provisions 17 2.9 4.9 Total current liabilities 97.0 73.8 Total liabilities 247.1 252.1 Total equity and liabilities 444.5 413.2 The consolidated financial statements on pages 70 to 106 were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Mark Harper Steve Crummett Chief Executive Group Finance Director BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 Capital Cash flow NonIssued redemption Other hedging Translation Retained controlling Total capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interests equity m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 54.8 0.1 132.8 1.0 13.0 219.6 7.4 161.1 Profit for the year 47.7 1.6 49.3 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 0.4 4.6 3.7 0.9 2.2 Acquisition of employee trust shares 1.1 1.1 Share option expense 2.8 2.8 Dividends paid 16.6 0.3 16.9 At 31 December 2010 54.8 0.1 132.8 0.6 17.6 248.7 9.6 197.4 2009 Capital Cash flow NonIssued redemption Other hedging Translation Retained controlling Total capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interests equity m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2009 54.8 0.1 132.8 8.0 26.3 219.7 7.0 167.1 Profit for the year 11.8 1.7 13.5 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 7.0 13.3 4.4 0.5 2.4 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 2.9 2.9 Share option expense 2.5 2.5 Dividends paid 15.9 0.8 16.7 At 31 December 2009 54.8 0.1 132.8 1.0 13.0 219.6 7.4 161.1 74 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Note m m Operating activities Profit for the year from continuing operations 42.5 20.2 Adjustments for: Income tax expense 19.1 12.1 Net finance expense 4 10.4 10.0 Intangible amortisation 3,9 3.0 3.1 Major restructuring costs 2 8.9 Exceptional acquisition fees 2 1.9 Depreciation 3,8 20.4 20.7 Share option expense 18 2.8 2.4 Impairments to plant and equipment 3,8 1.5 1.0 Other movements 0.9 0.8 Increase decrease in inventories 5.5 11.3 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 3.9 5.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 4.3 14.2 Major restructuring costs paid 1.3 3.7 Exceptional acquisition fees paid 1.9 Employee trust shares 1.1 Additional pension contributions 10.1 7.1 Other provisions utilised in the year 0.5 Cash inflow from operating activities of continuing operations 80.7 70.6 Income tax paid in respect of continuing operations 16.3 12.1 Net cash inflow from operating activities of continuing operations 64.4 58.5 Net cash outflow from operating activities of discontinued operations 3.0 Net cash inflow from operating activities 64.4 55.5 Investing activities Interest received 0.2 0.1 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 20.1 11.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.3 0.2 Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired 23 12.0 2.9 Proceeds from sale of businesses 24 10.9 56.6 Income tax paid on sale of businesses 3.2 3.5 Net cash outflow inflow from investing activities of continuing operations 22.9 39.5 Net cash outflow from investing activities of discontinued operations 0.2 Net cash outflow inflow from investing activities 22.9 39.3 Financing activities Interest paid 8.2 6.9 Dividends paid to equity holders 16.6 15.9 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 0.3 0.8 Realised losses on hedges of net investments 2.0 Proceeds from repayments of short-term loans 0.2 5.3 Repayment of long-term loans 117.2 214.1 Proceeds from long-term loans 104.3 161.8 Net cash outflow from financing activities of continuing operations 37.8 83.2 Net cash outflow from financing activities of discontinued operations Net cash outflow from financing activities 37.8 83.2 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 21 3.7 11.6 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 32.0 21.3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3.7 11.6 Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents 4.3 0.9 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,12 40.0 32.0 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 adopted IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 107 to 110.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and retirement benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Revised : Employee benefits.
The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
The following standards were adopted by the Group during the year: IFRS 3 Revised : Business combinations IFRS 3 The principal changes of the revised standard were to the treatment of contingent consideration and transaction costs and have been applied prospectively.
Directly attributable acquisition costs are to be expensed rather than included as part of the purchase price and contingent consideration is to be accounted for at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes in the fair value being recognised in the income statement.
The impact on the Group is shown in note 23.
Amendment to IAS 27 2008 : Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements This addresses the accounting for changes in ownership interests in a subsidiary and has not had a significant impact upon the Group.
During 2009 the Group applied the principals of IAS 27 2008 in accounting for the acquisition of the noncontrolling interest in FractureCode Corporation ApS see note 23.
The following accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB or IFRIC, have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Amendment to IAS 7: Classification of expenditures on unrecognised assets Amendment to IAS 17: Classification of leases of land and buildings Amendment to IAS 32: Financial instruments Amendment to IAS 36: Impairment of assets Amendment to IAS 38: Intangible assets, fair value of intangible asset acquired in a business combination Amendment to IAS 39: Financial instruments: recognition and measurement Eligible hedged items Amendment to IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations IFRIC 17: Distribution of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18: Transfers of assets from customers The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group.
The Group does not currently believe the adoptions of these standards or interpretations would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group: Amendment to IAS 24: Related party disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 IFRIC 19: Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 All other standards and interpretations recently adopted by the EU not discussed above did not have or are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
For the purposes of these financial statements Filtrona or the Group means Filtrona plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Directors Report on page 49.
76 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Accounting Policies continued b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Filtrona.
Control exists when Filtrona has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the financial statements.
c Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling functional currency of the parent company.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting criteria apply see policy for derivatives.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening balances of overseas entities are taken to reserves, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
d Financial instruments In accordance with IAS 39: Financial instruments: recognition and measurement IAS 39, derivatives are measured initially at fair value.
The subsequent measurement depends on the classification of the derivative.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting relationship.
See note 15 for separate disclosure of hedge types.
i Fair value hedges Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised in the income statement.
ii Cash flow hedges Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge the change in fair value is recognised in equity to the extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Where the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial carrying value of the asset.
iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously revalued properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com f Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight line basis at the following annual rates: Freehold land Not depreciated Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 720% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 1033% The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
g Leases Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
h Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Since 1 January 2010 the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement.
ii Research and development Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised if the new product is technically and commercially feasible.
All other development costs are recognised in the income statement and expensed as incurred.
iii Other intangible assets An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets principally relate to customer relationships which were valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates and developed technology which was valued using an income approach.
The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
i Impairment All assets, except intangible assets, deferred tax assets and inventories, are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually.
If an indication of impairment exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement.
Value in use is estimated based on future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and finished goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form an integral part of Filtronas cash management and are included as part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
l Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to fair value at inception and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
m Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables carrying value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows less impairment losses.
78 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Accounting Policies continued n Trade and other payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
o Catalogue costs The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is received to those goods.
p Income tax Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
q Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due.
r Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
s Segment reporting A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Operating Committee in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance.
t Pensions i Defined contribution schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit schemes The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Filtronas obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments.
The expected increase in the present value of scheme liabilities is included within finance expense and the expected return on scheme assets is included within finance income.
u Share-based payments Filtrona operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans.
A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of option awards using the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models as appropriate with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and vesting date of the options.
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of options that fail to vest because market-based conditions are not met.
v One-off items in the consolidated income statement The costs below are separately identified by virtue of their size and incidence.
They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and performance.
These costs exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets which are also presented separately in the income statement.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com v One-off items in the consolidated income statement continued i Exceptional acquisition fees In 2009, Filtrona withdrew from significant potential acquisitions at an advanced stage and had to expense 1.9m of professional adviser fees which would otherwise have been treated as part of the consideration for the acquisition.
ii Major restructuring costs The major restructuring of Filtronas operations in 2009 gave rise to considerable incremental one-off costs.
The most significant component of these restructuring costs was redundancy payments.
Filtrona views significant restructuring costs as an expense associated with investment in the future performance of the business and not part of the trading performance.
w Investment in own shares The shares held in the Filtrona Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans are treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury shares is also deducted from retained earnings.
x Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made of the outflow of resources that will be required to settle the obligation.
The outflow is the present value of managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
y Net debt Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
z Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company final dividend or paid interim dividend.
aa Discontinued operations In 2009 Filtrona disposed of Filtrona Extrusion and this is classified as a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations on the basis that it represented a separate major line of business.
The profit after tax of Filtrona Extrusion, including loss on disposal, is disclosed as a single line item in the income statement and similarly the cash flows are also disclosed as a single line item in each of the categories in the statement of cash flows.
80 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The Directors believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Filtronas performance and financial position.
i Pensions Filtrona accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 Revised.
The application of IAS 19 Revised requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used see note 18 and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes.
In consultation with Filtronas actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects Filtronas circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
ii Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
iii Taxation Accruals for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
iv Provisions Filtronas provisions are managements best estimate of exposure, in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, based on currently available information.
By their nature these provisions are judgemental.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
Risk management Filtronas activities expose the business to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for Filtronas system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Filtrona has a centralised treasury department to manage funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Treasury policies are approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of derivatives that may be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash.
Filtrona uses derivatives only to manage currency and interest rate risk arising from underlying business activities.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
The treasury department is subject to periodic independent reviews by the internal audit department.
Underlying policy assumptions and activities are reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination of geographic presence, expertise and suitable credit rating.
The following describes Filtronas financial risk exposure and management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
i Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial asset or liability fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Filtrona has no significant individual concentrations of credit risk.
The following is an overview of how Filtrona manages its credit risk exposures.
Trade and other receivables Filtronas exposure to credit risk is driven by the profile of its customers.
This is influenced by the demographics of the customer base, including the industry and country in which customers operate, which is wide and diverse.
Filtrona monitors significant customers credit limits and there is an allowance for impairment that represents the estimate of potential losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
The components of this allowance are a specific allowance for individual losses and a collective allowance for losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective allowance is determined based on historical experience.
Trade and other receivables are generally due from customers who are unlikely to seek credit ratings as part of their normal course of business.
The following table provides information on the trade and other receivables credit risk exposure.
2010 2009 m m Not impaired or past due: New customers less than one year 5.0 2.4 Existing customers more than one year with no defaults in the past 44.8 45.6 Past due not impaired 15.5 10.3 Impaired 2.4 4.7 Gross trade and other receivables 67.7 63.0 Impairment 2.4 4.0 65.3 59.0 Trade and other receivables carried at 76.0m 2009: 72.4m include prepayments and accrued income of 4.7m 2009: 5.1m which are not financial assets.
Therefore, these amounts are excluded from the above analysis.
Trade and other receivables also include deferred consideration of 6.0m 2009: 8.3m due from the Itavema Group for the purchase of the Globalpack business.
This amount is also excluded as it is included in the credit ratings analysis below.
Occasionally disputes arise that result in accounts becoming past due.
These are generally recovered in due course and the impairment allowance reflects managements best estimate of recovery.
During the year net impairment losses on trade and other receivables of 0.1m 2009: 0.3m have been recognised within net operating expense and 1.5m 2009: nil of the impairment provision has been utilised.
Derivative assets Credit risk with respect to derivatives is controlled by limiting transactions to major banking counterparties where internationally agreed standard form documentation exists.
The credit ratings of these counterparties are monitored.
82 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Notes continued 1.
Risk management continued Cash and cash equivalents Credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents is monitored daily, on a counterparty by counterparty basis.
The credit limits imposed specify the maximum amount of cash which can be invested in, or with, any single counterparty.
These limits are determined by geographic presence, expertise and credit rating.
Filtrona monitors the credit ratings of counterparties.
The following credit risk table provides information regarding the credit risk exposure of Filtrona by classifying deferred consideration, derivative assets and cash and cash equivalents according to credit ratings of the counterparties.
AAA is the highest possible rating and all of the assets are neither impaired nor past due.
2010 AAA AA A BBB Not rated Total m m m m m m Deferred consideration 6.0 6.0 Derivative assets 0.4 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 10.4 24.0 1.0 3.7 40.0 0.9 16.8 24.0 1.0 3.7 46.4 2009 AAA AA A BBB Not rated Total m m m m m m Deferred consideration 8.3 8.3 Derivative assets 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1.8 11.6 16.3 0.8 1.5 32.0 1.8 20.5 16.3 0.8 1.5 40.9 Filtronas maximum credit risk exposure is 111.7m 2009: 99.9m and no collateral is held against this amount 2009: nil.
ii Market price risk Market price risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect income or the value of financial assets and liabilities.
Filtrona has produced a sensitivity analysis that shows the estimated change to the income statement and equity of a 1%, 5% or 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all other currencies or an increase or decrease of 50 basis points bp, 100bp and 200bp in market interest rates.
The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates and actual results in the future may materially differ.
Filtrona is exposed to two types of market price risk: currency risk and interest rate risk.
a Currency risk Filtrona publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling but conducts business in several foreign currencies.
Therefore it is subject to currency risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the translation of results and underlying net assets of its operations and their transaction costs.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The majority of Filtronas net assets are in currencies other than sterling.
The Companys normal policy is to limit the translation exposure and the resulting impact on shareholders funds by borrowing in those currencies in which the Group has significant net assets.
At 31 December 2010, Filtronas euro denominated assets were 47% hedged by its euro denominated borrowings 2009: 100%, whilst its US dollar denominated assets were approximately 88% 2009: 68% hedged by the remaining US dollar denominated borrowings.
Transaction exposure hedging The majority of Filtronas transactions are carried out in the functional currencies of its operations and so transaction exposure is limited.
However, where they do occur, Filtrona uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge its exposure to movements in exchange rates on its highly probable forecast foreign currency sales and purchases over a period of up to 12 months.
Filtrona does not formally define the proportion of highly probable forecast sales and purchases to hedge, but agrees an appropriate percentage on an individual basis with each business by reference to the Groups risk management policies and prevailing market conditions.
The Group documents currency derivatives used to hedge its forecast transactions as cash flow hedges.
To the extent that cash flow hedges are effective, gains and losses are deferred in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point the gains and losses are recycled either to the income statement or to the non-financial asset acquired.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
Risk management continued The following table shows Filtronas sensitivity to a 1%, 5% and 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all currencies.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year all currencies average rates have been increased or decreased by 1%, 5% or 10%.
The translational effect on equity is limited as most US dollar and some euro exposure is hedged.
Accordingly the effect on equity is calculated by increasing or decreasing the closing rate of all currencies with an adjustment for the movement in currency hedges.
It is assumed that all net investment and cash flow hedges will be 100% effective.
2010 Weakening in sterling Strengthening in sterling 10% 5% 1% 1% 5% 10% m m m m m m Impact on the income statement gain loss 5.1 2.4 0.5 0.5 2.2 4.2 Impact on equity gain loss 17.5 8.3 1.6 1.6 7.5 14.3 2009 Weakening in sterling Strengthening in sterling 10% 5% 1% 1% 5% 10% m m m m m m Impact on the income statement gain loss 3.9 1.8 0.4 0.3 1.7 3.2 Impact on equity gain loss 12.9 6.1 1.2 1.2 5.5 10.6 b Interest rate risk Filtronas strategy is to ensure with a reasonable degree of certainty that at least 50% of the overall net finance expense is protected against material adverse movements in interest rates using fixed interest rate debt, interest rate swaps and caps.
The following table shows Filtronas sensitivity to a 50bp, 100bp and 200bp decrease or increase in sterling, US dollar and euro interest rates.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year the interest rates on all external floating rate interest bearing loans and borrowings have been increased or decreased by 50bp, 100bp or 200bp and the resulting increase or decrease in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of Filtronas interest rate derivatives.
The effect on equity includes the above impact on the income statement and the impact of a 50bp, 100bp or 200bp decrease or increase in interest rates on the market values of Filtronas interest rate derivatives.
2010 Decrease in interest rates Increase in interest rates 200bp 100bp 50bp 50bp 100bp 200bp m m m m m m Impact on the income statement gain loss 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 Impact on equity gain loss 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 2009 Decrease in interest rates Increase in interest rates 200bp 100bp 50bp 50bp 100bp 200bp m m m m m m Impact on the income statement gain loss 1.2 0.6 0.3 0.3 0.6 1.2 Impact on equity loss gain 1.3 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.7 1.4 See note 14 for interest rate disclosure on loans and borrowings.
iii Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Filtrona, although solvent, will encounter difficulties in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
On 29 April 2010, Filtrona completed the issue of US$160m US Private Placement Loan Notes.
The two series of Notes of US$80m each pay interest at 5.37% and 5.91% per annum respectively.
Fees of 1.5m paid in respect of these facilities have been capitalised and are being expensed in the income statement over the expected life of the facilities in accordance with the effective interest method.
Part of the proceeds were used to repay the US$35.9m term loan, originally borrowed in April 2009, 14.7m of the 84.7m term loan and the Groups drawings on its US$ revolving credit facility.
During October 2010 the Group repaid a further 35.0m of the remaining term loan from surplus cash funds.
On 16 April 2009 Filtrona signed an agreement with a syndicate of relationship banks to provide banking facilities until April 2012.
Fees of 4.3m paid in respect of these facilities have been capitalised and are being expensed in the income statement over the expected life of the facilities in accordance with the effective interest method.
At 31 December 2010, fees of 0.2m remain to be expensed in 2011.
84 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Notes continued 1.
Risk management continued Filtronas objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility.
Filtrona is mostly funded by two series of US$80m Loan Notes from various financial institutions, a syndicated three-year 35.0m term loan and a syndicated US$143.7m revolving credit facility from its bankers.
The two series of Loan Notes of US$80m have maturities of seven and ten years.
Two loan repayments of 8.0m each are due in April 2011 and October 2011 with the balance of the bank loans and the revolving credit facility maturing in April 2012.
At 31 December 2010 the available bank and non-bank facilities totalled 223.4m 2009: 186.5m of which 131.8m 2009: 141.7m was drawn down.
In addition, uncommitted and overdraft facilities are maintained to provide short-term flexibility.
Amounts drawn by Filtrona on its committed facilities are subject to standard banking covenants.
Filtronas available undrawn committed facilities at 31 December were: 2010 2009 m m Expiring after one but within two years 91.6 18.6 Expiring after two years 26.2 91.6 44.8 Any loans drawn on these facilities would bear interest at floating rates with reference to LIBOR for the currency and period of the loan.
The maturity of Filtronas financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments, is analysed below.
All trade and other payables are due to be settled in less than six months.
Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out Filtronas accounting categories and fair value for each class of financial asset and liability.
2010 2009 Total Total Loans and Amortised carrying and Loans and Amortised carrying and Fair value receivables cost fair value Fair value receivables cost fair value m m m m m m m m Trade and other receivables 71.3 71.3 67.3 67.3 Derivative assets 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 40.0 40.0 32.0 32.0 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 130.8 130.8 139.1 139.1 Derivative liabilities 2.5 2.5 3.1 3.1 Trade and other payables 37.1 37.1 34.1 34.1 2.1 111.3 167.9 58.7 2.5 99.3 173.2 76.4 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
Risk management continued Fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps have been calculated at year end forward exchange rates compared to contracted rates.
Fair values of interest rate swaps have been calculated by discounting cash flows at forward rates.
Included within interest bearing loans and borrowings are $160m US Private Placement Loan Notes.
The Loan Notes are held at amortised cost with a carrying value of 100.6m 2009: nil.
The Group estimates that the total fair value of the Loan Notes is 108.1m 2009: nil.
All other financial assets, classified as loans and receivables, and trade and other payables, classified as amortised cost, are held at amortised cost and have short terms to maturity.
For this reason, their carrying amounts at the reporting date approximate the fair values.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings incur interest at floating rates and as a result their carrying amounts also approximate fair values at the reporting date.
The fair values of the derivative assets and liabilities fall within level 1 in the fair value hierarchy as they have been calculated using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
iv Capital structure Filtrona defines its capital structure as its equity and non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings and aims to manage this to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
Filtrona sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk.
Filtrona manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, Filtrona may return capital to shareholders, through dividends and share buy backs, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Filtrona monitors its capital structure on the basis of the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment, share option expense, intangible amortisation, major restructuring costs and exceptional acquisition fees.
Net debt is adjusted to exclude prepaid facility fees.
During 2010, Filtronas strategy, which was unchanged from 2009, was to maintain the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio in the range 1.0 to 2.5.
The net debt-to-EBITDA ratios at 31 December were: 2010 2009 Note m m Net debt excluding prepaid facility fees 21 92.3 109.7 Operating profit before intangible amortisation, major restructuring costs and exceptional acquisition fees 75.0 56.2 Plus depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment 3 21.9 21.7 Plus share option expense 18 2.8 2.4 EBITDA 99.7 80.3 Net debt-to-EBITDA ratio 0.93 1.37 2.
Segment analysis In accordance with IFRS 8, Filtrona has determined its operating segments based upon the information reported to the Group Operating Committee.
These segments are as follows: Protection & Finishing Products is a global market leading provider of product protection and finishing products, manufacturing and distributing plastic injection moulded, dip moulded, adhesive-coated foam and metal products.
41 operating units in 14 countries serving a very broad base of over 85,000 customers with a rapid supply of products for protection and finishing applications in industries such as hydraulics, pneumatics, oil and gas, electrical controls, point of purchase and tubular metal products.
Porous Technologies is the leading global technology developer and manufacturer of custom bonded fibre and hydrophilic foam components.
Its components handle fluid and vapour and deliver high value and precision performance to many of the most well-known consumer, industrial and medical brand owners in the world.
The components are used in a wide range of product applications including medical diagnostics and wound care, inkjet printer cartridges, writing instruments and air fresheners.
Coated & Security Products is the global market leading producer of high quality self-adhesive tear tape and a growing supplier of labels, products and technologies for brand protection, document authentication, personal identification and track and trace.
Customers in over 100 countries are served from facilities operating in six countries.
The division includes plastic profile extrusion activities in The Netherlands.
Filter Products is the only global independent cigarette filter supplier.
The 10 worldwide locations, including a UK-based research facility and three regional development centres provide a flexible infrastructure strategically positioned to serve the cigarette industry.
The division supplies a wide range of value adding high quality innovative filters from monoacetate to multi-segment speciality filters with sophisticated adsorbent materials.
86 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Notes continued 2.
Segment analysis continued 2010 Protection Coated & & Finishing Porous Security Filter Central Continuing Discontinued 1 Products Technologies Products Products Eliminations Services operations operations Total m m m m m m m m m External revenue 129.1 67.9 91.9 200.7 489.6 489.6 Intersegment revenue 6.8 6.8 Total revenue 129.1 74.7 91.9 200.7 6.8 489.6 489.6 Operating profit loss before intangible amortisation 28.8 17.7 14.7 23.7 9.9 75.0 75.0 Intangible amortisation 1.9 0.9 0.1 0.1 3.0 3.0 Operating profit loss 26.9 16.8 14.6 23.6 9.9 72.0 72.0 Segment assets 77.7 51.1 56.2 99.1 7.1 291.2 291.2 Intangible assets 70.1 19.2 18.0 107.3 107.3 Unallocated items 46.0 46.0 46.0 Total assets 147.8 70.3 74.2 99.1 53.1 444.5 444.5 Segment liabilities 18.3 7.0 8.2 22.9 8.6 65.0 2.7 67.7 Unallocated items 179.4 179.4 179.4 Total liabilities 18.3 7.0 8.2 22.9 188.0 244.4 2.7 247.1 Other segment items Capital expenditure 6.8 3.8 2.1 7.4 20.1 20.1 Impairment to property, plant and equipment 1.5 1.5 1.5 Depreciation 5.3 3.0 4.7 7.3 0.1 20.4 20.4 Average number of employees 800 455 577 1,355 26 3,213 3,213 1 Central Services includes group finance, tax, treasury, legal, internal audit, human resources, information technology, corporate development and other services provided centrally to support the operating segments Continuing operations net finance expense of 10.4m 2009: 10.0m and income tax expense of 19.1m 2009: 12.1m cannot be meaningfully allocated by segment.
The majority of unallocated assets relate to derivative assets, income tax receivable and cash and cash equivalents.
The majority of unallocated liabilities relate to interest bearing loans and borrowings, derivative liabilities, retirement benefit obligations, deferred tax liabilities and income tax payable.
In 2010 no customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue.
In 2009 45.1m was derived from a single external customer which was attributable to the Coated & Security Products and Filter Products operating segments.
Revenue in the UK is 44.7m 2009: 44.9m with revenue in the US of 113.7m 2009: 96.0m being the Groups other significant geographical market.
Non-current assets in the UK total 58.9m 2009: 48.9m with other significant locations being the US and The Netherlands with non-current assets of 92.6m and 37.0m 2009: 91.1m and 39.7m respectively.
Included within revenue is the net change in the fair value of forward exchange cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement of nil 2009: 7.0m.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
Segment analysis continued 2009 Protection Coated & & Finishing Porous Security Filter Central Continuing Discontinued Discontinued 1 Products Technologies Products Products Eliminations Services operations operations eliminations Total m m m m m m m m m m External revenue 95.2 58.5 87.3 202.9 443.9 22.8 466.7 Intersegment revenue 0.1 7.5 7.5 0.1 0.1 Total revenue 95.3 66.0 87.3 202.9 7.5 444.0 22.8 0.1 466.7 Operating profit loss before intangible amortisation, major restructuring costs and exceptional acquisition fees 15.9 14.5 12.2 22.1 8.5 56.2 0.9 57.1 Intangible amortisation 1.9 0.8 0.2 0.2 3.1 3.1 Major restructuring costs 1.3 0.8 6.8 8.9 8.9 Exceptional acquisition fees 1.9 1.9 1.9 Operating profit loss 12.7 13.7 11.2 15.1 10.4 42.3 0.9 43.2 Segment assets 67.7 47.7 55.5 96.7 10.4 278.0 278.0 Intangible assets 63.4 19.8 14.8 0.1 98.1 98.1 Unallocated items 37.1 37.1 37.1 Total assets 131.1 67.5 70.3 96.8 47.5 413.2 413.2 Segment liabilities 11.8 6.3 8.9 25.6 6.0 58.6 3.3 61.9 Unallocated items 190.2 190.2 190.2 Total liabilities 11.8 6.3 8.9 25.6 196.2 248.8 3.3 252.1 Other segment items Capital expenditure 2.2 2.5 1.7 4.6 11.0 0.2 11.2 Impairment to property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.7 1.0 1.0 Depreciation 5.7 2.9 4.7 7.2 0.2 20.7 0.9 21.6 Average number of employees 726 446 553 1,544 29 3,298 140 3,438 1 Central Services includes group finance, tax, treasury, legal, internal audit, human resources, information technology, corporate development and other services provided centrally to support the operating segments 3.
Net operating expense 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 3.3 4.1 Raw materials and consumables 209.4 185.6 Personnel expense note 6 113.0 105.4 Depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment 21.9 21.7 Amortisation and other amounts written off intangible assets 3.0 3.1 Major restructuring costs 8.9 Exceptional acquisition fees 1.9 Hire of plant and machinery rentals payable under operating leases 0.5 0.6 Other operating expenses 73.1 70.4 Net operating expense 417.6 401.7 Income of nil 2009: 0.1m was recognised in operating expense during the year in respect of ineffective cash flow hedges.
Filtronas hedges of net investments were entirely effective in 2010 and 2009, as defined by IAS 39, and therefore no hedge ineffectiveness has been recognised in net operating expense in 2010 2009: nil.
88 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Notes continued 3.
Net operating expense continued Auditors remuneration 2010 2009 Note m m Audit of these financial statements 0.2 0.2 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6 Total audit fees 0.8 0.8 Other services pursuant to such legislation i, v 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to tax ii 0.3 0.3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions iii 0.7 Total non-audit fees iv 0.4 1.1 Total fees 1.2 1.9 Notes i Fees for other services pursuant to such legislation related principally to the review of the half year financial statements ii Other services relating to tax are fees paid for tax compliance services and tax advice iii The Company believes that, given their detailed knowledge of Filtronas operations, its structure and accounting policies and the importance of carrying out detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for certain audit-related work to be carried out by the Companys auditor rather than another firm of accountants.
The Audit Committee, which consists of independent Non-executive Directors, reviews and approves the level and nature of non-audit work which the auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work, thus ensuring that the auditors objectivity and independence is not compromised iv 0.1m 2009: 0.8m of the total non-audit fees were charged in the UK v Fees of 22,182 2009: 21,725 were paid in relation to the audit of the Filtrona pension schemes 4.
Net finance expense 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m Finance income Bank deposits 0.1 0.1 Unwind of discount on Globalpack deferred consideration 0.6 0.6 Other finance income 0.3 Expected return on pension scheme assets note 18 11.3 8.3 12.0 9.3 Finance expense Interest on loans and overdrafts 9.2 7.3 Amortisation of bank facility fees 2.5 1.7 Other finance expense 0.1 Interest on pension scheme liabilities note 18 10.7 10.2 22.4 19.3 Net finance expense 10.4 10.0 5.
Income tax expense 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m Amounts charged credited in the consolidated income statement Current tax 20.4 16.2 Prior years tax 3.0 3.0 Double tax relief 0.5 1.7 Deferred tax note 16 2.2 0.6 Income tax expense 19.1 12.1 Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Deferred tax credit expense on actuarial movements on defined benefit pension schemes 1.3 2.0 Income tax charge credit on effective net investment hedges 1.0 2.2 Income tax credit 0.3 0.2 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
Income tax expense continued Factors affecting income tax expense for the year Filtrona operates in many countries and is subject to income tax in many different jurisdictions.
Filtrona calculates its average expected tax rate as a weighted average of the national corporate income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
2010 2009 Continuing operations m m Profit before income tax 61.6 32.3 Tax at weighted average 2010: 30.4%: 2009: 32.8% 18.7 10.6 Effects of: Other permanent disallowables 0.9 0.9 Overseas state and local tax 1.3 0.4 Unrelieved tax losses 0.7 1.9 Prior year adjustments 3.0 3.0 Exceptional acquisition fees 0.5 Other items 0.5 0.8 Income tax expense 19.1 12.1 Income tax expense in the UK is 2.6m 2009: 1.7m.
The UK corporate tax rate is 28% but a reduction in the rate to 27% with effect from 1 April 2011 was enacted during the year.
The UK government has announced its intention to further reduce the rate to 24% by April 2014.
Personnel expense 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m Wages and salaries 95.7 88.9 Social security expense 10.9 10.3 Pension expense note 18 3.6 3.8 Share option expense note 18 2.8 2.4 113.0 105.4 The Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 51 to 61 sets out information on Directors remuneration.
Key management remuneration 2010 2009 m m Salary 2.0 1.9 Bonus 1.0 0.4 Benefits 0.5 0.5 3.5 2.8 Filtrona considers key management personnel to be the members of the Group Operating Committee.
The amounts disclosed are on the same basis as those used to determine the relevant amounts disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
90 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Notes continued 7.
Earnings per share 2010 2009 m m Continuing operations Earnings attributable to equity holders of Filtrona plc 40.9 18.5 Adjustments Intangible amortisation 3.0 3.1 Major restructuring costs 8.9 Exceptional acquisition fees 1.9 3.0 13.9 Tax relief on adjustments 0.9 2.2 Adjusted earnings 43.0 30.2 Discontinued operations Earnings attributable to equity holders of Filtrona plc 6.8 6.7 Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue million 204.9 204.2 Dilutive effect of employee share option plans million 4.2 2.5 Diluted weighted average ordinary shares million 209.1 206.7 Continuing operations Basic earnings per share 20.0p 9.1p Adjustment 1.0p 5.7p Adjusted earnings per share 21.0p 14.8p Diluted basic earnings per share 19.6p 9.0p Diluted adjusted earnings per share 20.6p 14.6p Discontinued operations Basic earnings per share 3.3p 3.3 p Diluted basic earnings per share 3.3p 3.3 p As noted on page 11 adjusted earnings per share is provided to reflect the underlying earnings performance of Filtrona.
The basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes shares held in treasury and shares held by an employee benefit trust.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
Property, plant and equipment 2010 Fixtures, Land and Plant and fittings and buildings machinery equipment Total m m m m Cost Beginning of year 67.7 256.0 41.3 365.0 Acquisitions 1.3 0.2 1.5 Additions 5.4 11.3 3.4 20.1 Disposals 1.2 1.7 1.9 4.8 Currency translation 0.5 3.4 0.7 4.6 End of year 72.4 270.3 43.7 386.4 Depreciation Beginning of year 18.7 160.6 31.8 211.1 Expense in year 2.1 15.4 2.9 20.4 Disposals 1.0 1.7 1.9 4.6 Impairments 1.5 1.5 Currency translation 1.4 0.5 1.9 End of year 19.8 177.2 33.3 230.3 Net book value at end of year 52.6 93.1 10.4 156.1 2009 Fixtures, Land and Plant and fittings and buildings machinery equipment Total m m m m Cost Beginning of year 87.7 321.2 50.0 458.9 Additions 1.3 8.7 1.2 11.2 Divestment of Filtrona Extrusion 17.6 49.8 5.6 73.0 Disposals 0.2 7.5 1.9 9.6 Reclassification 3.0 3.0 Currency translation 6.5 13.6 2.4 22.5 End of year 67.7 256.0 41.3 365.0 Depreciation Beginning of year 19.3 192.6 36.5 248.4 Expense in year 2.3 16.2 3.1 21.6 Divestment of Filtrona Extrusion 3.9 32.7 4.8 41.4 Disposals 0.1 7.3 1.7 9.1 Impairments 1.0 3.0 4.0 Reclassification 1.5 1.8 0.3 Currency translation 1.4 9.4 1.6 12.4 End of year 18.7 160.6 31.8 211.1 Net book value at end of year 49.0 95.4 9.5 153.9 Net book value at beginning of year 68.4 128.6 13.5 210.5 The impairments relate to plant and machinery and land and buildings that have been assessed as non-recoverable through on-going use in the Group and are expected to have no value on disposal.
In 2009, impairments include 3.0m expensed against major restructuring costs in the income statement.
Included within land and buildings and plant and machinery are assets in the course of construction of 3.5m 2009: 0.6m which were not depreciated during the year.
92 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Notes continued 9.
Intangible assets 2010 2009 m m Goodwill Beginning of year 53.0 78.9 Acquisitions note 23 5.8 Divestment of Filtrona Extrusion note 24 20.9 Currency translation 0.1 5.0 End of year 58.9 53.0 Customer relationships Cost Beginning of year 49.2 54.3 Acquisitions note 23 5.9 Currency translation 0.3 5.1 End of year 54.8 49.2 Amortisation Beginning of year 9.3 7.5 Expense in year 2.4 2.5 Currency translation 0.7 End of year 11.7 9.3 Net book value at end of year 43.1 39.9 Net book value at beginning of year 39.9 46.8 Other Cost Beginning of year 5.9 6.6 Acquisitions note 23 0.5 Currency translation 0.2 0.7 End of year 6.6 5.9 Amortisation Beginning of year 0.7 0.1 Expense in year 0.6 0.6 Currency translation End of year 1.3 0.7 Net book value at end of year 5.3 5.2 Net book value at beginning of year 5.2 6.5 Total net book value of intangible assets at end of year 107.3 98.1 Other intangible assets principally comprise developed technology acquired with Lendell.
The weighted average useful economic life of customer relationships and other intangible assets at the end of the year was 21.8 years and 11.7 years 2009: 22.9 years and 12.1 years respectively.
Filtrona tests intangible assets annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment.
A discounted cash flow analysis is computed to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets for each operating segment or business as appropriate.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units, being the operating segments, as follows: Goodwill 2010 2009 Operating segment m m Protection & Finishing Products 31.8 27.3 Porous Technologies 11.0 11.0 Coated & Security Products 16.1 14.7 58.9 53.0 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
Intangible assets continued Intangible assets, apart from goodwill, are allocated to the businesses to which they relate as shown below: Customer relationships and other intangible assets 2010 2009 Business Operating segment m m Moss and Skiffy Protection & Finishing Products 19.3 21.0 Duraco Protection & Finishing Products 14.5 15.0 Lendell Porous Technologies 8.2 8.8 Multiple businesses Multiple segments 6.4 0.3 48.4 45.1 The tests are based on the following assumptions: Cash flows for the next two years are based upon the Groups annual budget Cash flows beyond the budget period are based on year twos budget cash flows with growth rates specific to each business which range from nil to 3% The estimated cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discounted rate based upon Filtronas estimated weighted average cost of capital of 8.5% 2009: 9.0% adjusted for the risk applicable to each operating segment.
The pre-tax discount rates used ranged from 11.6% to 13.8% 2009: 12.3% to 14.5% Any impairments identified as a result of the analysis are expensed to the income statement.
The test is dependent on management estimates and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, and the discount rate applied to these cash flows.
The Group performed various sensitivity analyses which involved reducing future cash flows by up to 25%, reducing terminal growth rates by up to 8 percentage points or increasing pre-tax discount rates by up to 100bp.
The results of these analyses showed that, despite significantly lower post tax operating cash flows or increased pre-tax discount rates, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets continued to be supported.
Inventories 2010 2009 m m Raw materials and consumables 23.9 20.7 Work-in-progress 2.8 1.7 Finished goods and goods held for resale 32.4 29.3 59.1 51.7 Inventories held at net realisable value and amounts recognised as income from the reversal of impairments were not significant.
Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets Other receivables 2.9 5.3 Current assets Trade receivables 58.6 53.0 Other receivables 9.8 9.0 Prepayments and accrued income 4.7 5.1 73.1 67.1 Total trade and other receivables 76.0 72.4 Other receivables include an amount of deferred consideration of 6.0m 2009: 8.3m due from the Itavema Group for the purchase of the Globalpack business.
