60 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Pension schemes Mark Harper is a member of the Filtrona Senior Pension Scheme FSPS which entitles him to a pension at the date of retirement based on final salary.
He accrues pension at the rate of 2.0% of final salary for each year of membership of the scheme and he contributes 9% of pensionable salary to the scheme.
Pensionable salary is base salary only.
Marks normal retirement age is 60.
In accordance with the rules of the FSPS, which are applicable to all members, early retirement can be taken from the age of 55.
Pension accrued at that date will be subject to discount factors in accordance with the rules of the FSPS.
During 2010 a number of adjustments were made to FSPS these include a reduction in accrual rate to 2% of pensionable salary for each future year of pension membership, and the introduction of a cap on future annual increases in pensionable salary equal to RPI, but subject to a maximum of 3%.
The FSPS provides the following death benefits: 1 Death-in-service before NRD Death after retirement Lump sum Four times annual salary and Guaranteed pension 5 years a refund of members contributions Spouses pension Up to 60% of members pension Up to 60% of members pension entitlement as at NRD entitlement as at NRD Dependants pension Share of spouses pension if applicable Share of spouses pension if applicable 1 NRD normal retirement date Steve Crummett receives a supplementary payment of 20% of his base salary to permit him to secure pension benefits.
Steve is a member of the Filtrona Pension Plan Defined Contribution section DC plan and he contributes 5% of his base salary up to the scheme specific cap which the Company matches.
The DC plan provides death benefits of four times annual salary.
Colin Day will receive a supplementary payment equal to 25% of annual salary to permit him to secure pension benefits.
The table below shows the accrued pension in the scheme to date in respect of Mark Harper together with the transfer value of such accrued pension.
As set out in the notes to the table, the increase in the value of the accrued pension during the year is primarily due to changes in the actuarial assumptions used to value the scheme which are applicable to all active members of the scheme.
The pension due to Mark Harper on his retirement from the Company in May 2011 will be determined in accordance with the rules of the FSPS with discount factors applied and no enhancements.
Value of net Increase in Total accrued increase in Value of accrued Value of accrued Total change in Gross increase in accrued pension pension at accrual during pension at pension at value during the accrued pension net of inflation 31 Dec 2010 the year 1 Jan 2010 31 Dec 2010 year i ii ii iii 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Mark Harper 17 17 282 296 5,120 6,336 1,170 i The accrued pension at 31 December 2010 is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on the assumption that service terminated at the year end and is therefore the deferred pension entitlement upon leaving at that time ii The value of the accrued pension is calculated on the current transfer value basis which was updated in October 2010 and is not the actual cost of providing the pension.
In line with legal advice received by the Trustees and instructions from the Company, the figures as at 31 December 2010 allow for the changes to CPI indexation applying for deferred revaluation iii The change in the value of the accrued pension during the year includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company such as changes in market conditions and changes to the basis of calculation.
It is calculated in accordance with current legislation and is after the deduction of the Directors contributions during the year
