28 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Review of Operations Filter Products How we do it The production capabilities of the division enable the business to supply over 700 product specifications to over 300 customers, including all the multi-national tobacco companies.
Customers benefit from the flexibility of Filtronas global manufacturing footprint, which enables rapid response to market changes and demand for surge volumes.
This production base is continually monitored to ensure both capability and capacity are balanced with customer needs.
Consistent high standards of quality and service support these capabilities and form the foundation for the long-term customer relationships which the division maintains.
The constant focus on cost control and production efficiency serves to further underpin the divisions competitive advantage and drive market share.
Customers can also benefit from the divisions ability to provide a wider service offering.
New business models are available, which allow The global tobacco customers to take advantage of Filtronas long experience and expertise to complement their own strengths and assets in a variety of tolling, industry is going through or outsourced management, relationship arrangements.
Our The divisions recognised ability to innovate new added value products capability and success and services is key to its continued success, as the tobacco market in innovation support to dynamics evolve.
new filter solutions has Research is carried out at the Filtrona Technology Centre FTC in the UK, to continuously develop forward looking innovations that give customers enhanced our status brands differentiation and identity.
Supporting this, development in the industry expertise is provided by three regional development centres.
These work closely with local customers to understand their specific needs and PT Sreekumar deliver solutions at the pace required by local market conditions.
Managing Director, Filtronas Scientific Services facility is one of the few independent UKAS Filter Products accredited laboratories for the testing of cigarettes and cigarette filters and provides an invaluable testing facility for both independent and multi-national customers.
By working closely alongside employees from research and development, the sales and operations teams are able to focus on customer requirements to deliver top class products and services.
How weve performed In the year the division continued to perform well under challenging conditions with continued improvements in operating margins and operating profit despite revenue being reduced by 1.1% to 200.7m 2009: 202.9m, was down 4.8% at constant exchange rates.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 7.2% to 23.7m 2009: 22.1m and was down by 1.7% at constant exchange rates.
Adjusted operating margin increased by 90 basis points to 11.8% 2009: 10.9% as a result of ongoing productivity improvements.
Cash conversion of adjusted operating profit into operating cash flow was 97%.
Total divisional volumes reduced by 2.9% to 48.7 billion filter rods, with an 11% increase in monoacetate volumes and a 10% reduction in special filters.
The special filters reduction was impacted by the closure of the Venezuelan facility in the second half of the year.
The increase in the Instrument to measure Tobacco Specific monoacetate volume was due to ongoing success with independent Nitrosamines in smoke and tobacco customers and further growth in Asia which accounted for 52% of total divisional volume 2009: 48%.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
