56 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued During the year the DASBs awarded in March 2007 were transferred to the participants, in accordance with the rules of the DASB.
As reported in the 2009 Report of the Remuneration Committee DASBs awarded in March 2008 and March 2009 were also transferred to a number of participants during March 2010.
The terms of such acceleration included that the shares which vested early under the awards net of those sold to meet tax liabilities are held subject to a risk of forfeiture until the original vesting date for the relevant award.
Such terms of forfeiture provide that in the event that the benefit of the awards would otherwise have been lost between the new vesting date and the normal vesting date in accordance with the DASB e. g. in bad leaver circumstances the appropriate number of shares will be forfeited by the executive to the Companys employee benefit trust for nil consideration.
In such clawback circumstances, the executive may also be required to pay the Company a cash sum equal in value as at the time of early vesting to the value of any shares that were sold to meet the tax liabilities arising from the early vesting of the awards.
The acceleration provided an opportunity for the taxation of the awards to fall within the 2009 10 income tax year, potentially leading to a taxation saving for the participants.
The Committee considers it appropriate to have provided the UK participants with such an opportunity, in respect of these historic bonuses.
No additional costs were incurred by the Company as a result of the acceleration.
For 2010 awards onwards, the Committee has the discretion to reduce the size of unvested DASB awards if it is found that the performance, on which the original award was determined, was materially misstated.
As noted on page 53, Mark Harper will be treated as a good leaver under the terms of the DASB and, on his departure from the Company, any forfeiture restrictions applying to his 2009 awards will fall away and the shares granted in 2010 will be transferred to him.
Executive share-based incentive plans The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that offering Executive Directors and nominated senior executives the opportunity to be awarded shares in the Company is an important part of motivating, rewarding and retaining key employees so that they may drive and participate in the future growth of the Company.
It is also of the view that the Executive Directors and nominated senior executives should be encouraged to invest directly in the Company through the purchase of shares.
The Companys DASB and LTIP are both intended to support these objectives.
The award of shares or options under the executive share-based incentive plans is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the role of the individual and other such criteria as they may determine from time to time.
The current policy is that participation in the DASB and LTIP Part B is restricted to Executive Directors and nominated senior executives.
Since 2008, Executive Directors and other nominated senior executives have not been eligible to receive further awards under LTIP Part A and participation in LTIP Part A has been limited to other designated employees.
Awards under the Companys share-based incentive plans will be satisfied using market purchases, new issue shares and or shares held in treasury.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Part B A performance share award under LTIP Part B consists of a conditional right to receive shares in the Company, subject to performance conditions, on the basis described below.
Participants make no payment for the grant and exercise of performance share awards.
Participants may receive performance share awards over shares worth up to two times their basic salary in any financial year.
A performance share award will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its award and may only be exercised to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
The awards are structured as nil cost options.
For employees based outside the US, the options remain capable of being exercised up to the sixth anniversary of grant.
For employees based in the US, once the performance conditions have been satisfied the options must be exercised within 30 days of vesting.
For awards granted prior to 2008, the extent to which performance share awards vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance over a fixed three year period relative to the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts at the start of the three year performance period.
Such performance share awards will vest in full only if the Companys TSR performance is ranked at upper quartile or above within the peer group over the performance period.
For median performance one quarter of such awards vest, rising proportionally up to full vesting thereafter.
For below median performance, no such awards will vest.
The performance condition will be tested after three years and there is no provision for retesting.
To the extent the performance condition has not been met after three years, the relevant awards will lapse.
