36 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Ongoing initiatives are designed to monitor, assess and drive Priorities goals performance.
Investigations are carried out on all circumstances that may have resulted in injury or near miss incidents.
Continued reporting Reduce the impact of carbon emissions of near miss incidents has enhanced the Companys ability to learn from and secure continuous improvement in potentially hazardous conditions and prevent their reoccurrence or environmental performance escalation into more serious incidents.
Additional reporting introduced during 2010 was a non work related injury record, which seeks to record external factors where an injury occurs outside the workplace.
An employee is required to report the incident to an occupational health How do we manage it?
representative so that the injury can be managed during working hours.
- Carbon emission targets set at each The Group-wide intranet based management reporting system operational location facilitates an extensive live programme of active monitoring that - Reduce carbon emissions, measures in detail exactly how successful the Company is in managing prevent pollution and improve the safety of its workplaces at individual site level.
The Company believes that the elevated visibility of relevant performance statistics provided by manufacturing efficiency the system maintains the fundamental focus of management on all - Implement initiatives for the efficient health & safety issues.
use of water and other natural resources and increase recycling Filtrona has established a Group Health, Safety & Environmental - Exploring the use of energy-saving Council the FHSEC which is an international group and includes senior technology in manufacturing operating management from all divisions.
The FHSECs primary task is to review progress with the implementation of HS&E policy and - Extending the span and quality of performance and set objectives and standards for the Group worldwide.
data collection The FHSEC meets bi-annually and discusses the physical, regulatory and - Develop new techniques with suppliers financial risks associated with all HS&E issues including climate change.
and customers for environmentally There is a mechanism for identifying and allocating suitable resources friendly products to specifically identified risks and reporting to the Board.
- Gaining ISO14001 accreditation The Company manages occupational health by identifying key risk activities, undertaking health assessments and, where appropriate, implementing health surveillance programmes.
The Company has achieved the Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems How did we do?
OHSAS 18001 for all of its principal manufacturing sites, excluding - Achieved the Carbon Trust standard Jarrow, where major restructuring has taken place, and the recently for all UK businesses acquired sites of BP Labels and Stera Tape which have been given, a period of two years to reach the required standard in accordance - Complied with UK Carbon Reduction with Filtrona policy.
Commitment initiatives - Reduced carbon emissions by 8% During 2010 the FHSEC implemented a safety campaign across the - All manufacturing sites recertified Group, driven by senior management, and focusing on the awareness to, and reduction of, hand injuries.
The successful campaign aimed to latest ISO14001 standard to eliminate lost time accidents resulting from hand injuries and to - Lendell, a recently acquired site, promote a focused behavioural approach to hazard reduction.
The achieved ISO14001 and ISO18001 campaign identified that employee behaviour is a major contributor to - Recycling biodegradeable processes workplace incidents and as a result the Company will be implementing further training.
Businesses undertake extensive training programmes which are How will we do it?
particularly focused on the key, or most frequent, risks in their operations.
Training in risk assessment and root-cause analysis features - Roll out Carbon Trust principles to strongly in the Companys health & safety management.
global businesses - Continue with global carbon Details of the Companys health & safety performance for 2010 and reduction initiatives throughout 2011 can be viewed on page 9 and on the Companys website www.
- Maximise the efficiency of the use of natural resources - Offset emissions when possible - Continue environmental improvement to ensure retention of accreditations - Secure accreditation for newly acquired sites
