BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Outside appointments Filtrona recognises its senior executives can benefit from serving in a personal capacity as non-executive directors of non-Filtrona group companies.
It is, at the same time, conscious of the corporate governance recommendations that executive directors should take account of the time commitment required by a non-executive position.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept up to two appropriate non-executive directorships offered by listed companies and other organisations, which provide industry experience or public service.
Such outside appointments are subject to prior Board approval, taking into account existing duties or potential conflicts of interest.
Mark Harper is a non-executive director of BBA Aviation plc and retained his fees for 2010 of 54,000.
Colin Day is a non-executive director of AMEC plc and WPP plc.
Directors shareholdings The interests both beneficial and family interests of the Directors in office at 31 December 2010, and the date of this Report, in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: At 31 Dec At 31 Dec 2010 2009 Jeff Harris 51,651 51,651 1 1 Mark Harper 384,135 176,850 Steve Crummett 53,956 11,600 Paul Drechsler 18,519 18,519 Lars Emilson 7,500 7,500 Terry Twigger 2,500 2,500 1 410 shares are held non-beneficially The Executive Directors are regarded as being interested in 1,004,490 2009: 1,405,270 ordinary shares in Filtrona plc held by the Filtrona Employee Benefit Trust EBT at 31 December 2010, as they are, together with other Filtrona employees, potential beneficiaries of the EBT.
These shares are held in order to satisfy employee entitlements relating to the Companys share plans.
As at 31 December 2010, potential and actual share issuance through employee related share plans totalled 7.2% which is well below UK institutional shareholder limits of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
By order of the Board Paul Drechsler Chairman Remuneration Committee 24 February 2011 62 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report The Filtrona Board believes that the pursuit of and adherence to best practice standards The Filtrona Board is accountable to - establishes the culture and core Filtrona all the Companys stakeholders for the Values throughout the Group standards of governance which are - provides competitive advantage across maintained across Filtronas diverse the Group, improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board and all range of international businesses.
employees, strengthening controls and processes, and enhancing the quality During the year the Company has and objectivity of decision-making and undertaken a comprehensive review risk management - underpins the shareholder value of its internal audit and risk management proposition of the Company in processes in seeking to drive continuous pursuing its strategic objectives and the management of its improvement and a number of corporate responsibilities recommendations will be implemented during 2011 During 2010, the Company has Jeff Harris Chairman - complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance - implemented new web-based compliance programmes across Filtrona confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group the Company has complied with the 2008 version of the Combined - undertaken an extensive review of its Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code, in particular with the Main Principles set out in section 1 internal audit and risk management of the Code.
processes The Company applies the Codes principles of openness, integrity and accountability through its own behaviour, corporate governance best practice and by adopting, as appropriate and proportionate for a company of the size and nature of Filtrona, recommendations of relevant professional bodies.
There are clearly defined roles and delegated authorities applying to the Board, the Executive Committee and the businesses and together with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board these are communicated across the Group as appropriate.
The implementation of a new web-based compliance system during 2010 has enhanced the Companys ability to communicate with and train all its employees on the standards of business conduct which the Board establishes.
A copy of the Groups Code of Business Ethics policy which addresses the Groups responsibilities to a range of stakeholders and for the environment can be found on the Companys website www.
Board Composition and Independence During 2010 the Filtrona Board continued to comprise of a Nonexecutive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
Balance is considered a key requirement for the composition of the Board not only in terms of numbers but also with regard to the mix of skills, experience and knowledge.
The Board is of the view that it has a highly competent Chairman and that the members of the Board in conjunction with the senior executive teams are well equipped to drive, and are capable of delivering on, the Companys strategy.
Biographical details of all the current directors are set out on page 44 to 45.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and are so defined as to ensure a clear separation of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and Jon Green, Company Secretary & General Counsel and performance of Filtronas operations.
Jeff Harris, Chairman BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com In the opinion of the Board, Paul Drechsler, Lars Emilson and The Board has adopted a schedule of reserved matters which Terry Twigger are each considered to be independent of are required to be reviewed by it, including: management as detailed in the Code and there are no relationships or circumstances which would materially strategy and resources interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
annual budgets treasury policies The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors major capital and operating expenditure proposals provide an independent view in Board discussions and in the acquisitions and disposals development of the Companys strategy.
Non-executive debt facilities Directors also ensure a sound basis for good corporate key Group policies governance for the Company, challenging managements appointments to the Board performance and, in conjunction with the Executive systems of internal control Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial controls and dividend payments systems of risk management are maintained as appropriate categories of public announcements to the needs of the businesses within Filtrona.
The detailed implementation of all these matters and The Chairman and each of the other Non-executive Directors general operational matters are the responsibility of have considerable international experience at a senior level executive senior management and regular formal in the management of activities broadly similar to those management reports, including the detailed monitoring carried out by the Company and the material issues likely to of performance, are provided to the Board.
During 2010, the Board was closely engaged in the detailed The Board is content that the Non-executive Directors monitoring of performance and the actions necessary to devote sufficient time to the business of Filtrona.
maintain the profitability of the Company and remained focused on the longer-term strategic objectives which it has The letters of appointment for Non-executive Directors are defined and the appropriate management of particular risks available for review at the Companys registered office and impacting the Group.
Paul Drechsler acts as the Senior Independent Non-executive Key Activities of the Board during the year Director and can be contacted via the Companys registered office.
In that role he is available to shareholders to discuss - evaluated and approved the acquisition of Stera and develop an understanding of their issues and any Tape, a manufacturer of high quality speciality tapes concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions with the - evaluated and approved the acquisition of BP Chairman, the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or Labels, a high quality, creative, secure self-adhesive where such contact is inappropriate.
labels business The Articles of Association of the Company require one third - evaluated and approved the issue of $160m of US of the Directors to retire from office each year and for all Private Placement Loan Notes to secure additional Directors to submit themselves for re-election on a date financing and diversify away from the bank market which is no more than three years from the date of their appointment or last reappointment.
- evaluated and approved substantial investment in a new facility for MSI in Houston to assist future The Company is adopting the requirements of the new UK growth opportunities Corporate Governance Code and will be proposing the - concluded agreements with the Companys pension re-election of all Directors at this years AGM.
scheme trustees relating to deficit repayment and Following the Board performance evaluation undertaken future funding requirements during the financial year, the Board is satisfied that each of - considered key strategic opportunities and risks for the Directors being put forward for re-election, continue to the Filter Products business be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
- reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code and assessed its implications for the Board and its The Conduct of Board Matters leadership of Filtrona The Board is collectively committed to promoting the success and strategic direction of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and stewardship to the businesses and management and takes responsibility for the strategic direction of the Company by the implementation and maintenance of its core values and governance controls.
The Board manages the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, securing effective contributions from all Board members and engaging in challenging but constructive discussions on issues relevant to the strategic direction of the Group.
64 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board establishes the standards and values that govern Engagement with Management the Group and agrees the structure of the Groups internal The Board receives detailed presentations from each of the controls.
The Board looks to the Audit Committee to Managing Directors or Presidents of the divisions during the undertake the majority of the work involved in monitoring course of the year in addition to reviewing their respective and seeking assurance as to compliance with the controls strategic plans and budgets.
The Board also considers within this framework.
However, the Board as a whole reports from senior management about matters of material maintains oversight of such important matters and after each importance to the Company which arise from time to committee meeting the Chairman of the Audit Committee time.
There is a programme of meetings, both formal and reports on the matters which have been reviewed.
informal, with members of the Group Operating Committee GOC during the year and the Board has the opportunity to Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the engage with local management during site visits.
The Board Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
These derives a better understanding of the Companys operations Committees report as appropriate to the Board.
All the and business model as a result of such contact.
Committees have clearly defined terms of reference.
These are reviewed annually and are available on the Conflict of Interests website www.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where During the year there were seven scheduled Board meetings, a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly of which one was held overseas at the recently refurbished conflict, with the interests of the Company.
In addition, the Reinbek, Germany, Porous Technologies facility and one was Company has a Conflict of Interests policy governing the held at Nottingham, UK, Coated & Security Products facility.
responsibilities of Directors in such situation.
The decision In addition to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board met to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by on a number of other occasions as required and, in particular, non-conflicted directors those who have no interest in the reviewed in detail, in conjunction with outside advisers, the matter being considered and in making such a decision the further development and delivery of the Group strategy.
The Directors must act honestly and in good faith when giving Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with authorisation where they think this is appropriate, and will the Directors and the Chairman also holds periodic informal be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The discussions with the Non-executive Directors, without Company Secretary & General Counsel maintains a register any of the Executive Directors being present, to review of Directors interests so that any potential concerns are performance, discuss succession issues, and to monitor addressed before any material concerns may arise.
the course of the year, there were no material conflicts of interest impacting on the conduct of the Boards activities.
Attendance at Board meetings Information and professional development Name Attendance The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, takes responsibility for ensuring that the Chairman Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Jeff Harris 7 of 7 The agenda for each Board and Committee meeting is Chief Executive considered by the relevant Chairman and papers for each Mark Harper 7 of 7 scheduled formal Board and Committee meetings are usually provided five clear working days beforehand.
In Executive Director addition, the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Steve Crummett 7 of 7 Executive Directors to discuss current trading and financial performance and other specific issues which may arise from Non-executive Directors time to time.
Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Director 7 of 7 Lars Emilson 7 of 7 On appointment an induction programme tailored to their Terry Twigger 7 of 7 individual needs is available to Directors and designed to assist them in their understanding of Filtrona and The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary & its operations.
Throughout a Directors tenure they General Counsel, sets the programme for the Board during are encouraged to develop their knowledge of the Group the year.
At each scheduled meeting, the Board considers through meetings with senior management and site visits.
a report from the Chief Executive on health & safety Directors are also provided with updates, as appropriate, performance and current trading, a financial review from the on matters such as fiduciary duties, Companies Act Group Finance Director and other significant business issues.
requirements, share dealing restrictions and corporate Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and governance matters.
all Directors participate in determining the Groups strategy and regularly reviewing the trading and financial All Directors have access to the advice and services of the performance of the Company.
Company Secretary & General Counsel who is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are The internal procedures implemented by the Company to complied with and that applicable rules and regulations ensure the Board maintains overall control for all material are followed.
During the year under review the Company strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters Secretary & General Counsels advice was sought in relation affecting the Company are included within the internal to share dealings.
In furtherance of their duties, there are control section of this Report set out on pages 67 to 68. agreed procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional advice during the year.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Performance evaluation Insurance Continuous improvement and development of the Board In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and its Committees is key to ensuring that governance and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and structures remain in line with best practice.
Wales, the Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of those liabilities incurred as a result For 2010 the Company adopted an internal self assessment of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the evaluation process with the use of web based software Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained supplied by an external organisation.
a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated this policy will be renewed.
Neither The 2010 process was led by the Chairman, assisted by the the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover Company Secretary & General Counsel, and consisted of to the extent that the Director is proven to have acted a confidential survey in response to a variety of targeted dishonestly or fraudulently.
questions which were completed by all Directors.
Audit Committee The process was designed to address a number of key areas The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and regarding the overall performance of the Board and its transparent arrangements for considering how it should Committees but it particularly focused on the work of the apply the required financial reporting and internal control Board and its Committees in relation to risk.
The risk focused principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship approach was adopted to further develop the Boards with the Companys external auditor KPMG Audit LLP.
The processes relating to the determination of risk appetite Audit Committee supports the Board in the achievement of and risk oversight in support of the work being undertaken those objectives.
by the Company following a detailed review of its risk management processes in conjunction with an external Terry Twigger is the appointed Chairman of the Audit service provider.
Committee and the Board is satisfied that Terry has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are For the evaluation there were no separate committee Paul Drechsler and Lars Emilson.
questionnaires, but each of the Chairmen of the Board Committees separately reviewed the performance The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary of the individual Committees in discussion with the to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers that both management and The Non-executive Directors appraised the Chairmans the external auditor should attend meetings where possible performance and the Senior Independent Director discussed in order to provide the members of the Committee with the results with the Chairman.
the information they require and to answer any questions.
Accordingly, a representative of the Companys external An analysis of the feedback from the evaluation process auditor ordinarily attends all meetings of the Audit was reviewed and discussed by the Board in early 2011.
In Committee and the Group Finance Director and Group Head general, the Board noted that the process had concluded of Audit are normally invited to attend the meetings, along that the Board and each of its Committees were considered with the Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive.
to be operating effectively, with each Director contributing During the course of the year, the Audit Committee meets effectively, and that the adoption of recommendations with the external auditor and the Group Head of Audit arising from previous evaluations had been embedded without the Company management being present.
successfully and improved the conduct of Board and Committee matters.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year and maintains a formal calendar of items that are to be The process did highlight the importance of the Boards considered by the committee.
The timetable of these items engagement with management at all levels of the business is scheduled in accordance with the requirements of the to ensure the Boards understanding of the Companys annual audit cycle.
operations and knowledge of the talent pool available for Name Attendance future management succession.
As a result, further steps are to be taken to enable the Board to have greater exposure to Chairman more junior management, including those on the Companys Terry Twigger 4 of 4 graduate programme.
In addition, the Board is to receive more regular updates on the status of succession issues Non-executive Directors identified during the formal organisation and management Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Director 3 of 4 development review conducted in alternate years.
Lars Emilson 4 of 4 The feedback from the risk based evaluation is being further The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are defined considered as part of the Companys review and development in its Terms of Reference, copies of which are available at of its internal audit and risk management processes.
