ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC the Company was incorporated and registered under the laws of England and Wales on 8 December 2006.
The address of the Companys registered office and domicile is 16 St. Jamess Street, London, SW1A 1ER, United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies used in preparing these consolidated financial statements financial statements are described below and are based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU, the Listing Rules of the United Kingdoms UKs Financial Services Authority FSA, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation.
These standards are subject to interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
These consolidated financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also necessitates management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in note 2.
The financial statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 except where new policies have been applied.
New accounting policies and pronouncements and the effects of these policies have been outlined in note 3.
Where the Group has changed the presentational format of these consolidated financial statements to further improve the comparability of its results, comparative figures have been changed accordingly.
The Group has also completed the measurement period in respect of the acquisition of Central African Mining & Exploration PLC CAMEC, now known as ENRC Africa Holdings Limited, which has resulted in the restatement of the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity as detailed in note 6. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are those entities, over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities, generally accompanying, directly or indirectly, an interest of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company acquisition date and are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between subsidiaries are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
c Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interest is the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Company.
As described further in note 3, the Group has changed its accounting policy for transactions with non-controlling interests and the accounting for loss of control from 1 January 2010 when IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, became effective.
Previously transactions with non-controlling interests were treated as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Disposals therefore resulted in gains or losses in the income statement and purchases resulted in the recognition of goodwill.
d Joint ventures Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
The Group has elected to use the equity method to account for interests in jointly controlled entities, which are disclosed as joint ventures in the financial statements and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
88 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued e Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses are recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in that associate the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
f Functional and presentational currency All amounts in these financial statements are presented in millions of US$ unless otherwise stated.
The functional currency of the significant operating entities is either the Kazakhstani tenge KZT, or the Russian rouble RUB or Brazilian real BRL, whilst for the Sales and Marketing entities and significant African operations it is the US Dollar US$.
The functional currency for major entities in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
The following additional factors are considered in determining the functional currency of a foreign operation: Whether the activities of the foreign operation are carried out as an extension of the reporting entity, rather than being carried out with a significant degree of autonomy.
Whether transactions with the reporting entity are a high or a low proportion of the foreign operations activities.
Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation directly affect the cash flows of the reporting entity and are readily available for remittance to it.
Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation are sufficient to service existing and normally expected debt obligations without funds being made available by the reporting entity.
The functional currency for the Company is the US dollar US$.
The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the British pound, expressed in British pounds per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2010 0.65 0.65 Year ended 31 December 2009 0.62 0.64 The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Kazakhstani tenge, expressed in Kazakhstani tenges per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2010 147.50 147.35 Year ended 31 December 2009 148.46 147.50 The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Russian rouble, expressed in Russian roubles per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2010 32.74 32.94 Year ended 31 December 2009 33.06 31.42 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Brazilian real, expressed in Brazilian real per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2010 1.66 1.79 Year ended 31 December 2009 1.75 2.00 g Foreign currency translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
h Translation from functional to presentational currency The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the date of acquisition.
When a subsidiary is disposed of through sale, liquidation, repayment of share capital or abandonment of all, or part of, that entity, the exchange differences deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement.
i Revenue recognition A significant portion of production is sold under contracts of sale of goods.
Revenue from sales of goods is only recognised on individual shipments when persuasive evidence exists that the following criteria are satisfied: The significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer.
If it is arranged that the goods are transported to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point.
The revenue from sales of many products is subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of the quantity quality of the product.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of quantity quality of the product is recorded in revenue once they have been determined: Neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold has been retained: The amount of revenue and respective costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably: and It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group.
Revenues from sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to the stage of completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual services provided, as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
When the fair value of goods or services received in a barter transaction involving dissimilar items cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or service given up.
Revenues are shown net of VAT and discounts.
j Finance income and cost Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and gains and income on investment and trading securities.
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest expense from the unwinding of discount on provisions for asset retirement obligations and losses on the revaluation and disposal of investments designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Finance income and costs include foreign exchange gains and losses that relate mainly to loans receivable, borrowings and term deposits more than 3 months.
Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time proportion basis, using the effective interest method.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of financial expenses unless incurred on borrowings to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment in which case they are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
90 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued k Income tax The income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In that case tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Kazakhstans Excess Profits Tax, being a tax on income, forms part of the income tax expense.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year.
It is calculated on the basis of the tax laws and rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred assets to be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is disclosed in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
l Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or when declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
m Finance leases and hire purchase commitments Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease term.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The capital elements, net of finance charges, of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as current or long-term payables in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the asset.
n Operating leases Where the Group is a lessee in a lease which does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership from the lessor to the Group, the total lease payments, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
For operating leases of facilities used in the process of production activity, the rental expense is recognised in the cost of sales.
For operating leases relating to the use of administrative facilities, the rental expense is recognised in general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Where the Group is a lessor under an operating lease, the lease payments receivable are recognised as rental income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
o Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation expenditure related to an area of interest are written off as incurred until the management conclude that it is probable that future costs will be recovered through successful development and exploitation of the area of interest, or alternatively through its sale, from which point they are carried forward as an asset in the balance sheet and are included as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Capitalised costs include costs directly related to exploration and evaluation activities in the relevant area of interest.
General and administrative expenses are allocated to an exploration or evaluation asset only to the extent that they can be related directly to operational activities in the relevant area of interest.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The following facts and circumstances, among others indicate that exploration and evaluation assets must be tested for impairment: The period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed: Substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned: Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area: or Sufficient data exists to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, the exploration and evaluation assets subject to testing are grouped with existing cash-generating units of operating mines that are located in the same geographical region.
Where the assets are not associated with a specific cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is assessed for the specific exploration area.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense in accordance with the policy on impairment of non-financial assets.
Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as assets at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
p Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Cost includes the original purchase prices of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is recorded over the useful life of the asset, or over the expected remaining life of the mine if shorter, as follows: Buildings including mining premises : 20 to 50 years on a straight-line basis: Mining assets including mineral rights : on a units of production basis: Plant and equipment: 4 to 15 years on a straight-line basis: and Motor vehicles: 5 to 15 years on a straight-line basis.
The residual value of an asset is nil if the Group expects to use the asset until the end of its physical life.
Estimates of residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually, and any change in estimate is taken into account in the determination of future depreciation charges.
The individual significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment components, whose useful lives are different from the useful life of the asset as a whole, are depreciated individually, applying depreciation rates reflecting their anticipated useful lives.
The cost of replacing major parts or components of property, plant and equipment items is capitalised and the replaced part is retired.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Specialised spare parts and servicing equipment with a significant initial value and a useful life of more than one year are recognised as items of property, plant and equipment.
Other spare parts and servicing-related equipment are recognised as inventories and accounted for in the income statement on utilisation.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy below.
92 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued i Mining assets Once a project has been established as commercially viable, capitalised expenditures are transferred from exploration and evaluation to mining assets.
In addition, mining assets include mineral rights, expenditure incurred to establish or expand productive capacity, costs to conduct mining-construction and mining-capital works, as well as costs arising from mining preparation works during the development or mine reconstruction phase.
Development expenditure incurred by or on behalf of the Group is accumulated separately for each area of interest in which economically recoverable resources have been identified.
Such expenditure comprises costs directly attributable to the construction of a mine and the related infrastructure, including the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
When further development expenditure is incurred in respect of a mining asset after the commencement of production, such expenditure is carried forward as part of mining assets when it is probable that additional future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
Otherwise such expenditure is recognised as a cost of production.
Once a project has been fully commissioned, depreciation is charged using the units of production method, based on proved and probable reserves, with separate calculations being made for each area of interest.
The units of production basis results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of proved and probable reserves.
Mining assets are included within the category Buildings and mining assets of property, plant and equipment.
ii Assets under construction Assets under construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
Self-constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation commences on the earlier of the date when the assets are available for use.
iii Stripping costs Stripping costs comprise the removal of overburden and other waste products from a mine.
Stripping costs incurred in the development of mines and open pits before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mines and open pits, and depreciated using the unit of production method over the lives of the mines or open pits.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase of operations are treated as a production cost that form part of the cost of inventory.
q Impairment The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and all other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit and fair value less costs to sell the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset or cash generating unit CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The estimates used for impairment reviews to determine value in use are based on detailed mine plans and operating budgets, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Future cash flows are based on: Estimates of the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: Future production levels: Future commodity prices: and Future cash costs of production, capital expenditure related to construction in progress and development projects that are not yet completed, close down, restoration and environmental clean up.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
r Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The Group elects on a  basis, to measure non-controlling interests at the value of their proportion of identifiable assets and liabilities or at full fair value.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree, represents goodwill.
Bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group, with contingent consideration recognised at fair value as part of that consideration transferred.
The obligation to pay contingent consideration is classified as a liability or equity on the basis of the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration.
In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in conjunction with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to those cash-generating units or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
These cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and these groups are not larger than the Groups operating segments, which are its product groups.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually in accordance with the impairment policy described in the note above.
Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
s Intangible assets Intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value when the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy described above.
Intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives not exceeding 20 years.
t Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and held-to-maturity financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are unquoted non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise mainly loans receivable, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
ii Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
iii Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
iv Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
If the Group were to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity financial assets, the whole category would be reclassified as available-for-sale.
Recognition and measurement Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the relevant settlement date, which is the date that an asset is delivered to or by the Group.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is not recognised for assets carried at cost or amortised cost.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is recognised in the income statement for financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is provided at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is re-measured at origination at its fair value, which is represented by future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
The difference between the fair value of the loan at origination and its cost fair value of the contribution to the borrower, net of transaction costs represents an origination gain or loss.
The origination gain or loss is recorded in the income statement within finance income costs unless it qualifies for recognition as an asset, liability or a charge to equity in accordance with the substance of the arrangement.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the loans is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income costs using the effective interest method.
94 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences on available-for-sale monetary items, are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
The Group derecognises financial assets when: i the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets have otherwise expired: ii the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets: or iii the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but has not retained control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional restrictions on the sale.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, when it becomes probable that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults, and prolonged decline in the value of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale.
i Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of loss is recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting an allowance account.
ii Assets classified as available-for-sale The decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
When there is an objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is reclassified from equity to the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost net of any principal repayment and amortisation and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for an investment in an equity instrument classified as available for sale are not reversed through the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
u Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 33.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts they are designed to reduce exposures related to assets, liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred on the date a derivative contract is entered into.
Derivative financial instruments are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: Hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : Hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Management policy in 2009 was to hedge a proportion of foreign exchange risk associated with highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies, refer note 33 for details.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within other operating income expense.
Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Movements on derivatives not designated as hedge derivatives are taken to other operating income expense in the income statement.
Refer note 33 for disclosure of derivatives and financial risk management.
v Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on a weighted average basis.
Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials, consumable stores and other inventories is purchase price or extraction cost and for work in progress and finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation and overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
w Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, which is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision from the previous reporting period is recognised in the income statement.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
x Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Balances restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in other non-current assets, while balances restricted for more than three months but less than 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in trade and other receivables.
Restricted balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
y Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is re-measured at origination to its fair value, which is calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after balance sheet date.
z Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
96 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a part of finance costs.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
aa Asset retirement obligations and other environmental provisions An obligation to incur asset retirement costs occurs when environmental disturbance is caused by exploration, evaluation, development or ongoing production.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular review.
Estimates are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Asset retirement costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided when the obligation to incur such costs arises and are capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
These costs are charged against profits through depreciation of the asset and unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as a financing cost.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning or site rehabilitation of plant and other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset.
ab Employee benefit obligations Defined benefit plans The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with labour union agreements in Kazakhstan, Russia and Democratic Republic of Congo.
The agreement provides for one-off retirement payments, financial aid for employees disability, significant anniversaries and funeral aid.
The entitlement to some benefits are usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods is discounted to determine the present value.
Since Kazakhstan, Russia and Democratic Republic of Congo do not have an extensive market of high quality corporate bonds, market yields on government bonds which have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups benefit obligations are used as a basis for discount rates.
The calculation is performed annually internally or by a qualified, independent actuary depending on the complexity of computations.
The expected costs of the benefits associated with one-off retirement payments are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit post-employment plans.
This means that the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the defined liabilities obligations is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the income statement.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
Defined contribution plans For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Payroll expense and related contributions Wages, salaries, and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the Group.
On behalf of its employees, the Group pays those statutory pension and post-employment benefit amounts prescribed by the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates.
These payments are expensed as incurred.
Share-based bonus awards The Group has an equity-settled, share based compensation plans, under which the Group receives services from qualifying employees as consideration for equity instruments.
The employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity-settled payments are measured at the fair value of the equity granted and are recognised as expenses, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, due to the employees leaving the Group prior to vesting.
The amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates of grant using a Monte-Carlo pricing model.
If the Group cancels or settles a grant of equity instruments during the vesting period, it treats this as an acceleration of vesting and recognises immediately the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period.
Any payment made to a counterparty on the cancellation or settlement of a grant of equity instruments, even if this occurs after the vesting date, is accounted for as a repurchase of an equity interest i. e. as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value of the equity instruments repurchased, measured at the repurchase date.
Any such excess is recognised as an expense.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97 1.
Principal accounting policies continued ac Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
ad Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
ae Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at their fair value adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee.
Financial guarantees are recognised when premiums are paid or in the case of premium-free guarantees when the borrower received the money from the financing entity.
When the Group issues premium-free guarantees or guarantees at a premium different from the market premium, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques e. g. market prices of similar instruments, interest rate differentials, etc.. Losses at initial recognition of financial guarantee liabilities are recognised in the income statement within net other operating expenses.
Financial guarantee liabilities are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the guarantee with the respective income presented within net other operating expenses.
At each balance sheet date, the guarantees are measured at the higher of: i the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition: and ii the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
af Operating segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for making strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Taxation Taxation represents an area of inherent risk due to complexities of tax laws, frequent changes in tax rules, interaction between different taxes and interaction between tax rules of different jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the position for income taxes across the different countries in which the Group operates.
Tax provisions are recognised by the Group in accordance with tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the taxing jurisdictions, and in accordance with requirements of the applicable accounting standards.
Note 15 contains information on current tax charges, prior period adjustments, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities including, where appropriate, provisions against uncertain tax positions.
b Ore reserve estimates Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period.
This may impact the Groups financial results.
Such changes in reserves may impact depreciation charges, asset carrying values, and asset retirement obligation provisions.
The Groups ore reserves are based on its best estimate of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the relevant mining properties.
Estimates are developed after taking into account a range of factors including quantities, ore grades, production techniques and recovery rates, forecast commodity prices and production costs.
The Groups estimates are normally supported by geological studies by independent mining engineering consultants and drilling samples to determine the quantity and grade of each ore body.
Significant judgement is required to generate an estimate based on the geological data available.
Ore reserve estimates are mostly calculated based on the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code which requires the use of reasonable assumptions, including: Future production estimates which include proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and committed expansions: Expected future commodity prices, based on current market price, forward prices and the Groups assessment of the long-term average price: and Future cash costs of production, capital expenditure and rehabilitation obligations.
98 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued c Life of mines Contracts for subsurface use expire between 2012 and 2041.
Management expects that the subsurface use contracts will be extended at nominal cost until the end of the lives of the related mines, which range between 9 and 48 years.
Any change to this assumption may impact the Groups financial results by affecting depreciation charges, asset carrying values and asset retirement obligations, as these have been recorded on the assumption that the subsurface use contracts will be extended until the end of the mine life.
If the contracts are not renewed at their current expiry dates, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment existing at the expiry date to be written off at the date of expiry is US$923 million as at 31 December 2010 2009: US$612 million.
d Provision for asset retirement obligations Provision is made for asset retirement obligations when the related environmental disturbance takes place.
Provisions are recognised at the net present value of future expected costs as outlined in notes 1 and 28.
The provision recognised represents managements best estimate of the costs that will be incurred but significant judgement is required as many of these costs will not crystallise until the end of the life of the mine.
Estimates are reviewed annually and are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Significant changes in environmental legislation, restoration techniques and estimates of contamination will result in changes to provisions from period to period.
The long-term inflation rate currently applied in the calculation is 2.8%-5.8% as at 31 December 2010 2009: 5.6%-6.2% being the estimate of the rate of inflation over the mine lives.
The discount rate currently applied in the calculation is 7.9%-9.0% at 31 December 2010 2009: 6.0%-8.9% being the estimate of the risk-free pre-tax interest rates for long-term government securities.
Rehabilitation expenditure is largely expected to take place at the end of the respective mine lives, which varies from 9 to 48 years.
e Impairment As stated in note 2 f below, the Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of the values of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
The Group also at the reporting date considers the recoverability of all assets if there have been any indications of impairment.
The recoverability of the value of financial assets is addressed through the Groups usual procedures refer note 1, for example the assessment of counterparty default risk, both customer and financial counterparties, and is not part of this impairment review.
Long term non-financial assets require there to be a reasonable expectation of recoverability of the carrying value of those assets through profitability and cash flow.
Accordingly, if an impairment indicator exists, the Groups approach is to consider the ability of its groups of cash-generating units, which have no goodwill in their financial statements, to generate future economic benefits which exceed the value of the related tangible assets in the financial statements.
In measuring the value in use for each CGU the Group based cash flow projections on the entities most recent business plans.
Cash flow projections in these business plans are extrapolated until the last year of the life-of-mine applicable for each CGU.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 37 years as of 31 December 2010.
The long-term US inflation rate has been used as the assumed growth rate in the preparation of these cash flows.
The key assumptions which formed the basis of forecasting future cash flows in the models as of 31 December 2010 are: Commodity prices, which are based on internal forecasts by the management of the Groups sales and marketing business.
These internal forecasts are compared to the forecasts of industry market researchers: Long-term costs are set in line with current operational performance, as adjusted for future inflation rates in countries of operation and, where applicable, the expected movements in key input costs: The successful extraction, processing and sale of the reserves in accordance with the quantities described in the report on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources on pages 144 to 151 and companies long term mine plans: The long-term US inflation rate will average 2.8% per annum, in line with external forecasts: and In determining the discount rate to be applied to the future cash flows the Group based its computation on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital for the Group, which is adjusted for the country risk premium for each CGU accordingly.
The rates used were in the range of 11.01%-13.03%.
The impairment reviews as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 concluded that no impairment provisions are required for long-term non-financial assets.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued f Business combinations and goodwill The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year.
Judgements and estimates are made in respect of the measurement of the provisional and final fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and consideration transferred.
Where necessary, the Group hired external valuation consultants to advise on the fair value and asset lives of acquired assets, otherwise these were estimated internally.
The portion of the purchase price not allocated to specific assets and liabilities as identified by management has been attributed to goodwill.
The Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of the values of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
For groups of CGUs that were allocated goodwill the Groups most recent business plans were used to calculate discounted future cash flows Value in Use per IAS 36 and thus assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the goodwill.
Cash flows in these business plans were extrapolated until the last year of life-of-mine applicable to each CGU as this period properly reflects the long term nature of the Groups assets.
The key assumptions which form the basis of forecasting future cash flows are the same as listed in section 2 e above.
The impairment reviews as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 concluded that no impairment provisions are required for goodwill.
g Contingent liabilities The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 36.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
New accounting pronouncements i Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 and are relevant to the Groups operations IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates, and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared with IFRS 3, which are described in note 1 r. IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
When control is lost, any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Also, total comprehensive income is attributed to the owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
There have been no transactions whereby an interest in an entity is retained after the loss of control of that entity, and where there have been transactions with non-controlling interests they do not have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest CGU or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
The amendment does not have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, effective 1 January 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
The amendments do not have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
100 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
New accounting pronouncements continued IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
The amendment clarifies that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also clarifies that the general requirement of IAS 1 still apply, in particular paragraph 15 to achieve a fair presentation and paragraph 125 sources of estimation uncertainty of IAS 1.
As the change only results in additional disclosures, there is no impact on earning per share.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards issued in April 2009.
Amendments to IAS 38, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 9 and IFRIC 1 which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: amendments to IFRS 5, IFRS 8, IAS 1, IAS 7, IAS 17 and IAS 36 which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010. ii Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 but not currently relevant to the Group The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 but they are not currently relevant to the Groups operations: IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements, effective for the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Embedded Derivatives Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 effective for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers effective prospectively to transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009, earlier application permitted.
IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards following an amendment in December 2008, effective for the first IFRS financial statements for a period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment to IFRIC 14 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for first-time adopters Amendment to IFRS 1 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. iii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 or later periods, but the Group has not early adopted them: IFRS 9, Financial Instruments issued in November 2009, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, with earlier application permitted, not yet adopted by the EU.
IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures amended November 2009, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Classification of Rights Issues Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the listed above amendments and new standards on its financial statements.
Segment information Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO and used to make strategic decisions.
The CEO considers the business from a products and services perspective and assesses the performance of the operating segments based on the measure of Underlying EBITDA refer note 37.
The amounts provided to the CEO with respect to segment assets and segment liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These assets and liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment and their physical conditions.
Segment Underlying EBITDA, assets and liabilities includes items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, and trade and other receivables and mainly exclude investments in joint ventures and associates, other financial assets, loans receivable, unallocated term deposits and deferred and current income tax assets.
Segment liabilities comprise primarily trade and other payables and mainly exclude borrowings and deferred and current income tax liabilities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101 4.
Segment information continued The Group is organised on the basis of six 2009: six operating segments: Ferroalloys comprises the extraction and sale of chrome ore as well as the production of ferroalloys from chromium and manganese ores: Iron Ore comprises exploration, extraction, processing and manufacturing of iron ore products: Alumina and Aluminium comprises extraction and processing of bauxite and limestone, and smelting of alumina and aluminium: Other Non-ferrous comprises the exploration and extraction, processing and manufacturing of copper and cobalt products, and the exploration of other minerals in Africa: Energy comprises coal mining and power generation: and Logistics Kazakhstans main freight forwarder and railroad operator, providing international logistics for all Eurasian based ENRC operations: also rail construction and repair services for the Kazakhstani state rail company.
Includes also logistics and trucking operations throughout Southern Africa.
Internal charges between segments have been reflected in the performance of each operating segment.
The Group has a number of activities that exist principally to support the metals operations including power generation, coal mining and transportation.
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under a cost-plus pricing structure.
The revenue generated from external parties reported to the CEO is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated income statement.
The identified operating and reportable segments of the Group are the same as those that applied to the consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The following acquisitions have been added to the Groups segments during 2010.
Company Segment Enya Holdings BV Enya and Chambishi Metals PLC Chambishi Other Non-ferrous Comit Resources FZE Comit Other Non-ferrous Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK Other Non-ferrous Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl CCC Other Non-ferrous Bahia Minerals BV BMBV and Bahia Minerao Ltda BML Iron Ore Minerao Minas Bahia SA MIBA Iron Ore Minerao Peixe Bravo SA MPB Iron Ore During the year, management of the SABOT logistics business, which was acquired with CAMEC, was transferred from the Other Non-ferrous Division to the Logistics Division.
As a result of this change, the segment classification of the SABOT logistics business has changed for the current year and the prior year has been restated in this respect.
The impact of the SABOT restatement is a transfer of revenue of US$14million, Underlying EBITDA of US$1 million, Segment assets of US$74 million and Segment liabilities of US$5 million from the Other Non-ferrous segment to the Logistics segment.
In addition, the 2009 Segment assets and liabilities of the Other Non-ferrous segment were restated as detailed in note 6 to reflect the completion of the CAMEC fair value measurement period.
Alumina and Other 2010 Segment information Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Non-ferrous Energy Logistics Intra Group In millions of US$ Division Division Division Division Division Division Corporate Eliminations Total Revenue 2,988 1,875 906 412 200 218 6 6,605 Inter-segment revenue 8 1 20 342 134 505 Segment revenue 2,996 1,876 926 412 542 352 6 505 6,605 Segment operating profit loss 1,293 1,045 178 7 262 54 129 2,710 Finance income 57 Finance cost 101 Gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture 298 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 13 Profit before income tax 2,977 Income tax expense 780 Profit for the year 2,197 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 110 88 89 53 46 21 4 411 Underlying EBITDA refer note 37 1,403 1,133 267 60 308 75 52 3,194 Capital expenditure 254 319 261 101 192 21 39 1,187 Segment assets 2,754 4,089 2,017 2,058 929 375 1,103 47 13,278 Segment liabilities 295 121 72 74 51 96 622 47 1,284 11,994 Unallocated term deposits 70 Investments in joint ventures and associates 393 Other financial assets 413 Loans receivable 116 Borrowings 1,632 Deferred and current income tax assets 48 Deferred and current income tax liabilities 1,369 Total equity 10,033 Average number of employees 24,667 18,319 13,844 5,907 6,814 4,150 397 74,098 102 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Segment information continued Alumina and Other 2009 Segment information Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Non-ferrous Energy Logistics Intra Group In millions of US$ As restated Division Division Division Division Division Division Corporate Eliminations Total Revenue 1,871 1,093 563 41 196 67 3,831 Inter-segment revenue 3 2 206 104 315 Segment revenue 1,874 1,093 565 41 402 171 315 3,831 Segment operating profit loss 781 453 5 179 24 68 1,374 Finance income 191 Finance cost 157 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 31 Profit before income tax 1,439 Income tax expense 377 Profit for the year 1,062 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 90 79 65 5 41 16 2 298 Underlying EBITDA refer note 37 707 485 78 5 213 40 66 1,462 Capital expenditure 248 225 356 6 281 24 7 1,147 Segment assets 2,574 1,544 1,840 1,331 807 291 610 488 8,509 Segment liabilities 605 196 115 115 59 36 44 488 682 7,827 Unallocated term deposits 128 Investments in joint ventures and associates 615 Other financial assets 115 Loans receivable 195 Borrowings 428 Deferred and current income tax assets 56 Deferred and current income tax liabilities 529 Total equity 7,979 Average number of employees 23,892 17,652 14,115 3,558 6,589 4,250 266 70,322 Geographical information The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its non-current assets by geographical location are detailed below: Revenue from 1 external customers Non-current assets Years ended 31 December As at 31 December 2009 6 In millions of US$ 2010 2009 2010 As restated 2 Eurasia 2,699 1,651 5,589 4,887 3 Asia Pacific 2,341 1,480 24 22 4 Europe and Middle East 1,058 527 25 4 Africa 215 11 1,922 1,333 5 Rest of the World 292 162 2,269 6,605 3,831 9,829 6,246 1 Non-current assets excluding investments in joint ventures and associates, other financial assets, loans receivable, and deferred tax assets.
2 Eurasia comprises Kazakhstan, Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union.
3 Asia Pacific comprises China, Korea, and Japan.
4 The Group does not derive revenues in the UK.
5 Non-current assets in respect of the Rest of the World in 2010 relate to the Brazilian acquisitions.
6 2009 has been restated as described in note 6.
Major customers Included in revenues arising from iron ore sales of US$1,875 million 2009: US$1,093 million are revenues of approximately US$1,069 million 2009: US$570 million which arose from sales to the Groups largest customer, Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works OJSC MMK.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103 5.
Balances and transactions with related parties During the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, the Group entered into the following transactions in the ordinary course of business with related parties: Founder The Republic 1 Shareholders of Kazakhstan Joint ventures Associates Other Total In millions of US$ 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Revenue from sale of goods 20 5 4 3 2 26 8 Revenue from the provision of services 3 1 140 45 143 46 Purchases of goods 55 25 38 19 93 44 Purchases of services 78 65 7 85 65 Finance income 14 8 3 4 17 12 Finance cost 6 2 10 17 23 33 25 Purchase of property, 2 plant and equipment 9 4 9 4 1 Includes all entities under the control of the Founder Shareholders.
2 Refer to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment section within this note.
1 Founder Shareholders The Republic Joint ventures Associates Other Total Eurasian Bank Other of Kazakhstan In millions of US$ 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Non-current assets Loans receivable 3 89 60 4 3 96 63 2 Other financial assets 11 4 11 4 3 Other non-current assets 15 8 24 39 8 Current assets Trade and other 4 receivables 26 123 18 36 10 54 159 Cash and cash equivalents 208 135 208 135 Loans receivable 3 2 3 6 2 Other financial assets 10 10 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 884 73 957 Current liabilities Borrowings 1 5 16 50 71 1 Trade and other payables 10 14 2 12 14 1 Includes all entities under control of the Founder shareholders.
2 Other financial assets with Eurasian Bank JSC includes term deposits of US$11 million 2009: US$4 million for the retirement of assets in accordance with the requirements of contracts on subsurface use.
3 Other non-current assets with Founder shareholders of US$24 million relate to payments on account for property, plant and equipment 2009: US$nil.
4 Trade and other receivables with Eurasian Bank JSC includes letters of credit of US$8 million 2009: US$14 million and term deposits of US$18 million 2009: US$109 million.
Founder Shareholders The Group was formed from a collection of entities jointly controlled by the three Founder Shareholders, Mr Patokh Chodiev, Mr Alijan Ibragimov and Mr Alexander Mashkevitch.
The Founder Shareholders continue to be major shareholders of the Company and collectively own, including shares held through trusts and other entities, 43.8% of the Company as at 31 December 2010 2009: 43.8%.
For the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, the Group undertook significant related party transactions with entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
All transactions with related parties over US$1 million had to be and were approved by the Companys Board.
Revenue from the sale of goods to entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders were recognised in the following segments: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Revenue from the sale of goods Other Non-ferrous 11 3 Energy 9 Ferroalloys 1 Iron Ore 1 20 5 104 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued The purchase of goods and services from entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders included the following transactions: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Purchases of goods Purchases of raw materials 55 25 55 25 Purchases of services Insurance 35 18 Security services 16 21 Rental expenses 7 7 Bank charges 4 3 Other 16 16 78 65 Eurasian Bank JSC Eurasian Bank JSC is a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Term deposits held at Eurasian Bank JSC have an effective interest rate for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 4.0% 2009: 6.9%.
Cash and cash equivalents held at Eurasian Bank JSC bear 0.7% interest rate 2009: nil.
There were no restrictions on the balance of US$208 million 2009: US$135 million in cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2010.
The Republic of Kazakhstan The Group conducted transactions with entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan, one of the Companys shareholders.
The principal activities with the government departments and agencies were as follows: Provision of railway repair services through Company Zhol Zhondeushy LLP: Supply of electricity through Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC: and Purchases of goods and services disclosed within operating costs, including general Kazakhstani taxes.
All transactions between the Group and government departments and agencies are considered to be related party transactions, unless they meet all of the following criteria: They were carried out in the normal course of the government departments and agencies dealings: There is no choice of suppliers: and They have terms and conditions including prices, privileges, credit terms, regulations etc.
that are consistently applied to all entities, public or private.
In 2010 the Group entered into loan agreements with Development Bank of Kazakhstan and JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna, entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Refer note 27 for further detail.
The Group did not have any privileged transactions with entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acquisitions Acquisitions business combinations In April 2010 the Group acquired Enya Holdings BV and Comit Resources FZE from International Mineral Resources BV IMR, a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Refer note 6 for further detail.
During 2009, the Group acquired control over ASEK Reinsurance AG for cash consideration of US$12 million and ENRC PMZ LLP for cash consideration of US$20 million from entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Acquisitions joint ventures and associates During 2009, the Group acquired a 25% interest in Shubarkol Komir JSC, from a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
In January 2011 an extension to the call option was granted.
Refer note 19 and note 39 for further detail.
Acquisitions options On 8 January 2009 the Group purchased an option for a cash consideration of US$10 million, from a company controlled by Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev, one of the Groups non-executive Directors, to acquire a 70% interest in Masalskoe GOK LLP.
Masalskoe is a company with rights for exploration and production of iron ore of the Masalskoe deposit in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Further details are set out in note 20.
Consideration paid for the option was used by Masalskoe to finance its exploration works.
Under the terms of the agreement the price to be payable on the exercise of the call option was US$100 million.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105 5.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued Acquisitions property, plant and equipment During 2010, the Group acquired railway wagons for cash consideration of US$9 million from a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
During 2009, the Group acquired buildings and land in Petropavlovsk, the Republic of Kazakhstan for cash consideration of US$4 million from a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Debt to equity swap In January 2010, the Group converted a US$27 million loan to Bahia Minerals BV BMBV into an equity investment in BMBV.
Refer note 19 for further detail.
Guarantees During 2010, as part of the 50.5% acquisition of the issued share capital of Camrose, the Group provided a guarantee to secure repayment of US$155 million outstanding debt by Cerida Global Limited Cerida the Groups joint venture partner in Camrose, which is owned by the Gertler Family Trust.
During 2010, the Group provided guarantees to secure the repayment of US$7 million by a subsidiary of Shubarkol Komir JSC an associate of the Group.
Loan commitments During 2010, the Group provided a US$400 million shareholder loan facility to Camrose, as part of the acquisition of 50.5% of the issued share capital of Camrose.
The facility has been made available to Camrose for the purpose of satisfying existing payment obligations, by repaying committed loans previously undertaken by Camrose, funding working capital, commencing feasibility studies, as well as mine planning and development.
As at 31 December 2010 Camrose had drawn down US$81 million of the facility.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
They include the Board and Senior management as identified on pages 58 to 59 and 60 to 61 respectively.
Compensation for key management personnel is set out in the table below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Short-term employee benefits 28 25 Share-based payments 5 9 1 Post-employment benefits Termination benefits 3 Total 34 37 Balances outstanding with key management arising from key management compensation were as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 1 Payables 14 14 1 Payables represent accrued bonuses and LTIP settlements.
Board Compensation Compensation payable to Directors of the Company is for services performed for the Group.
Directors detailed emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 78.
106 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6. Business combinations Enya Holdings BV and Comit Resources FZE On 6 April 2010, the Group acquired 100% of Enya Holdings BV Enya which holds a 90% interest in Chambishi Metals PLC Chambishi, a Zambian copper and cobalt producer and also acquired a 100% of Comit Resources FZE Comit, a Dubai-based marketing and sales company that historically has handled Chambishis copper and cobalt sales.
The gross cash consideration for the transaction amounted to US$300 million.
The acquisition of Enya and Comit was effectively completed and control obtained by the Group in April 2010.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Enya and Comit as at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated as follows: Carrying Provisional Provisional values at fair value fair values at In millions of US$ acquisition date adjustments acquisition date Property, plant and equipment 178 31 147 Loans receivable 10 10 Inventories 41 10 31 Trade and other receivables 5 5 Total assets 234 41 193 Deferred tax liabilities 37 1 38 Asset retirement obligations 4 1 3 Borrowings 2 2 Trade and other payables 38 38 Total liabilities 81 81 Net assets 153 41 112 1 Non-controlling interests 1 Goodwill 185 Net attributable assets 296 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 300 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 Net cash outflow on acquisition 296 1 Includes non-controlling interests of a subsidiary not wholly owned by Enya.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of Chambishi primarily because of the strong strategic location of the assets within the copper and cobalt belt of Zambia.
Chambishi is well placed to take advantage of the potential growth in the copper and cobalt mining activity within the region.
The acquisition complements the Groups strategy of expansion in the copper and cobalt business.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The provisional fair value adjustments include measurement period adjustments made since 30 June 2010.
Acquisition costs of US$4 million have been expensed and included in general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables balances at acquisition date included gross contractual amounts due of US$2 million, none of which was expected to be uncollectible at the acquisition date.
The loans receivable balances at acquisition date comprised gross contractual amounts due of US$12 million, none of which was expected to be uncollectible at the acquisition date.
The Group has chosen to recognise the non-controlling interests for this acquisition based on their proportionate share of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree.
The acquired businesses contributed revenue of US$132 million and loss after income tax of US$8 million from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, the impact to the Groups revenue would have been an additional US$28 million, whilst the impact to profit after income tax would have been an additional loss of US$9 million.
Bahia Minerals BV BMBV On 21 September 2010 the Group completed the purchase of the outstanding 50% of the common shares of Bahia Minerals BV BMBV commonly referred to as the BML Project from Ardila Investments NV Ardila, a subsidiary of Zamin BM NV, being the shares of BMBV which ENRC did not already own.
BMBV is the sole shareholder of two Brazilian companies, Bahia Minerao Limitada BML and Eire Minerao Limitada EML.
BML and EML are the only assets within BMBV, in the Caetite region in the State of Bahia in Brazil.
The 50% interest in BMBV was acquired for a net cash consideration of US$670 million before discounting, after assuming net debt of approximately US$65 million.
A payment of US$168 million was made at completion, from existing cash resources.
The remaining US$503 million the Deferred Consideration is payable in two instalments, of US$168 million and US$335 million respectively which are subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
Following the completion of the acquisition the Group owns 100% of BMBV.
The Group also secured an option to purchase 100% of the outstanding shares of Block V Limited and Caera Minerals Limited, which together own Greystone Minerao do Brasil Limitada Greystone, from Zamin.
The Group paid US$50 million for grant of this option as an advance against its exercise price.
The advance was to be offset either against the exercise price should the Group exercise the option, or otherwise against the Deferred Consideration for BMBV should the Group not exercise the option.
The Group elected not to exercise the option and as a consequence the payment was offset against the Deferred Consideration.
Subsequently, the Group also made a payment of US$84 million against the Deferred Consideration upon achievement of certain logistical infrastructure approvals.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107 6. Business combinations continued The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of BMBV as at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated as follows: Carrying Provisional Provisional values at fair value fair values at In millions of US$ acquisition date adjustments acquisition date Property, plant and equipment 85 1,340 1,425 Intangible assets 7 7 Other financial non-current assets 25 25 Total assets 117 1,333 1,450 Deferred tax liabilities 453 453 Trade and other payables 103 103 Total liabilities 103 453 556 Net assets 14 880 894 Goodwill 453 Net attributable assets 1,347 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash including option 218 Cash acquired 50 Net cash outflow on acquisition 168 Fair value of Deferred Consideration at acquisition date 449 Debt due from vendor assumed 65 Gain related to recognition of initial 50% interest at fair value 298 Carrying value of initial 50% interest at acquisition date 367 Total consideration 1,347 The gain of US$298 million arising on recognition of the Groups existing interest in BMBV at fair value is recognised in the income statement.
The fair value adjustments are to recognise mineral rights acquired and deferred taxation arising thereon.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights within property, plant and equipment.
The deferred consideration has been discounted to its fair value on initial recognition of this liability.
Acquisition costs of US$1 million have been expensed and included in general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The acquired businesses contributed revenue of US$nil and loss after income tax of US$19 million from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, the impact to the Groups revenue would have been an additional US$nil, whilst the impact to profit after income tax would have been an additional profit of US$4 million.
Minerao Minas Bahia SA MIBA and Minerao Peixe Bravo SA MPB In October 2010, the Group announced the purchase of 100% of the common shares of MIBA.
The cash consideration is payable in instalments, and shares of MIBA are transferred to the Group against each instalment.
During 2010 the Group paid US$100 million, and received 42.4% of MIBA.
The remainder is payable in two instalments, of US$48 million in April 2011 and October 2011 and a final instalment of approximately US$47 million in April 2012 together Deferred consideration.
In addition, the Group subscribed for new common shares representing 51% of the enlarged share capital of Minerao Peixe Bravo SA MPB.
The Group also holds a 3 year option, from 20 October 2010, to purchase the remaining 49% of MPB from its shareholders for US$50 million.
The combined acquisitions and related deals have a total cash consideration of up to US$304 million, which includes US$54 million payable to Steel do Brasil Participaes SA Steel do Brasil.
The total consideration comprises US$250 million payable to the shareholders of MIBA a group of individuals primarily composed of the Couri family together, the Sellers and to MPB.
Both MIBA and MPB have been accounted for as subsidiaries.
MPB has been treated as a subsidiary because, under IFRS, the Group is considered to have control through the right to acquire the remaining shares and the terms of the shareholders agreement.
Although the Group currently holds less than 50% of MIBA it considers it has control on the basis of the shareholders agreement and its obligation to acquire the remaining shares in the business.
In addition, up to US$54 million is payable to Steel do Brasil.
Steel do Brasil previously entered into agreements to acquire 100% of the outstanding common shares of MIBA and 50% of the outstanding common shares of MPB.
Steel do Brasil had agreed to allow the Sellers to negotiate an independent agreement with the Group and, if successful, conclude the transaction with the Group.
Any amounts payable to Steel do Brasil are treated as acquisition costs and immediately expensed.
108 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6. Business combinations continued The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of MIBA and MPB as at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated as follows: Carrying Provisional Provisional fair values at fair value values at In millions of US$ acquisition date adjustments acquisition date Property, plant and equipment 242 242 Deferred tax liabilities 82 82 Net assets 160 160 Non-controlling interests Goodwill 82 Net attributable assets 242 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 100 Net cash outflow on acquisition 100 Fair value of Deferred Consideration at acquisition date 142 Total consideration 242 The fair value adjustments are to recognise mineral rights acquired and deferred taxation arising thereon.
The fair value adjustments and non-controlling interests which are not currently material are provisional at 31 December 2010.
Acquisition costs of US$62 million have been expensed and included in general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The acquired businesses contributed revenue of US$nil and profit after income tax of US$nil from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, the impact to the Groups revenue would have been an additional US$nil, whilst the impact to profit after income tax would have been US$nil.
Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl A 50% interest in Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK was acquired on 9 November 2009 as part of the CAMEC acquisition.
SMKK is the title holder of some exploration permit assets contiguous to the Groups existing operations in the DRC.
At 31 December 2009, the provisional carrying value of the Groups investment in SMKK was US$75 million.
This investment was accounted for as an associate using the equity method.
In 2009 the Group acquired an option, for a cash consideration of US$25 million, to purchase the outstanding 50% of the issued share capital of SMKK by acquiring the entire issued share capital of Emerald Star Enterprises Limited ESEL, an entity controlled by the Gertler family trust, the owner of the outstanding 50% of SMKK.
The Group exercised this option and the acquisition of ESEL was effectively completed and control obtained by the Group in June 2010.
The total cash consideration in respect of the outstanding SMKK shares, inclusive of the US$25 million option, amounted to US$75 million.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of SMKK and ESEL as at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated as follows: Provisional fair values at In millions of US$ acquisition date Property, plant and equipment 155 Total assets 155 Deferred tax liabilities 47 Asset retirement obligations 3 Trade and other payables 1 Total liabilities 51 Net assets 104 Goodwill 46 Net attributable assets 150 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 50 Fair value of exercised option at acquisition date 25 Fair value of initial 50% interest at acquisition date 75 Total consideration 150 The goodwill recognised on acquisition is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights within property, plant and equipment.
There were no significant acquisition costs incurred in relation to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest.
The acquired businesses contributed US$nil revenue and profit after income tax from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, the impact to the Groups revenue and profit after income tax would have been US$nil.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109 6. Business combinations continued Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl With effect from 1 July 2010 the Group acquired, Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl CCC, a legal entity registered in the DRC that provides mining contracting services to Boss Mining Sprl part of the CAMEC group of companies and SMKK.
Consideration of US$4.5 million US$3 million net of cash acquired was paid.
Central African Mining & Exploration Company PLC On 18 September 2009, the Group made a 0.20 per share cash offer for all outstanding shares in Central African Mining & Exploration Company PLC CAMEC, at which time the Group held 28.73% of CAMEC and accounted for the investment as an associate using the equity method.
On 9 November 2009, upon the offer becoming unconditional following the receipt of acceptances in respect of 88.28% of CAMECs share capital, the Group obtained control of CAMEC.
As at 31 December 2009 the Group held 96.05% of CAMECs share capital for a total cash consideration of US$931 million.
CAMEC, which was previously listed on the United Kingdoms Alternative Investment Market AIM, was an Africa-focused emerging mining company with operations centred around copper and cobalt mining and exploration, trucking and logistics, coal, bauxite and fluorspar exploration as well as platinum prospects.
The fair values of the identifiable asset and liabilities of CAMEC as at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated and disclosed in the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts of ENRC.
The Group has now completed the measurement of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired with CAMEC.
The table below sets out the movements from the provisional fair values detailed in the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts and the final fair values at acquisition date.
These adjustments have been recorded as a prior year restatement of the Balance Sheet of the Group at 31 December 2009.
There is no consequential impact to the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Provisional Final Final fair values at fair value fair values at In millions of US$ acquisition date adjustments acquisition date Property, plant and equipment 1,150 10 1,160 Investments in associates 75 75 Loans receivable current and non-current 54 20 74 Deferred tax assets 32 32 Inventories 23 23 Trade and other receivables 21 21 Other financial assets 2 2 Total assets 1,357 30 1,387 Deferred tax liabilities 307 2 305 Asset retirement obligations 1 1 Employee benefit obligations 2 2 Borrowings 4 4 Trade and other payables 112 15 127 Current income tax payable 21 11 32 Total liabilities 447 24 471 Net assets 910 6 916 Non-controlling interests 193 25 168 Goodwill 200 31 169 Net attributable assets 917 917 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 931 931 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 14 14 Net cash outflow on acquisition 917 917 The goodwill balance is primarily the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights within property, plant and equipment.
This deferred tax liability is recognised within the carrying values at the acquisition date with an additional amount included within the fair value adjustments.
The adjustments made to restate the balance sheet relate primarily to the final measurement of mineral rights acquired and other adjustments relating to loan receivables, trade payables and current income tax payable which were required when the Group completed its review of the acquired balance sheet.
Acquisition costs of US$6 million were expensed in the 31 December 2010 income statement.
In addition, the Group completed a partial buyout of non-controlling interests in CAMEC for a cash consideration of US$9 million.
As a result, the Groups interest in CAMEC increased to 96.88% of CAMECs issued share capital.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of US$9 million, and no impact on retained earnings.
110 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6. Business combinations continued Fair value estimates The provisional values of assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition are their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
Accounting standards permit up to 12 months for provisional acquisition accounting to be finalised following the acquisition date if any subsequent information provides better evidence of the items fair value at the date of acquisition.
For all business combinations, the Group either undertook or is in the process of undertaking a detailed review to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition.
Such reviews may include engaging third party advisers to determine the fair values of the cash-generating units of the entities acquired.
Revenue Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Sale of goods, net of discounts 6,355 3,691 Logistics services 239 53 Sales of by-products and other revenue 11 87 Total revenue 6,605 3,831 8.
Cost of sales Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Materials and components used 1,237 735 Staff costs 528 370 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 398 288 Mineral extraction taxes, royalties and other taxes 360 195 Power and energy 156 69 Repairs and maintenance 99 53 Insurance 31 17 In-plant carriage costs 7 4 Realised loss on the cash flow hedges 61 Rent 3 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 138 51 Other 169 101 Total cost of sales 2,847 1,947 9.
Distribution costs Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Transportation costs 383 302 Agency and commission fees 26 12 Taxes and duties 13 9 Insurance 6 4 Staff costs 5 5 Other 52 34 Total distribution costs 485 366 10.
General and administrative expenses Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Staff costs 196 151 Professional and other services 118 39 Sponsorship and donations 63 37 Taxes other than on income 32 28 Travel and entertainment 23 15 Rent 13 12 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 13 10 Bank charges 7 5 Insurance 6 3 Utilities and telecommunication services 5 6 Repairs and maintenance 5 6 Impairment loss provision 1 7 Other 75 40 Total general and administrative expenses 555 359 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111 11.
Other operating income and expense Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Foreign exchange gains 78 225 Other 13 28 Total other operating income 91 253 Foreign exchange losses 79 18 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1 2 Other 19 18 Total other operating expense 99 38 Net other operating expense income 8 215 12.
Employee benefit expense Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Wages and salaries 674 455 Compulsory social security contributions 53 42 Contributions to defined contribution plans 2 2 Income expense related to defined benefit plans 29 8 14 Share-based payments 32 8 13 Total employee benefit expense 729 526 13.
Finance income Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Interest income 28 58 Foreign exchange gains 15 125 Dividends 6 Unwinding gain on origination of loan 2 Gain on disposal of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8 Other 6 Total finance income 57 191 14.
Finance cost Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Fair value loss on origination of loans granted 17 23 Interest expense on borrowings 17 11 Foreign exchange losses 14 88 Amortisation of financial instruments discount 13 5 Other interest expense 11 5 Unwinding of asset retirement obligation discount 5 7 Unwinding of employee benefits obligations discount 2 2 Fair value loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2 Other 22 16 101 159 Less capitalised borrowing costs 2 Total finance cost 101 157 15.
Income taxes Income tax expense comprises the following: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Current tax Corporate income tax current period 662 322 Corporate income tax prior periods 11 9 Withholding taxes 26 51 Total current tax 677 364 Deferred tax Deferred income tax current period 55 9 Deferred income tax prior periods 12 Deferred income tax effect of changes in tax legislation 48 16 Total deferred tax 103 13 Total income tax expense 780 377 112 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Income taxes continued Factors affecting future tax charges Future tax charges are affected by changes to the applicable laws and regulations in, as well as profit mix from, the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Given that the Group is subject to Excess Profits Tax in the Republic of Kazakhstan, future tax charges are also affected by product prices and profitability levels achieved on subsurface use contracts in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In November 2010, the Republic of Kazakhstan extended the applicable 20% rate of Corporate Income Tax and the currently applicable rates of Mineral Extraction Tax indefinitely.
The enacted changes resulted in remeasurement of the deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2010, and an increase to the income tax charge of US$48 million.
A reduction in the applicable rate of Corporate Income Tax in the UK from 28% to 27% with effect from 1 April 2011 was enacted on 20 July 2010.
A further reduction to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011 has subsequently been announced and is expected to be enacted in due course, along with a proposal to reduce the rate to 25% from 1 April 2012.
Tax charge reconciliation Reconciliation between the actual tax charge for the period and the expected tax charge on the profit before tax for the period at the tax rate of 20% applicable in the Republic of Kazakhstan, where the majority of the Groups operations are located, is provided below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Profit before income tax 2,977 1,439 Notional tax charge at 20% 2009: 20% 595 288 Excess profits tax current year 148 31 Non-taxable gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture 60 Items not deductible for tax purposes 53 37 Effect of change in tax rate 48 16 Losses not recognised for tax purposes 31 18 Effects of different tax rates in other countries 27 13 Withholding taxes 26 51 Income not chargeable for tax purposes 25 15 Acquisition costs not deductible for tax purposes 15 Prior year adjustment 11 21 Recognition or utilisation of previously unrecognised losses 8 6 Other 5 9 Income tax expense for the year 780 377 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the aggregate amount of income tax related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income was US$nil 2009: US$4 million.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax movements for the year are summarised below as follows: 31 December Charged Charged to 2009 as 31 December credited other previously 2009 as Additions on to income comprehensive Exchange 31 December In millions of US$ reported Restatement restated acquisitions statement income differences 2010 Gross deferred tax assets Temporary timing differences 108 108 1 1 108 Less offsetting with deferred tax liabilities 65 65 2 67 Recognised deferred tax assets 43 43 3 1 41 Tax effect of taxable temporary differences Property, plant and equipment 514 2 512 620 102 1 1,235 Other temporary timing differences 8 8 8 Gross deferred tax liabilities 522 2 520 620 102 1 1,243 Less offsetting with deferred tax assets 65 65 2 67 Recognised deferred tax liabilities 457 2 455 620 100 1 1,176 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113 15.
Income taxes continued Charged Charged to credited other 31 December Additions on to income comprehensive Exchange 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 acquisitions statement income differences 2009 Gross deferred tax assets Temporary timing differences 81 32 6 11 108 Less offsetting with deferred tax liabilities 49 16 65 Recognised deferred tax assets 32 32 10 11 43 Tax effect of taxable temporary differences Property, plant and equipment as restated 227 309 19 43 512 Other temporary timing differences 5 4 1 8 Gross deferred tax liabilities 232 309 19 4 44 520 Less offsetting with deferred tax assets 49 16 65 Recognised deferred tax liabilities as restated 183 309 3 4 44 455 Of the gross deferred tax liability of US$1,243 million 2009 as restated: US$520 million as at 31 December 2010, US$853 million 2009 as restated: US$273 million relates to deferred tax liabilities in respect of mineral rights.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences of US$91 million 2009: US$77 million.
Of this amount, US$14 million 2009: US$11 million relates to losses which expire within 10 years, and US$77 million 2009: US$66 million relates to losses which have no expiry date.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures where remittance is not contemplated or where no additional tax is expected to arise.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments is US$6,167 million 2009: US$4,686 million.
Earnings per share Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless otherwise stated Note 2010 2009 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,185 1,045 Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 1,287,750,000 1,287,750,000 Adjusted for: Potential share based awards under Long-term Incentive Plan 32 1,950,925 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 1,287,750,000 1,289,700,925 Basic and diluted earnings per share US cents 170 81 17.
Property, plant and equipment Buildings and Plant and Assets under In millions of US$ Freehold land mining assets equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2010 as previously reported 44 2,581 2,385 713 1,126 6,849 Restatement note 6 28 10 8 10 Cost at 1 January 2010 as restated 44 2,609 2,375 705 1,126 6,859 Additions 43 114 75 943 1,175 Additions on business acquisitions 9 1,752 144 5 91 2,001 Change in asset retirement costs 14 6 2 18 Transfers 214 383 74 671 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 15 49 8 6 78 Disposals 21 27 22 12 82 Exchange differences 1 21 16 4 12 54 At 31 December 2010 54 4,589 2,950 833 1,485 9,911 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2010 367 737 275 1,379 Disposals 5 21 17 43 Depreciation charge 107 242 75 424 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 9 29 5 43 Exchange differences 2 5 1 8 At 31 December 2010 462 934 329 1,725 Carrying value at 31 December 2010 54 4,127 2,016 504 1,485 8,186 Property, plant and equipment pledged as collateral refer note 35 1 5 6 114 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Property, plant and equipment continued Buildings and Plant and Assets under In millions of US$ Freehold land mining assets equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2009 47 1,698 2,235 713 945 5,638 Additions 1 6 45 17 1,041 1,110 Additions on business acquisitions as restated 5 958 136 41 40 1,180 Change in asset retirement costs 26 8 34 Transfers 248 378 79 705 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 7 7 Disposals 22 9 11 11 53 Exchange differences 9 305 418 134 177 1,043 At 31 December 2009 as restated 44 2,609 2,375 705 1,126 6,859 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2009 366 714 276 1,356 Disposals 4 19 10 33 Depreciation charge 75 177 62 314 Exchange differences 70 135 53 258 At 31 December 2009 367 737 275 1,379 Carrying value at 31 December 2009 as restated 44 2,242 1,638 430 1,126 5,480 Carrying value at 31 December 2009 as previously reported 44 2,214 1,648 438 1,126 5,470 Property, plant and equipment pledged as collateral refer note 35 45 6 51 Additions to assets under construction included US$nil of capitalised borrowing costs 2009: US$2 million.
The average capitalisation rate was nil for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: 1.0%.
During the year, there was no impairment charge with respect to property, plant and equipment 2009: US$nil.
As at 1 January 2009, transmission facilities, with a net book value of US$220 million, have been reclassified from plant and equipment to buildings and mining assets to reflect their technical specifications more appropriately.
There has been no change in useful economic lives of the reclassified assets.
Goodwill and intangible assets Intangible In millions of US$ Note Goodwill assets Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2009 486 9 495 Acquisitions through business combinations 203 203 Additions 3 3 Exchange differences 91 91 Carrying amount at 31 December 2009 as previously reported 598 12 610 Restatement to acquisitions through business combinations 6 31 31 Carrying amount at 31 December 2009 as restated 567 12 579 Acquisitions through business combinations 6 766 766 Additions 12 12 Amortisation 1 1 Exchange differences 12 12 Carrying amount at 31 December 2010 1,345 23 1,368 The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units as follows: As at 31 December 2009 In millions of US$ 2010 As restated Ferroalloys Division 226 225 Iron Ore Division 687 144 Alumina and Aluminium Division 4 3 Other Non-ferrous Division 401 169 Energy Division 27 26 Total carrying amount of goodwill 1,345 567 Goodwill is allocated to the Cash Generating Unit CGU expected to benefit from the business combination.
Typically this is in accordance with the Groups operating segments.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115 18.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with the policy disclosed in note 1.
As at 31 December 2010, and 31 December 2009 there is no impairment of goodwill refer note 2 and below.
Sensitivity of recoverable amounts Management believes that, currently, there are no reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions that would lead goodwill to be impaired for the majority of its businesses.
The exception is the CGU in the Other Non-ferrous division, as described below.
At the end of 2010, the analysis of recoverable amounts for the Boss Mining group resulted in headroom that necessitated a review of sensitivities to the main assumptions used.
The impairment test for this CGU is particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, discount rate and operating costs.
As indicated in note 6, the goodwill balance in CAMEC of which Boss mining is a subsidiary is primarily the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights.
For the purposes of testing this goodwill for impairment, any of the related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition that remain at the balance sheet date are treated as part of the CGU.
Whilst the directors remain confident in the assumptions used in the recoverable amount computations, adverse changes in assumptions as described below could result in impairment charges.
Change in the key assumption which would Value assigned to result in the recoverable amount the key assumption equalling the carrying value % Excess of recoverable amount over Commodity Discount Operating Commodity Discount Operating 1 1 carrying value prices rate costs prices rate costs 2010 US$m US$000 t nominal US$000 t Boss Mining group 165 Cu: 6.28.7 13.01% Years 1-2: 5.37.1 4.4% 26.4% 5.2% Co: 30.942.0 Thereafter: 3.44.1 1 Including foreign exchange rate.
The excess of recoverable amount over the carrying value was US$165 million.
One of the assumptions used in the calculation of the recoverable amount relates to the quantity of available reserves and resources.
The Group is in an early stage of exploration and has not yet completed an overall evaluation of reserves and resources by an appropriate qualified person.
The assumption therefore represents managements expectations at the time of completing impairment testing, based on available historical information and some preliminary drilling.
Once the Group completes the evaluation exercise, the quantity of reserves and resources of their properties could be significantly different.
The commodity prices used in the impairment review are managements estimates over the first five years of the forecasted period, and they are not significantly different from the available analyst forecasts.
The long-term price after year 2015 remains fixed at US$6,200 per tonne for copper and US$30,900 per tonne for cobalt till the end of the forecasted period which is year 2027.
Operating cost assumptions are based on managements best estimate at the date of impairment testing of the costs to be incurred, which correlate with the production volumes stated in long-term mine plans.
Operating costs in the above table are presented on a combined basis for copper and cobalt.
Investments in joint ventures and associates As at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, investments in joint ventures and associates consisted of the following: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Carrying Carrying value, value, Associate millions millions Investee Joint venture Country of incorporation Principal activities of US$ Ownership of US$ Ownership Shubarkol Komir JSC Associate Kazakhstan Semi-coke thermal 210 25.0% 204 25.0% coal production Earth Centre Investments Associate Namibia Property investment 50.0% 50.0% 1 Pty Limited Socit Minire fide Kabolela Associate Democratic Republic Mineral exploration 75 50.0% 2 et Kipese Sprl SMKK of Congo Camrose Resources Limited Joint venture British Virgin Islands Development of 178 50.5% copper and cobalt deposits Taurus Gold Limited Joint venture British Virgin Islands Development of 5 38.6% gold deposits 2 Bahia Minerals BV BMBV Joint venture Netherlands Development of iron 336 50.0% ore deposit Total 393 615 1 The financial reporting date of Earth Centre Investments Pty Limited is 31 March.
Whilst this is different to the Groups reporting date, financial information was obtained at 31 December in order to report on a consistent basis with the Groups reporting date.
2 The Groups interest in these entities increased during the year and they are now subsidiaries.
116 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Movements in the carrying value of the investments in associates are set out in the following table: In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Carrying value at 1 January 279 Acquisitions a 198 Acquisition of outstanding interests in associates b 75 Dividends 6 Share of profit of associates 11 6 Acquisition of SMKK 6 75 Exchange differences 1 At 31 December 210 279 Movements in the carrying value of the investments in joint ventures are set out in the following table: In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Carrying value at 1 January 336 313 Acquisitions a 185 Debt to equity swap c 27 Share of profit of joint ventures 2 25 Acquisition of BMBV 6 367 Exchange differences 2 At 31 December 183 336 a Acquisitions Camrose Resources Limited Camrose In August 2010, the Group purchased 50.5% of the issued share capital of Camrose and formed the Camrose joint venture.
The interest in Camrose was purchased from Cerida, Silvertide Global Limited and Zanette Limited, which are owned by the Gertler Family Trust.
Camroses primary assets, held through its subsidiaries, are high quality copper and cobalt exploitation licences located in the DRC.
The consideration for the acquisition was US$175 million.
The Group paid US$50 million in cash and issued promissory notes totalling US$125 million which mature between 9 months and 24 months refer to note 27.
As part of the acquisition, the Group provided Camrose with a US$400 million shareholder loan facility.
The loan has been made available to Camrose for the purposes of satisfying existing payment obligations on the part of the Highwind Group as defined below, repaying committed loans previously undertaken by Camrose, funding working capital, commencing feasibility studies, as well as mine planning and development.
The Group also provided a guarantee to secure repayment of US$155 million by Cerida of outstanding debt.
Camrose, through its subsidiaries, primarily holds interests in five copper and cobalt exploitation licences situated in the DRC by way of: 45,400,000 common shares of Africo Resources Limited Africo, representing approximately 64% of the issued share capital of Africo, which is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Africo owns a 75% interest in the exploitation licence for the Kalukundi property in the Kolwezi District of Katanga Province in the southeast of the DRC.
The remaining 25% is owned by Gcamines: A 56% indirect interest in La Congolaise fide Mines et fide Dveloppement Comide Sprl Comide of which Gcamines holds a 25% interest in Comide.
Comide holds the exploitation licences for Kii, Mashitu and Pangalume, which are contiguous to Africos Kalukundi property: and The entire share capital of Highwind Properties Limited, Pareas Limited, Interim Holdings Limited and Blue Narcissus Limited together, the Highwind Group.
Under the terms of a joint venture agreement dated 7 January 2010, between the Highwind Group, the DRC government, Gcamines and Simco Sprl, an entity associated with Gcamines, the Highwind Group holds a 70% interest in Treatment of Kingamyambo Tailings Company Metalkol which owns the tailings exploitation licence PER 652 covering the Kolwezi Tailings Site otherwise known as the Kingamyambo Musonoi Tailings, otherwise known as Kolwezi Mine Tailings KMT, a license site located in the Kolwezi District of Katanga Province in the southeast of the DRC.
Development of the site is subject to feasibility studies being completed.
Metalkol has not acquired any infrastructure or equipment at the Kolwezi Tailings Site.
The acquisition is complementary to the Groups existing operations in the DRC.
The Camrose assets held by Camrose and its subsidiaries are contiguous to the Groups existing assets held in the DRC.
These proximate homogenous ore bodies have the potential to share power allocation and logistics capacity, with the ability to reduce mining costs through the optimisation of mining methods and enhanced scale of processing facilities.
The Group has a 50.5% interest in Camrose and exercises day-to-day operational control.
This is accounted for as a joint venture due to certain reserved matters in the shareholders agreement governing this relationship.
The Highwind Group are co-defendants in an action filed by Congo Mineral Developments Limited.
Further detail can be found in note 36.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117 19.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Shubarkol Komir Joint Stock Company Shubarkol On 16 February 2009 the Group acquired a 25% interest in Shubarkol, a major semi-coke and thermal coal producer incorporated in Kazakhstan, for a cash consideration of US$200 million.
Shubarkol is majority owned by Eurasian Finance-Industrial Company JSC EFIC, a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
In connection with the acquisition, the Group has entered into an off-take agreement with Shubarkol, secured a seat on Shubarkols Board and entered into a shareholders agreement with EFIC.
In addition the Group has a right of first refusal subject to the pre-emption right of the Republic of Kazakhstan to purchase the subsurface user rights, combined with a call option, over all or part of the remaining shares in Shubarkol held by EFIC.
The call option is exercisable at the Groups discretion at any time until 31 January 2011 which, if exercised will be subject to required regulatory approvals having been obtained and is expected to be subject to the approval of the Groups shareholders.
The price payable on any exercise of the call option is the aggregate value of the shares to be transferred, assuming Shubarkol has a total value of US$800 million on a fully diluted basis, less any net debt at the time of the transfer.
At 31 December 2010, the fair value of this option was US$nil.
The call option is subject to the approvals noted above and the Republic of Kazakhstan has the pre-emptive right to purchase the subsurface user rights.
As a result, it is not readily exercisable or convertible, therefore, the possession of the call option does not contribute to control over Shubarkol.
Consequently, the Group has accounted for Shubarkol as an associate.
On 31 January 2011, the Group announced the extension of the call option for US$nil consideration by up to 12 months, to 31 January 2012.
All other significant terms of the call option remained unchanged as detailed in note 39. b Acquisitions of outstanding interests in associates Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK and Earth Centre Investments Pty Limited were acquired on 9 November 2009 as part of the CAMEC acquisition.
While the Group legally held a 50% interest in SMKK and Earth Centre Investments Pty Limited, both investments were deemed associates as the Group could only influence, rather than control, the decision-making processes of both entities.
In June 2010, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of SMKK.
c Debt to equity swap In January 2010, the Group converted a US$27 million loan to Bahia Minerals BV BMBV into an equity investment in BMBV with no increase in the Groups percentage interest.
In September 2010, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of BMBV.
Summary financial information Summary financial information for the associates for the years ended and as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, not adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group, is as follows: Associates In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Total assets 193 132 Total liabilities 115 70 Net assets 78 62 Total revenue 138 104 Net profit 42 24 Summary financial information for the joint ventures for the years ended and as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group, is as follows: Joint ventures In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Non-current assets 46 44 Current assets 52 75 Non-current liabilities 126 58 Current liabilities 3 70 Non-controlling interests 6 Net liabilities 25 9 Income 23 39 Expenses 22 14 Other comprehensive expense 2 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Total comprehensive income 2 23 1 Includes the Groups shares of total comprehensive income arising prior to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of BMBV and the Groups share of total comprehensive expense of Camrose.
The Groups share of capital commitments of joint ventures in respect of property, plant and equipment was US$4 million 2009: US$3 million.
118 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Other financial assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Non-current Investments held to maturity a 50 Investments in quoted equity shares b 354 Investments in unquoted options c 25 Other e 11 15 Total non-current financial assets, net 390 65 Current Investments in quoted equity shares d 23 15 Investments in unquoted options c 35 Total current financial assets, net 23 50 Total financial assets, net 413 115 a Investments held to maturity comprise US dollar denominated Euro Medium Term Notes, due to mature in January 2011, these were early redeemed in 2010.
These notes were issued by HSBC bank during 2009, with a coupon of three months US dollar LIBOR plus 0.48%.
b Non-current investments in quoted equity shares comprise the Groups 14.35% interest in Northam Platinum Limited Northam, a major South African platinum producer.
The purchase consideration paid was US$345 million plus total transaction costs of US$8 million.
During 2010 a US$1 million gain has been recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of this investment.
This investment is being held as an available for sale non-current asset as it is intended to be held for longer than one year and is considered to be strategic in nature.
c Investments in unquoted options comprise the following: Non-current With the Bahia Minerals BV acquisition the Group acquired an option to purchase land contiguous to the Bahia project licence areas.
The option expires in January 2012 and is held at cost.
Current During the year an option held by the Group as at 31 December 2009 to acquire the remaining 50% of SMKK was exercised.
For further details refer to note 6.
During the year an option held by the Group as at 31 December 2009 to acquire a 70% interest in Masalskoe GOK LLP lapsed.
The US$10 million in relation to this asset was transferred to current other receivables because the Group believes it will recover this amount in the future.
For further details refer to note 5. d Investments in listed equity shares represent short-term available-for-sale equity securities.
In 2010, a US$8 million gain 2009: US$6 million gain has been recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the short-term available-for-sale equity securities.
e Other non-current financial assets comprise US$11 million of other related party non-current financial assets 2009: US$4 million.
For further details refer to note 5.
In 2009 other non-current financial assets also comprised a US$11 million deposit with Industrial and Commercial Bank of China as cash collateral for the Chinese renminbi working capital facility for Xinjiang ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd.
This balance is now receivable within one year and is classified as restricted cash within trade and other receivables.
All changes in fair value of financial assets are attributable to changes in market conditions.
Financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 South African rand 354 US dollar 26 99 Canadian dollar 20 12 Kazakhstani tenge 10 4 British pound 3 Total financial assets 413 115 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119 21.
Loans receivable As at 31 December 2009 1 In millions of US$ Note 2010 As restated Non-current Loans receivable from related parties 5 96 63 Loans receivable 12 95 Total non-current loans receivable 108 158 Current Loans receivable from related parties 5 6 2 Loans receivable 2 35 Total current loans receivable 8 37 Total loans receivable 116 195 1 Details of prior year restatement are set out in note 6.
The Groups loans mature as follows: 2009 In millions of US$ 2010 As restated Less than 1 year 8 37 Between 1 and 5 years 20 137 Greater than 5 years 88 21 Total loans receivable 116 195 The Groups loans receivable are denominated in currencies as follows: 2009 In millions of US$ 2010 As restated US dollar 92 148 Kazakhstani tenge 23 11 Russian rouble 1 1 British pound 35 Total loans receivable 116 195 The effective interest rates at balance sheet date for interest bearing loans receivable were as follows: Effective interest rate As at 31 December 2009 In millions of US$ Loan currency Maturity 2010 2009 2010 As restated Non-current Loans receivable from related parties US$ 2020 8% n a 84 Loans receivable from related parties US$ 2014 2% n a 5 Loans receivable from related parties KZT Various 12% 12% 4 2 Loans receivable from related parties US$ 2015 LIBOR 3% n a 3 Total related party 96 2 Loans receivable KZT Various 110% 110% 8 7 Loans receivable US$ 2011 n a LIBOR 4.5% 40 Loans receivable GBP Various n a LIBOR 2% 35 Loans receivables non-interest bearing US$ Various 4 74 Total third party 12 156 Total non-current loans receivable 108 158 Current Loans receivable from related parties KZT Various 12% 12% 6 2 Total related party 6 2 Loans receivables non-interest bearing US$ Various 2 35 Total third party 2 35 Less impairment loss provision n a n a Total current loans receivable 8 37 Total loans receivable 116 195 120 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Loans receivable continued The fair value of the Groups loans receivable are as follows: Carrying values Fair values 2009 2009 In millions of US$ 2010 As restated 2010 As restated Loans receivable 14 130 14 130 Loans receivable from related parties 102 65 102 65 Total loans receivable 116 195 116 195 The fair values of current and non-current loans receivable are determined using discounted cash flows at the interest rates prevailing as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
Other non-current assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services 237 147 Long-term inventory 21 22 Other advances and non-current assets 17 12 Other advances and non-current assets related parties 5 6 Total other non-current assets 275 187 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services are for machinery and equipment, in particular vehicles and power generating units required by the plants.
Included in the prepayments are US$15 million 2009: US$2 million of letters of credit with Eurasian Bank JSC pertaining to purchases of property, plant and equipment, refer to note 5.
Long-term inventory consists of the slag dump of chrome ore which was recorded at fair value of US$25 million at the date of the Serov acquisition.
During 2010, US$1 million of the slag dump was processed 2009: US$1 million.
At 31 December 2010, the total balance of the slag dump is US$23 million 2009: US$25 million, of which US$2 million 2009: US$3 million is recorded within current inventory.
Inventories As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Finished goods 266 201 Raw materials 242 214 Consumable stores 175 114 Work-in-progress 136 83 Other inventory 52 3 Less provision for obsolete and slow-moving inventory 9 8 Total inventories 862 607 24.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Trade receivables 567 487 Trade receivables from related parties 5 3 Term deposits 36 17 Term deposits with related parties 5 18 109 Letters of credit with related parties 5 8 14 Restricted cash 58 54 Other receivables 15 27 Other amounts due from related parties 5 22 25 Less impairment loss provision 11 14 Total financial assets 713 722 VAT recoverable 134 115 Prepaid expenses 66 37 Advances to suppliers 43 64 Income tax prepayment 7 13 Prepaid expenses to related parties 5 3 6 Advances to related parties 5 3 2 Less impairment loss provision 1 Total non-financial assets 255 237 Total trade and other receivables 968 959 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121 24.
Trade and other receivables continued The fair value of trade and other receivables financial assets approximates their carrying value.
As at 31 December 2010, trade and other receivables financial assets of US$42 million 2009: US$36 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The overdue analysis of these receivables is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Current and not impaired 671 686 Less than 3 months overdue 33 28 Between 3 to 6 months overdue 1 3 Between 6 to 12 months overdue 7 2 Over 12 months overdue 1 3 Total past due but not impaired 42 36 Individually determined to be impaired gross 11 14 Total individually impaired 11 14 Total trade and other receivables financial assets 724 736 Less impairment loss provision 11 14 Total trade and other receivables financial assets net 713 722 Movements of the impairment provision of trade and other receivables financial assets during the year are as follows: In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Balance as at 1 January 14 15 Impairment loss recognised in income statement 3 3 Unused amounts reversed 6 6 Acquisition of subsidiary 6 Amounts written off as uncollectable 1 Exchange differences 3 Balance as at 31 December 11 14 The trade and other receivables financial assets are denominated in various currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 US dollar 588 512 Russian rouble 65 67 Kazakhstani tenge 35 58 European euro 12 28 British pound 2 48 Other 11 9 Total 713 722 The interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing trade and other receivables financial assets is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Fixed interest rate 93 169 Floating interest rate 11 11 All other trade and other receivables financial assets are non-interest bearing.
122 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Short-term deposits 1,258 502 Cash at bank and in hand 337 328 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,595 830 The cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 US dollar 1,269 592 Kazakhstani tenge 147 145 Russian rouble 92 63 Brazilian real 36 Swiss franc 20 2 South African rand 15 3 European euro 11 4 British pound 2 21 Other 3 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,595 830 The interest rate profile of the interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Fixed interest rate 497 704 Floating interest rate 1,006 55 All other cash and cash equivalents are non-interest bearing.
Capital and dividends Share capital and share premium Number Ordinary Share issued and shares premium fully paid US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2009 1,287,750,000 257,550 2,999,023 At 31 December 2010 1,287,750,000 257,550 2,999,023 As at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 total authorised capital is 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.20 each.
Of the ordinary shares authorised, 1,287,750,000 have been issued and fully paid with a par value of US$0.20 each and a share premium of US$2.33.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Dividends For the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, the following dividends were declared and paid by the Group: 2010 2009 US cents In millions US cents In millions per share of US$ per share of US$ Prior year final dividend 6 77 19 245 Interim dividend 12.5 161 6 77 Total dividends 238 322 For 2010 the Board recommended a final dividend for 2010 of US 18.0 cents per share, to give a full year dividend of US 30.5 cents per share.
The dividend has not been provided for.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123 27.
Borrowings As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Non-current Bank borrowings 432 52 Term borrowings 3 3 Bonds 14 13 Non-current borrowings third party 449 68 Bank borrowings 384 Term borrowings 500 Promissory notes 73 Non-current borrowings related party 5 957 Total non-current borrowings 1,406 68 Current Bank borrowings 152 351 Term borrowings 3 8 Other financial liabilities 1 Current borrowings third party 155 360 Bank borrowings 16 Term borrowings 5 Promissory notes 50 Current borrowings related party 5 71 Total current borrowings 226 360 Total borrowings 1,632 428 The carrying values and fair values of borrowings are as follows: Carrying values Fair values In millions of US$ 2010 2009 2010 2009 Bank borrowings 984 403 984 403 Term borrowings 511 11 511 11 Promissory notes 123 123 Bonds 14 13 14 13 Other financial liabilities 1 1 Total borrowings 1,632 428 1,632 428 The fair value of borrowings approximates their carrying value, as the impact of discounting is insignificant.
The fair value of borrowings is determined using discounted cash flows at the interest rates prevailing as at the balance sheet date.
The Groups borrowings mature as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Less than 1 year 226 360 Between 1 and 5 years 592 43 After 5 years 814 25 Total borrowings 1,632 428 The Groups borrowings are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 US dollar 1,533 348 European euro 75 46 Kazakhstani tenge 14 14 Chinese renminbi yuan 10 17 British pound 3 Total borrowings 1,632 428 124 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Borrowings continued The effective interest rates at balance sheet date for current and non-current borrowings were as follows: Effective interest rate As at 31 December Borrowing In millions of US$ currency Maturity 2010 2009 2010 2009 Non-current Third party Bank borrowings f US$ 2013 LIBOR 3.37% n a 367 Bank borrowings b EUR 2020 EURIBOR 1.5% n a 33 Bank borrowings b EUR 2020 EURIBOR 0.5% EURIBOR 0.5% 32 42 1 Bank borrowings CNY 2011 n a PBC plus margin 10 Bonds KZT 2013 2 10% 8 10% 14 13 Non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 3 3 Total third party 449 68 Related party Bank borrowings c US$ 2025 4.0% n a 384 Term borrowings g US$ 2020 7.5% n a 500 Promissory notes e US$ 20112012 1.75% n a 73 Total related party 957 Total non-current borrowings 1,406 68 Current Third party Bank borrowings f US$ 2013 LIBOR 3.37% n a 133 Bank borrowings a US$ 2010 n a LIBOR 1.35% 342 Bank borrowings b EUR 2020 EURIBOR 1.5% n a 4 Bank borrowings b EUR 2020 EURIBOR 0.5% EURIBOR 0.5% 4 2 1 Bank borrowings CNY 2011 PBC plus margin n a 10 Bank borrowings CNY 2010 n a 8% 7 Other non-interest bearing Various 4 9 Total third party 155 360 Related party Bank borrowings c US$ 2025 4.0% n a 16 Term borrowings US$ 2011 2.0% n a 1 Promissory notes e US$ 20112012 1.75% n a 50 Non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 4 Total related party 71 Total current borrowings 226 360 Total borrowings 1,632 428 1 The effective interest rate applicable is the Peoples Bank of China PBC official rate plus a margin of 10% of the PBC rate a Structured Trade Finance Facility On 15 December 2006, the Group entered into a US$1,000 million Structured Trade Finance facility.
By a Supplemental Agreement dated 12 April 2007, the facility was increased to US$1,480 million.
The facility was repaid on schedule and as at 31 December 2010 the outstanding balance was US$nil 2009: US$342 million.
b Export Credit Facility On 30 November 2007, the Group entered into an unsecured 32.5 million Export Credit facility ECA facility.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of EURIBOR plus 0.5% per annum and matures on 20 February 2020.
The purpose of the facility is to finance an export contract with Takraf GmbH.
As at 31 December 2010 US$36 million of the facility was drawn down 2009: US$44 million.
On 16 February 2010, the Group entered into a second ECA facility agreement for the amount of 47.5 million.
The facility is a 10 year draw-down facility and bears an interest rate of six month EURIBOR plus 1.5% per annum.
Euler Hermes Kreditversicherungs AG has provided credit insurance to support the facility.
The facility will be used to finance some of the Groups planned capital expenditure.
As at 31 December 2010 US$37 million of the facility was drawn down.
c Development Bank of Kazakhstan Facility On 15 April 2010, the Group announced that it had entered into a loan agreement for the amount of US$400 million with the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
The facility is provided by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan using financing from the State-run Export-Import Bank of China.
The facility is for a 15 year period, bears an interest rate of 4% and is fully drawn as at 31 December 2010.
The loan is secured by a corporate guarantee issued by ENRC PLC and a pledge over 51% of the shares of Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 125 27.
Borrowings continued d Euro Medium Term Notes On 13 May 2010 the Group established a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme for US$3 billion.
Subject to relevant laws and regulations notes can be issued in a variety of forms and for a range of maturity periods.
Proceeds from any issues under the programme may be used for the Groups capital expenditure programme, potential future acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.
There were no issues outstanding under the programme as at 31 December 2010. e Promissory Notes In August 2010, as part of its acquisition of the 50.5% interest in Camrose, the Group issued unsecured promissory notes at nominal value totaling US$125 million which mature between 9 months and 24 months from the date of issue.
As at 31 December 2010, the carrying value of the promissory notes outstanding was US$123 million after discounting at 1.75%.
f Structured Trade Finance Facility On 5 October 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million Structured Trade Finance Facility with a group of international lenders.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.37% and is repayable over 3 years.
As at 31 December 2010 US$500 million of the facility was drawn down.
The facility is secured principally against trade receivables from the Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works OJSC MMK, the associated trade receivable balance as at 31 December 2010 was US$62 million.
g JSC Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna On 30 November 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million facility with the JSC Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of 7.5% per annum and is repayable in 10 years by bullet repayment.
No security has been pledged as part of the agreement and is fully drawn down as at 31 December 2010.
Undrawn Loan Commitments As at 31 December 2010 the Group had no unused credit facilities 2009: nil.
Asset retirement obligations The Group has a legal obligation to complete landfill site restoration during the mining operations and decommission its mining property after its expected closure.
The timing of decommissioning activity is subject to reassessment at the same time as the revision of the Groups proved and probable reserves.
As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Current provision for asset retirement obligations 30 4 1 Non-current provision for asset retirement obligations 92 108 Total provision for asset retirement obligations 96 109 Movements in asset retirement obligations are as follows: Asset Site decommissioning restoration and In millions of US$ Note costs re-vegetation Total As at 1 January 2010 49 60 109 Capitalisation 10 1 11 Acquisition of subsidiary 6 6 Changes in estimate 12 1 13 Transfer 4 4 Production costs 3 4 1 Unwinding of discount 14 2 3 5 Utilisation 2 2 Exchange differences 1 1 As at 31 December 2010 22 74 96 As at 1 January 2009 30 43 73 Capitalisation Acquisition of subsidiary 1 1 Change in estimate 24 16 40 Production costs 4 7 3 Unwinding of discount 14 3 4 7 Utilisation 2 2 Exchange differences 5 8 13 As at 31 December 2009 49 60 109 In accordance with the contracts on subsurface use, the Group makes annual obligatory contributions to form a deposit fund for the closure costs which will take effect upon exhaustion of the mineral deposits at the end of their respective mine lives, which varies between 9 and 48 years.
126 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Asset retirement obligations continued The amount of the provision for asset retirement obligations is determined using the nominal prices effective at the reporting dates by applying the forecasted rate of inflation for the expected period of the life of the mines.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the level of discount and inflation rates.
Principal assumptions made in calculations of asset retirement obligations are presented below: 2010 2009 Kazakhstani Russian African Kazakhstani Russian entities entities entities entities entities Discount rate 7.9% 9.0% 8.1% 6.0% 8.9% Inflation rate 5.1%6.7% 5.8%7.7% 2.1%2.8% 5.6%6.0% 6.2%11.7% The decrease in the asset retirement obligations for the year ended 31 December 2010 was mainly due to the increase in the discount rate for Kazakhstani entities.
Employee benefit obligations The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees in, before, on and after retirement, in accordance with labour union agreements.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations as at 1 January 46 37 Business acquisitions 2 Interest cost 14 2 2 Benefits paid 2 2 Curtailment gains 7 Current service cost 1 2 Actuarial gains losses 9 19 Exchange differences 3 7 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 41 46 Net liability arising from defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 41 46 The present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 2008, 2007 and 2006 was US$37 million, US$52 million and US$48 million, respectively.
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit plan are as follows: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 1 Interest cost 14 2 2 2 Curtailment gains 7 2 Current service cost 1 2 2 Actuarial gains losses 9 19 Income expense recognised in the income statement 6 16 1 The interest cost is recognised in the finance cost line in the income statement 2 The curtailment gains, current service cost and actuarial gains losses are recognised in the following line items in the income statement: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Cost of sales 6 13 General and administrative expenses 2 1 Total income expense 12 8 14 Principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 Discount rate 7.9%9.0% 6.0% Future salary increases 5.0%10.7% 7.0%10.0% Average labour turnover rate of production personnel 4.1%18.7% 6.0%20.0% Average labour turnover rate of administrative personnel 2.4%8.9% 6.0%14.0% Assumptions regarding future mortality are based upon advice in accordance with published statistics and experience.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 127 29.
Employee benefit obligations continued The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date are as follows: 2010 2009 Male 11 11 Female 15 15 The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, is as follows: 2010 2009 Male 12 12 Female 16 16 30.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2009 In millions of US$ Note 2010 As restated Trade payables 197 224 Payable to related parties 5 12 14 Distributions payable 9 7 Deferred Consideration and acquisition related liabilities 6 507 Total financial liabilities 725 245 Advances received from customers 53 54 Accruals relating to employee entitlements 92 88 Asset retirement obligations 28 4 1 Other 65 44 Total non-financial liabilities 214 187 Total trade and other payables 939 432 The fair value of trade and other payables financial liabilities approximates their carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is insignificant.
Other taxes payable As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Mineral extraction tax and other taxes 72 78 VAT payable 29 6 Social taxes 8 6 Total other taxes payable 109 90 Other taxes include property and environmental taxes.
Share-based payments The Group has established a Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP with a view to attracting, retaining and motivating the Executive Directors and selected senior management.
The LTIP share awards are equity settled share based payment transactions which vest on the third anniversary of the grant date subject to achievement of performance targets.
The LTIP performance target is based on the Groups total shareholder return, ranked against a comparator group of other international mining companies over a three year period.
Further information on the LTIP is disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 73 to 78.
In circumstances where an employee ceases to be employed prior to the vesting date for reasons except dismissal, the Board has the discretion to allow the employees award to vest to the extent they deem the performance target would have been satisfied if prorated to the date of cessation of employment.
128 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued Details of grants and assumptions in the calculation of fair value under the LTIP are set out in the table below: Grant 1 Grant 2 Grant 3 Grant date 07 May 2008 20 April 2009 26 April 2010 Fair value per share in British pounds 8.47 3.97 9.23 Share price at grant date in British pounds 12.10 5.489 12.08 1 Estimated average volatility 42% 70% 72% 2 Estimated dividend yield 1.01% 3.82% 2.23% 3 Risk free interest rate 2.55% 1.27% 1.67% Exercise price in British pounds Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 1 The Groups estimated share price volatility is based on the historical average annualised volatility of the comparator group of mining companies and reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the awards is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The increase in volatility for Grant 2 and Grant 3 was due to the changes in market conditions over historical periods similar to the life of the awards.
2 The estimated dividend yields for Grant 2 and Grant 3 were based on the Groups historical dividend payments.
For Grant 1, the expected dividend yield was deemed to be average of comparator group of mining companies as the Group had not paid any dividends prior to grant date of Grant 1.
3 The risk-free interest rate is a government bond rate over a period similar to the life of the awards.
The increase in risk-free rate in 2010 compared to 2009 was due to market fluctuations.
The estimated fair value of each share granted under the LTIP is calculated by applying a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
At 31 December 2010 the median benchmark comparator was not met.
As a result Grant 1 of the LTIP will not vest.
Recognition of services received An expense of US$8 million 2009: US$13 million for share-based payments was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2010 within employee benefit expense in the income statement.
During 2010 payments of US$nil 2009: US$3 million were made to LTIP participants.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group may use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange exposure.
Financial risk management is the responsibility of the treasury function which identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The Treasury Policy outlines principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
Credit risk The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
The Group has credit insurance for the majority of its sales.
Credit limits are set by the Group in accordance to limits provided by the Credit Insurance Company.
Credit insurance is no longer available in respect of the Groups Russian customers.
The development of the Groups relationship with its two largest Russian customers, MMK and UC Rusal, is described in the Operating Review.
The Group undertakes rigorous credit control procedures which are closely monitored by the Head of Sales and the Chief Financial Officer.
These procedures are regularly reviewed in light of the limited availability of credit insurance.
As a general rule, for those sales to non-major customers where credit insurance is not available, the Group operates a policy of cash on delivery or letters of credit.
The Group has established relationships with a number of international and domestic banks in the areas in which the Group operates to diversify credit risk.
Individual credit limits are assigned to each counterparty according to an analysis of financial strength or published credit rating.
Limits and exposures to each counterparty are regularly monitored and reported at each Board meeting.
During the year a mixture of bank deposits and liquidity funds were used within the Groups investment portfolio to manage credit exposure.
Where possible, our policy is to invest cash and cash equivalents with highly rated banks and with AAA rated liquidity funds.
The Groups Treasury policy prescribes the maximum limits that are available for investment purposes with any individual counterparty.
For operational and investment purposes in Kazakhstan, there are a limited number of counterparties with an independent credit rating.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 129 33.
Financial risk management continued The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk related to the uncollateralised balances to be as follows: As at 31 December 2009 In millions of US$ Note 2010 As restated Cash and cash equivalents 25 1,595 830 Trade and other receivables 24 713 722 Other financial assets 20 413 115 Loans receivable 21 116 195 Total maximum credit risk exposure 2,837 1,862 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans receivable and other financial assets by geographic region as at 31 December are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 Cash and cash Trade and other Other financial Loans In millions of US$ equivalents receivables assets receivable Eurasia 521 239 11 23 Europe and Middle East 1,007 145 3 1 Asia Pacific 2 209 Africa 24 63 354 91 Rest of the World 41 57 45 1 Total 1,595 713 413 116 Year ended 31 December 2009 As restated Cash and cash Trade and other Other financial Loans In millions of US$ equivalents receivables assets receivable Eurasia 668 278 14 27 Europe and Middle East 146 159 61 Asia Pacific 241 Africa 14 22 69 Rest of the World 2 22 40 99 Total 830 722 115 195 In 2010 the top 10 customers as a proportion of the outstanding balance of the Groups trade and other receivables accounted for 42% 2009: 65%.
Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment review is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not past due by up to 60 days.
Foreign currency risk The majority of the Groups production costs are denominated in Kazakhstani tenge KZT and Russian roubles RUB while sales are denominated in US dollars US$.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risk that movements in exchange rates will affect both its operating profit and cash flows.
The Groups foreign currency exposure arises from: Highly probable forecast transactions sales purchases denominated in foreign currencies: and Monetary items mainly intercompany receivables, payables and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Foreign currency risks in 2009 were partially mitigated through forward foreign exchange contracts which were deemed to be effective hedges on highly probable forecast transactions that achieve an average exchange rate.
All forward exchange contracts expired at 31 December 2009.
130 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial risk management continued The table below summarises the foreign currency exposure on the net monetary position of each Group entity against its respective functional currency, expressed in the Groups presentational currency.
In millions of US$ KZT US$ RUB EUR GBP SA Rand Other At 31 December 2010 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 1,167 17 28 Marketing and holding entities US$ n a 22 3 354 43 Marketing Russian entities RUB 23 n a UK management entities GBP 85 n a Russian Serov entities RUB n a African entities various 32 15 1 20 Brazilian entities BRL Chinese entities CNY 1,027 17 65 4 334 43 At 31 December 2009 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 1,117 178 24 3 Marketing and holding entities US$ 388 n a 10 20 19 8 Marketing Russian entities RUB 66 n a UK management entities GBP 50 n a Russian Serov entities RUB 1 n a African entities various 18 23 Brazilian entities BRL Chinese entities CNY 2 n a 388 982 168 4 1 8 In 2010 and 2009 intercompany balances are included to fully reflect the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk.
The principal exchange rate used for the Kazakhstani tenge and Russian rouble are presented in note 1.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in the Groups most commonly used exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax.
In millions of US$ KZT US$ RUB EUR GBP SA Rand Other At 31 December 2010 Total foreign exchange risk 1,027 17 65 4 334 43 Shift in the US$ exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase decrease in profit equity due to appreciation of US$ 51 1 3 17 2 Increase decrease in profit equity due to depreciation of US$ 51 1 3 17 2 At 31 December 2009 Total foreign exchange risk 388 982 168 4 1 8 Shift in the US$ exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase decrease in profit equity due to appreciation of US$ 19 49 8 1 Increase decrease in profit equity due to depreciation of US$ 19 49 8 1 Devaluation of Kazakhstani tenge The devaluation of the Kazakhstani tenge in early February 2009 gave rise to significant one-off foreign exchange movements on the revaluation of US dollar denominated balances in the Kazakhstani operations, primarily inter-company receivables and loans, and term deposits.
Consequently, the Group recognised net foreign exchange gains of US$210 million and US$104 million included in other operating income note 11 and finance income note 13, respectively, and a foreign exchange loss of US$75 million included in finance cost note 14.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 131 33.
Financial risk management continued Separately, in the Groups balance sheet the devaluation impact on net assets was reflected in a significant one-off reduction of about US$1.3 billion in the currency translation reserve within equity.
Commodity price risk The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of commodities, primarily ferrochrome, chrome ore, iron ore, alumina, aluminium, cobalt and copper.
Historically, the prices of these products have been volatile and have fluctuated widely in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of the global or regional economies and cyclicality in industries that are end users of these products.
Prices may also be affected by government actions, including the imposition of tariffs and import duties, speculative trades, the development of product substitutes or replacements, recycling practices, an increase in capacity or an oversupply of the Groups products in its main markets.
These external factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it difficult to estimate future prices.
A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices would materially and adversely affect the Groups business and the financial results and cash flows of operations.
The Group does not hedge significantly its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in the price of its products.
The table below sets out the sensitivity of the Groups Underlying EBITDA to changes in commodity prices: The 5% reduction in sales price, relative to the average for the year, would reduce Underlying EBITDA by: In millions of US$ 2010 2009 High-carbon ferrochrome 90 55 Chrome ore 10 6 Iron ore 92 53 Alumina 19 16 Aluminium 24 10 1 Cobalt 15 n a 1 Copper 7 n a 1 Commodity price sensitivity for Copper and Cobalt was not presented for 2009 as they formed an insignificant portion of the Groups revenue.
Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
These assets and liabilities are exposed to cash flow interest rate risk or fair value interest rate risk depending on whether they are subject to variable or fixed rates of interest.
The objective of interest rate risk management is to manage and control interest rate risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable interest rate borrowings.
The Groups significant interest bearing assets and liabilities are disclosed in notes 20, 21, 24, 25, and 27.
An increase decrease of 1% in interest rates at the reporting date would have decreased increased profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2010 by US$4 million 2009: US$7 million.
The impact on equity is the same as the impact on income.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign exchange rates, remain constant.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group intends to maintain a capital structure in line with industrys norms and practices which will be achieved over a period of time, taking into account investment opportunities and availability of debt finance.
The Group considers the following balances as a part of its capital management: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2010 2009 Borrowings 27 1,632 428 Share capital and share premium 26 3,257 3,257 1 Reserves 6,515 4,456 Total capital 11,404 8,141 1 Reserves include retained earnings, translation reserve, hedge reserve, and revaluation reserve of financial assets available-for-sale.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to manage its debt level.
132 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The table below summarises the Groups non-derivative financial assets and liabilities which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, translated at balance sheet date exchange rates.
Non-derivative financial assets and liabilities As at 31 December 2010 Total Carrying contractual Less than Between 1 In millions of US$ amount cash flows 1 year and 5 years After 5 years Borrowings 1,632 2,196 274 741 1,181 Trade and other payables 725 725 725 Other non-current liabilities 57 58 58 Cash and cash equivalents 1,595 1,595 1,595 Trade and other receivables 713 713 713 Other financial assets 388 388 23 2 363 Loans receivable 116 193 11 18 164 Net position 398 90 1,343 779 654 As at 31 December 2009 As restated Total Carrying contractual Less than Between 1 In millions of US$ amount cash flows 1 year and 5 years After 5 years Borrowings 428 431 363 43 25 Trade and other payables 245 245 245 Other non-current liabilities 4 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 830 830 830 Trade and other receivables 722 722 722 Other financial assets 80 80 15 61 4 Loans receivable 195 213 37 155 21 Net position 1,150 1,165 996 173 4 Fair value of financial instruments In determining fair value of financial instruments the Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and verify assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date, as well as obtaining fair value measurements from other parties.
For the financial instruments measured on the balance sheet at fair value, the Group has adopted the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1: Quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in the active market is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
These instruments are included in Level 1.
As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, the Groups available-for-sale financial assets note 20 are included in Level 1 of the hierarchy.
As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, the Group did not hold financial instruments that are included in Level 2 or 3 of the hierarchy.
The fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost is based on expected cash flows discounted at prevailing interest rates for new instruments with similar credit risk and maturity.
The investments in unquoted options, disclosed in note 20, are carried at cost, because the fair value can not be reliably measured.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 133 34.
Auditors remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor as detailed below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 1.4 1.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.1 3.1 Other services pursuant to legislation interim review 0.4 0.4 Taxation 0.9 1.0 Other 0.7 0.3 Total 6.5 6.2 35.
Commitments Capital expenditure commitments As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Property, plant and equipment 312 268 Operating leases The table below sets out minimum payments for aggregate future minimum lease payments: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Less than 1 year 6 27 Between 1 and 5 years 32 37 After 5 years 33 38 Total 71 102 Rental expenses relating to the operating leases of mining facilities and administrative facilities are recognised in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses respectively within the income statement.
Assets pledged and restricted The Group has the following assets pledged as collateral: As at 31 December 2010 2009 Asset Related Asset Related In millions of US$ Note pledged liability pledged liability Property, plant and equipment 17 6 3 51 15 Long-term deposits and restricted cash 5,20 11 8 15 23 1 Restricted cash 24 58 54 119 352 } } Accounts receivable 27 62 214 Total assets pledged and restricted 137 130 334 390 1 Restricted cash represents US$11 million funds allocated for repayment of the Structured Trade Finance facility 2009: US$11 million, along with US$47 million relating to the payment to Steel do Brazil as a part of MIBA MPB acquisition.
Contingencies Pending litigation The Highwind Group, subsidiaries of ENRCs Camrose joint venture, are co-defendants in an action filed on 13 September 2010 in the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court of the British Virgin Islands by Congo Mineral Developments Limited CMD, a subsidiary of First Quantum Minerals Limited FQM, in relation to the Highwind Groups interest in the tailings exploitation licence PER 652 covering the Kolwezi Tailings Site.
The claim was served on the Highwind Group on 3 December 2010.
The total amount claimed by Congo Mineral Developments Limited is an estimated US$2 billion.
The Highwind Group has applied for summary judgement and or strike out of the claim.
The process of the application for summary judgement and or strike out, including any appeals, could take over 2 years to complete.
We consider that the application for summary judgement and or strike out has good prospects of success.
However, should the Highwind Group ultimately be unsuccessful in obtaining summary judgement or having the claim struck out, the Highwind Group intends to defend its position vigorously.
Taxation At the end of 2009, the Kazakhstan tax authorities issued a transfer pricing assessment of US$126 million on SSGPO in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Groups management are confident that the company was fully compliant with the transfer pricing legislation prevailing at the time, have appealed against the assessment, and are defending the adopted filing position.
No provision against additional tax is considered to be necessary.
The Kazakhstan tax authorities are currently considering the Groups appeal against the assessment.
134 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
Underlying EBIT, EBITDA and EBITDA margin Year ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2010 2009 Profit for the year 2,197 1,062 Adjustments for: Finance cost 101 157 Income tax expense 780 377 1 Acquisition related costs 73 2 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 13 31 Finance income 57 191 Gain arising related to the acquisition of BMBV note 6 298 Foreign exchange gain resulting from devaluation of Kazakhstani tenge 210 Underlying EBIT 2,783 1,164 Add back: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 411 298 3 Underlying EBITDA 3,194 1,462 Divide by: Revenue 6,605 3,831 4 Underlying EBITDA Margin 48.4% 38.2% 1 Following the adoption of IFRS 3 Revised acquisition related costs are now expensed.
2 Joint ventures and associates for 2009 and 2010 include BML joint venture from 19 May 2009 to 21 September 2010, Shubarkol associate from 16 February 2009, Earth Centre Investments Pty associate from 9 November 2009, SMKK associate from 9 November 2009 until 22 June 2010, Camrose joint venture from 20 August 2010 and Taurus joint venture from 14 December 2010.
3 Underlying EBITDA: Profit before finance income, finance cost, income tax expense, depreciation, amortisation and impairment, net gains and losses on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting, share of profit or loss of joint ventures and associates, gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture, acquisition related costs and the impact of the devaluation of the Kazakhstani tenge in 2009.
4 Underlying EBITDA margin: Underlying EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
Return on capital employed Year ended 31 December 2009 In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2010 As restated Underlying EBIT 2,783 1,164 Divide by: 1 Capital employed weighted average Borrowings 906 580 Equity including non-controlling interests 8,931 7,839 Total capital employed weighted average 9,837 8,419 Return on capital employed 28.3% 13.8% 1 The capital employed used in this calculation is a three point average based on the opening and closing balance sheet for each year plus the half year interim balance sheet.
Gearing Year ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2010 2009 Net debt cash 37 402 Divide by: Net debt cash 37 402 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company 9,772 7,713 9,809 7,311 Gearing 0.4% 5.5% ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 135 37.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP measures continued 4.
Like-for-like reconciliation Year ended 31 December 2010 vs. 2009 In millions of US$ 2010 2009 US$ million % Like-for-like revenue Revenue 6,605 3,831 2,774 72.4% Less: 1 Other Non-ferrous Division revenue 412 41 African logistics entity 71 14 Other entities acquired during 2010 and 2009 5 Like-for-like revenue 6,117 3,776 2,341 62.0% Like-for-like cost of sales Cost of sales 2,847 1,947 900 46.2% Less: 1 Other Non-ferrous Division cost of sales 317 39 African logistics entity 79 1 Other entities acquired during 2010 and 2009 3 Like-for-like cost of sales 2,448 1,907 541 28.4% Like-for-like total costs Total costs Cost of sales 2,847 1,947 Distribution costs 485 366 General and administrative expenses 555 359 Net other operating expense income 8 215 Total costs 3,895 2,457 1,438 58.5% Less: Foreign exchange gain resulting from devaluation of Kazakhstani tenge 210 2 Acquisition related costs 73 1 Other Non-ferrous Division total costs 405 41 African logistics entity 88 14 Other entities acquired during 2010 and 2009 20 Like-for-like total costs 3,309 2,612 697 26.7% 1 Other non-ferrous division amounts comprise CAMEC in 2009 and 2010, Chambishi, Comit Resources FZE and SMKK in 2010.
Please refer to note 6 for acquisitions made during 2009 and 2010.
2 Following the adoption of IFRS 3 Revised acquisition related costs are now expensed.
Gross available funds, net available funds and net cash Year ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Gross available funds Cash and cash equivalents 1,595 830 Term deposits included in trade and other receivables 54 126 Other financial assets 413 115 Less: Investment in quoted equity shares non-current 354 Investment in unquoted options 25 35 Other restricted financial assets 11 15 Total gross available funds 1,672 1,021 Borrowings current 226 360 Borrowings non-current 1,406 68 Total net available funds 40 593 Net cash Cash and cash equivalents 1,595 830 Borrowings current 226 360 Borrowings non-current 1,406 68 Total net debt cash 37 402 136 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Principal subsidiaries The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in the Annual Report.
Therefore, as permitted by section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, we disclose below only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
A full list is available at Companies House in the United Kingdom, and is annexed to the Companys annual return.
As at 31 December 2010 Proportion of Proportion of Proportion of Ordinary Ordinary Preference Shares held Shares held Shares held Subsidiary Principal activity Country of incorporation by Parent by the Group by the Group Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC 'AoK' Mining and processing of raw Kazakhstan 98.12 82.81 materials Serov Ferroalloy Plant JSC Metals Processing Russian Federation 99.44 Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd Metals Processing China 50.00 Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC 'KAS' Metals Processing Kazakhstan 100.00 Chambishi Metals PLC Metals Processing Zambia 90.00 TNC Kazchrome JSC 'Kazchrome' Mining Kazakhstan 99.56 86.52 SSGPO JSC 'SSGPO' Mining Kazakhstan 100.00 81.47 Zhairemsky GOK JSC Mining Kazakhstan 100.00 37.18 Boss Mining Sprl Mining DR Congo 67.82 Bahia Minerao Ltda Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Minerao Minas Bahia SA 'MIBA' Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Minerao Peixe Bravo SA 'MPB' Mineral Exploration Brazil 51.00 Societe Miniere fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK Mineral Exploration DR Congo 100.00 ENRC Mozambique Limitada Mineral Exploration Mozambique 96.88 Todal Mining Pvt Limited Mineral Exploration Zimbabwe 58.13 Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC 'EEC' Power Generation Kazakhstan 100.00 76.67 Corporate Fund ENRC Komek Charity Kazakhstan 100.00 MEK Transsystema LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 TransCom LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Logistics LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 Sabot Management Holdings Limited Transportation Seychelles 96.88 Sabot Holdings Malawi Limited Transportation Malawi 96.88 Sabot Holdings SA Pty Limited Transportation South Africa 96.88 Sabot Holdings Zambia Limited Transportation Zambia 96.88 ENRC Marketing AG Sales & Marketing Switzerland 100.00 ENRC Marketing Africa AG Sales & Marketing Africa 100.00 ENRC Marketing LLP Sales & Marketing Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Marketing LLC Sales & Marketing Russian Federation 100.00 Bahia Minerals BV Intermediate Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 Enya Holdings BV Intermediate Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 ENRC Kazakhstan LLP Holding Company Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC NV Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 ENRC Africa Holdings Limited Holding Company United Kingdom 96.88 ENRC Africa BV Holding Company United Kingdom 100.00 ENRC Finance Limited Treasury & Holding Company United Kingdom 100.00 ENRC Management UK Limited Group Managing Company United Kingdom 100.00 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 137 39.
Events after the balance sheet date Shubarkol Call Option Extension On 31 January 2011, the Group announced the extension of a call option the Call Option originally granted in conjunction with the acquisition of a 25% interest in Shubarkol Komir JSC Shubarkol in February 2009 the Call Option Extension.
The Call Option gives the Group the right to acquire the outstanding 75% of the ordinary shares of Shubarkol for a consideration of some US$600 million.
The Call Option Extension, which has been granted for nil consideration, extends the expiry date of the Call Option by up to 12 months, to 31 January 2012.
All other significant terms of the Call Option are unchanged.
Shubarkol, one of Kazakhstans largest thermal coal producers, is majority owned by Eurasian Industrial Company JSC EIC, a private company beneficially wholly owned by the Founder Shareholders of the Group.
Funding arrangements On 7 February 2011, the Group entered into an Export Credit Facility agreement for the amount of 185 million.
The facility is an 11-year draw-down facility and bears an interest rate of six-month EURIBOR plus a margin of 1.2%.
The facility will be used to finance some of the Groups capital expenditure programme.
On 18 March 2011, the Group signed an unsecured senior US$500 million revolving credit facility which will significantly enhance the Groups headroom and provide significant liquidity to the Groups business operations.
2010 Final Dividend For 2010 the Board has recommended a final dividend of US 18.0 cents per share, amounting to US$232 million, to be paid on 15 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 April 2011.
138 Unlocking Resources Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Consolidated financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Charles Joseland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 18 April 2011 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139 Parent Company Balance Sheet Company number: 6023510 As at 31 December In millions of US$ Notes 2010 2009 Fixed assets Investments 5 1,224 1,216 Current assets Amount owed by ENRC Finance Limited 6 2,855 2,652 Accrued interest receivable 129 69 Other debtors 1 Total current assets 2,984 2,722 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Amount owed to ENRC Management UK Limited 7 41 44 Accrued interest payable 1 Other creditors 2 Total creditors amounts falling due within one year 42 46 Net current assets 2,942 2,676 Total assets less current liabilities 4,166 3,892 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Term borrowings 8 500 Net assets 3,666 3,892 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 9 258 258 Share premium account 10 2,999 2,999 Other reserves 10 21 13 Profit and loss account 10 388 622 Total shareholders funds 10 3,666 3,892 As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent companys profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 139 to 143 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 April 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Felix Vulis Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 140 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation These financial statements represent the individual parent company.
These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
The Directors have reviewed the Companys existing accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with last year.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
The functional and presentation currency of the Company is US dollars.
b Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet at cost less provisions for impairment.
Investments are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds the higher of net realisable value and the discounted future earnings from the investment.
c Financial assets and liabilities Amounts owed by group companies, which are interest bearing, are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amounts owed to group companies and term borrowings, which are interest and non-interest bearing, are initially recorded at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance income and expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
d Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
e Taxation including deferred tax Current tax in respect of the taxable profit or loss for a period is provided using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised in respect of all timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on an undiscounted basis.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the profit and loss account for the period except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or a loss recognised directly in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, in which case tax attributable to that gain or loss is also recognised directly in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
f Share-based payments The Company has adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP designed to reward senior management employees of the Group for achieving the Groups strategic objectives and provide an appropriate level of long term performance related pay.
Each year, participants will receive conditional awards of shares in the Company which will normally vest three years after they are awarded.
This is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, measured over a three-year performance period and continued service.
The share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the Companys financial statements and is measured at fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant.
The fair value was calculated by applying a Monte Carlo model.
In accordance with FRS 20, where a parent company grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of a subsidiary, and such share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the parent, the subsidiary is required to record an expense for such compensation with a corresponding increase recognised in equity as a contribution from the parent.
Consequently, in the financial statements of the parent, the Company is required to record an addition to the Companys investment in subsidiaries, with a corresponding increase recognised in other reserves, based on the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Failure to vest as a result of market conditions is not reversed.
Further details on the share-based payments can be found in the Directors remuneration report section of this Annual Report and notes to the consolidated financial statements.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 141 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Change in accounting policy The Company has changed its accounting policy when the Amendment to FRS 20, Share-based payment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions became effective.
The amendment clarifies the scope of FRS 20 by incorporating the requirements of UITF 41 Scope of FRS 20 and UITF 44 Group and treasury share transactions, and sets out the accounting for Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions in an entitys individual financial statements.
Where an entity receives goods or services but has no obligation to settle the share-based payment transaction or the awards granted are in the entitys own equity instruments it would treat the transaction as an equity-settled share-based payment.
The change in accounting policy has no direct impact on the accounting previously adopted by the Company.
g Dividends Dividends payable are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Cash flow statement, related party and financial instruments disclosures The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from presenting financial instruments disclosures under the terms of FRS 29.
The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement as a consolidated cash flow statement has been presented in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
In accordance with exemptions under FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries, as the Companys financial statements are presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Directors report, Directors emoluments and employee information The Directors report and the Directors Responsibilities Statement have been set out on pages 62 to 64 and page 79.
The Company had 3 employees in 2010 2009: 2 employees, who were also Directors of the Company.
Emoluments of all the Directors are borne by ENRC Management UK Limited.
Full details of the remuneration and share interests of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2010 are set out in the Directors remuneration report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Taxation including deferred tax The Company has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences of US$4 million 2009: US$3 million.
A change in the UK main corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% was enacted on 20 July 2010 and will be effective from 1 April 2011 as further detailed at note 15 to the Consolidated financial statements.
On the basis that the Company currently does not have any recognised deferred tax assets or liabilities, no remeasurement of these balances is necessary.
Investments At 31 December 2010, the Company held the following principal investments: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Country of incorporation 2010 2009 Cost and net book value ENRC Finance Limited United Kingdom 1,200 1,200 ENRC Management UK Limited United Kingdom 15 12 ENRC Marketing AG Switzerland 2 1 ENRC Kazakhstan LLP formerly ENRC Management KZ LLP Kazakhstan 2 1 Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC Kazakhstan 1 1 Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC Kazakhstan 1 1 SSGPO JSC Kazakhstan 1 TNC Kazchrome JSC Kazakhstan 1 ENRC Logistics LLP Kazakhstan 1 Total investments 1,224 1,216 In accordance with UITF 44 and FRS 20, the cost of investments in ENRC Management UK Limited, ENRC Marketing AG, ENRC Kazakhstan LLP, Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC, Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC, SSGPO JSC, TNC Kazchrome JSC and ENRC Logistics LLP increased during the year to reflect the cost of the conditional awards of shares granted to their respective employees.
Information on the fair value calculations is given in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company holds 250 million ordinary shares representing 100% of the issued share capital of ENRC Finance Limited.
The principal activities of ENRC Finance Limited are acting as the treasury company for the Company and its subsidiaries as well as holding investments in subsidiary companies of the Group.
The Company holds 1,000 ordinary shares representing 100% of the issued share capital of ENRC Management UK Limited.
ENRC Management UK Limited provides management services for the headquarters of the Company and its subsidiaries.
142 Unlocking Resources Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 6.
Amount owed by Group companies As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 ENRC Finance Limited 2,855 2,652 The amount due from ENRC Finance Limited at 31 December 2010 and 2009 bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.056%.
The loan is unsecured and is repayable on demand.
Amount owed to Group companies As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 ENRC Management UK Limited 41 44 The amount due to ENRC Management UK Limited at 31 December 2010 and 2009 relates to management recharges.
It is repayable on demand and is not interest bearing.
Term borrowings The Company entered into an agreement with JSC Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna for a loan amounting to US$500 million.
JSC Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna, a related party, is an entity controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan, one of the Companys shareholders.
The loan is unsecured and repayable in September 2020.
Interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed interest rate of 7.5% in March and September of each year.
Called up share capital As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2010 2009 Authorised: 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.20 each 400 400 Allotted and fully paid: 1,287,750,000 ordinary shares of US$0.20 each 258 258 10.
Reconciliation of other reserves and movement in shareholders funds Share Total Called up premium Other Profit and shareholders In millions of US$ share capital account reserves loss account funds At 31 December 2008 258 2,999 3 233 3,493 Profit for the financial year 711 711 Dividends paid 322 322 FRS 20 Share-based payment cost 10 10 At 31 December 2009 258 2,999 13 622 3,892 Profit for the financial year 4 4 Dividends paid 238 238 FRS 20 Share-based payment cost 8 8 At 31 December 2010 258 2,999 21 388 3,666 The Company has recognised a net amount of US$8 million in other reserves in relation to the share-based payments 2009: US$10 million.
Details of the share-based payments are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2010 includes a nil charge in relation to foreign exchange losses on dividends 2009: US$2 million.
Details of the dividends declared and paid during the year are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of fees payable to the auditor and its associates for other non-audit services are provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 143 11.
Guarantees and commitments Guarantees provided by the Company as at 31 December 2010 to third party banks in relation to finance arrangements and payment obligations on behalf of its subsidiary companies amounted to US$1,021 million 2009: US$11 million.
Guarantees provided by the Company as at 31 December 2010 to third party contractors on behalf of its subsidiary companies amounted to US$305 million 2009: US$53 million.
Guarantees provided by the Company as at 31 December 2010 to third party banks in relation to hedge contracts on behalf of its subsidiary companies amounted to US$170 million 2009: US$20 million.
The Company did not enter into hedge contracts during the year.
Events after the balance sheet date On 7 February 2011, ENRC Finance Limited entered into an Export Credit Facility agreement for the amount of 185 million.
The unsecured loan is an 11 year facility and bears an interest rate of EURIBOR plus a margin of 1.2%.
The facility will be used to finance some of the Groups capital expenditure.
The Company acts as guarantor to third party banks in relation to finance arrangements and repayment obligations on behalf of ENRC Finance Limited.
ENRC Finance Limited has declared on 16 March 2011 and paid on 23 March 2011 a dividend of US$500 million to the Company in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2010.
In accordance with FRS 21, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend receivable at 31 December 2010, which will be accounted for as dividend income in 2011.
On 18 March 2011, ENRC Finance Limited entered into an unsecured senior US$500 million revolving credit facility which enhances the borrowing headroom and provides significant liquidity to the businesss operations.
On 23 March 2011, ENRC Finance Limited has drawn down an amount of US$490 million on the Companys loan facility.
For 2010 the Board has recommended a final dividend of US 18.0 cents per share, amounting to US$232 million, to be paid on 15 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 April 2011.
144 Unlocking Resources Independent Expert Ore Reserves Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 SRK Consulting UK Ltd SRK has reviewed and restated in line with the 2004 Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves the JORC Code as published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, the mineral resources and ore reserves for the various mining assets of ENRC.
For the Kazakhstan assets this involved reviewing the GKZ reserve statements as prepared in accordance with the local regulatory requirements of Kazakhstan, as at 31 December 2010.
SRK has modified and translated ENRCs GKZ reserve statements and restated these as Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves in accordance with the terms and definitions given in the JORC Code, without recourse to fundamental recalculation.
Since preparing an independent Mineral Experts Report MER on the mining, processing, smelting and power generating assets of ENRC in 2007, SRK has prepared annual updates of the JORC Code compliant Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves with site visits being undertaken on a two to three year basis.
Site visits to Kazchromes Donskoy GOK chrome operations and Zhairemsky GOKs manganese and iron-manganese operations were undertaken in February 2009.
Site visits to Eurasian Energy Corporations EEC Vostochny Open Pit Coal Mine and the SSGPO iron ore mines were undertaken in February 2010, and Aluminium of Kazakhstans AoK KBRU and TBRU bauxite mines were most recently visited in February 2011.
The Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Statements as of 31 December 2009 form the basis for the current update.
In addition to the Kazakhstan assets, Mineral Resource and, where appropriate, Ore Reserve statements have been reviewed and restated for Bahia Minerao Limitadas BML Pedra fide Ferro iron ore project in Brazil and several of the Other Non-ferrous Divisions copper and cobalt assets in the Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC, being Boss Minings Mukondo Mountain, Kakanda North and South, and SMKKs Kabolela deposits.
The dates of these statements relied on the data availability and are therefore not stated per 31 December 2010.
For BML, in line with the Bankable Feasibility Study BFS statement, the Mineral Resources are stated as of March 2009, and the Ore Reserves as of April 2010.
For the Boss Mining and SMKK assets, the date of the statement is as of 31 January 2011.
A site visit to the DRC assets was carried out in February 2011.
SRK has reviewed the Ore Reserve statements in conjunction with ENRCs price forecasts, or where not considered appropriate in line with consensus market forecasts.
The long term prices used to support the current Ore Reserve declarations are: Chromite at US$271 tonne and HCFeCr at US$1,581 tonne: Manganese concentrate products around US$259 tonne and iron manganese concentrate products of US$81 tonne: SSGPO iron ore at US$59 tonne for 66% concentrates, US$68 tonne for 69% concentrates, US$74 tonne for 63.5% pellets, US$92 tonne for 67% pellets, and US$377 tonne for HBI briquettes: BML Blast Furnace product at US$47 tonne, and US$58 tonne for Direct Reduction product: Alumina at US$338 tonne: and EEC at US$10 tonne for domestic coal sales and US$35 tonne for export coal sales.
SRK has relied on ENRC and its technical representatives to ensure all technical information provided to SRK is accurate.
A detailed information request list was submitted by SRK and ENRC provided data during January and February 2011.
The Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve statements are based on the following assumptions, assessments, recommendations and material changes: Ferroalloys Division Kazchrome Donskoy GOK Chrome ore In 2010 the Group produced 4.6 mt of ore. Molodezhnaya Underground Mine produced 2.5 mt and has a mine life of 14 years, producing between 2.2 and 2.5 mtpa for the next ten years.
10th Anniversary Underground Mine produced 1.7 mt and has a mine life of 38 years, with an average 2.5 mtpa from Phase 1.
The deeper Phase 2 commences production in 2020, with production building up to around 4.4 mtpa in 2029, continuing to 2048.
A significant portion of the Ore Reserves is dependent on successful application of new mining methods for both near surface and deposits at depth.
Whilst studies have been carried out for these, the methods have not been trialled and will be at a higher cost than the current method being utilised.
Due to the integrated structure of the Donskoy mines with the Aksu and Aktobe smelters, this higher mining cost will not negatively impact on the current Ore Reserve statement.
Yuzhny open pit mined 0.3 mt in 2010 and is due to produce 2.5 mt ore between 2013 and 2018, at a high stripping ratio.
The Mineral Resource has marginally decreased in line with depletion from the 2010 production.
The Ore Reserves for Yuzhny and Molodezhnaya have not materially changed.
However, the Ore Reserves for the 10th Anniversary Mine have slightly increased due to a re-evaluation of the modifying factors.
The investment required to sustain the current operations and to provide for planned expansions and improvements at the 10th Anniversary Mine and the Aktobe smelter, have been adequately allowed for.
Kazmarganets Manganese ore The Ore Reserves for Tur are based on a life of mine plan ending in 2020.
The current mining contract for Tur expires on 7th October 2021.
The Vostochny Kamys Ore Reserves are based on a life of mine plan ending in 2013.
The current mining contract for Vostochny Kamys expires on 28th June 2018.
No operational changes are planned.
Kazmarganets product is consumed by the Aksu smelter, and the Ore Reserves have therefore been stated on the basis that they are part of the integrated Kazchrome operations.
Overall comment on Kazchrome The production levels planned for the mines, process plants and smelters, and the respective operating costs, are considered to be realistic.
The 10th Anniversary Mine and the Aktobe smelter have substantial expansion plans and these appear to have been adequately investigated, planned and costed.
The Ore Reserves for Donskoy and Kazmarganets are supported by the overall profitability of Kazchrome.
Whilst minor recommendations have been made to ENRC, SRK finds all other requirements to be in place, including the mining contracts.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 145 Zhairemsky GOK Manganese and Iron-Manganese ores The Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves at Zhairemsky GOK have been reduced by 2.5 mt and 1.6 mt respectively as a result of mining activities and stockpile depletion.
The majority of production has been sourced from the Ushkatyn III open pit manganese operations, with additional manganese ore sourced from the Ushkatyn III underground mine.
A minor amount of iron ore has been sourced from existing surface stockpiles.
There have been no material changes to the Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves for Zhairemsky GOK outside of mining depletion activities in 2010.
The current mining contract for Ushkatyn III expires in June 2015 and for Zhomart in June 2013.
The Reserves for the Zhairem deposit are based on a life of mine plan to the end of 2023.
SRK has declared the Reserves on the understanding that Zhairemsky GOK can extend these mining contracts under similar terms for periods that match their life of mine plans.
Iron Ore Division SSGPO Iron ore In 2010 SSGPO produced 43.6 mt of iron ore at 32.0% iron, from four open pits and one underground mine.
The current mining contract expires in May 2015.
SRK has declared the Ore Reserves on the assumption that SSGPO will apply for, and be granted, at least one 25 year extension of this contract until 2040 under similar terms and conditions.
The Ore Reserves are based on an overall life of mine plan for SSGPO until 2040.
Two new deposits Sorksy and Shagyrkulsky have been added to the Mineral Resource base for 31 December 2010.
Currently no Ore Reserves are stated for these deposits, but technical studies are currently being completed for the Sorksy deposit, which could potentially support full or partial conversion of the Indicated Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
The Mineral Resources can support operations continuing beyond 2040.
BML Iron ore The Statement is in line with the Pedra fide Ferro project Bankable Feasibility Study issued in April 2010 with an effective date of December 2009.
The Mineral Resources for Block 3 have been derived from those mineral rights licence areas that are attributable to Bamin as at December 2009, namely 870.830 2004 and 870.283 2005.
At the planned annual production rate for the BFS of 18 mt of product, the life of mine will be 15 years, assuming production commences in 2013 and extends to 2027.
In addition to the Mineral Resources for Block 3, BML also has Mineral Resources for Blocks 1 & 4 also referred to as Jurema dated as at 9 January 2009.
Alumina and Aluminium Division AoK Bauxite In 2010 the two divisions of AoK produced 5.3 mt of bauxite: 4.9 mt from nine operating open pits in three areas of KBRU and 0.4 mt from three operating open pits at TBRU.
All mining contracts expire on 21 January 2017, with the exception of the mining contract for Vostochno-Ayatskoye, which expires on 26 July 2031.
SRK has declared the Ore Reserves on the understanding that AoK can extend these contracts under similar terms for periods that match their life of mine plans.
The Ore Reserves are based on an overall life of mine plan for AoK to the end of 2045.
SRK notes that the economic viability of TBRU is dependent on the production from KBRU.
Energy Division EEC Coal Vostochny Open Pit Coal Mine produced 20 mt of coal in 2010.
The current mining contract expires on 18 March 2022.
The Coal Reserves are based on a life of mine plan up to 2046 and on the understanding that EEC can extend the contract under similar terms for a period that matches the life of mine plan.
The Resources can support operations continuing beyond 2045.
Other Non-ferrous Division Boss Mining & SMKK Copper Cobalt ores SRK reviewed four of ENRCs copper-cobalt deposits located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC, which ENRC acquired through its majority shareholding in Central African Mining and Exploration Plc CAMEC acquired in 2009 and through the acquisition of Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK in 2009 and 2010.
The deposits reviewed and visited by SRK in February 2011 are: Kakanda North, Kakanda South, Mukondo Mountain and Kabolela.
The projects all had mineral resource estimates issued in accordance with the SAMREC reporting code and prepared by international mining consultants, Coffey Mining.
No Ore Reserves are stated for these deposits and current production is undertaken according to an internal mine plan.
All Mineral Resources are presented on a 100% attributable basis.
For and on behalf of SRK Consulting: Competent Persons for Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Donskoy GOK and Kazmarganets Dr Lucy Roberts and Jurgen Fuykschot Zhairemsky GOK Mark Campodonic and Chris Bray SSGPO Dr Lucy Roberts and Rick Skelton AoK Mark Campodonic and Sean Cremin EEC Paul Bright and Jon Woolliscroft BML Dr John Arthur Block 3, Dr Lucy Roberts Blocks 1&4 and Rick Skelton Block 3 only Boss Mining & SMKK Mineral Resources only Tracey Laight 146 Unlocking Resources Ore Reserves Mineral Resources Estimates Summary of Ore Reserves of ENRC Reserves as of 1 Reserves as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Reserves Proved Probable Total Total life at 2010 Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade mining Minerals type mt % mt % mt % mt % volumes Ferroalloys Division Cr O Cr O Cr O Cr O 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 Chrome ore 76.2 42.3 146.2 41.1 222.4 41.6 225.8 41.5 48 years Mn Mn Mn Mn Manganese ore 26.0 20.2 26.0 20.2 28.1 21.0 9 years Fe Mn Fe Mn Fe Mn Fe Mn 3 Iron-manganese ore 6.9 38.7 4.0 6.9 38.7 4.0 6.8 38.6 4.0 n a Iron Ore Division Iron ore SSGPO 255.1 Fe 38.7 1,126.5 Fe 33.2 1,381.6 Fe 34.2 1,411.9 Fe 34.2 32 years Reserves of Reserves as of 1 April 2010 31 December 2009 4 Iron ore BML Block 3 257.0 39.7 187.0 43.0 444.0 41.1 n a n a n a Alumina and Aluminum Division Al O Al O Al O Al O 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 Bauxite 53.3 43.4 100.7 43.4 154.0 43.4 158.1 43.3 35 years Energy Division 2 Coal 702.9 702.9 723.0 35 years Reserves of Reserves as of 31 January 2011 31 December 2009 Non-ferrous Division Cu Co Cu Co Cu Co Cu Co Copper and Cobalt 1 The Reserves mine life has been calculated using 2010 mining volumes, from all relevant mine sites and does not take into account any mine expansion plans.
2 Coal reserves quality parameter: Calorific value 3,990 kcal kg net as received : 0.56% S air dried : 42.5% ash air dried.
3 Iron-manganese ore reserves life is not calculated due to immaterial mining activity for this product in 2010.
4 At the planned production rate of 18 mtpa of product, the reserves life will be 15 years, assuming production commences in 2013.
2 These resources include the Ushkatyn-I resources which relate to a particular high-iron manganese mineralisation jacobsite, which were grouped for the purpose of this report together with the other manganese resources.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 147 Ferroalloys Division Mining facilities of the Ferroalloys Division produce chrome ore, manganese ore and iron-manganese ore.
These facilities are represented by Joint Stock Company JSC Kazchrome and JSC Zhairemsky GOK.
JSC Kazchrome in turn consists of Donskoy GOK and Kazmarganets Mining Unit.
Ore Reserves Chromite Deposits Reserves as of Reserves as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Proved Probable Total Total Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name mine mt % mt % mt % mt % Donskoy GOK 10th Anniversary U G 61.1 42.8 115.6 42.5 176.7 42.6 176.7 42.6 Molodezhnaya U G 15.0 40.5 12.3 40.5 27.3 40.8 27.7 40.5 Yuzhny O P 0.1 42.4 2.4 42.4 2.5 42.4 2.8 42.4 Stockpiles 15.9 31.3 15.9 31.3 18.6 32.3 Donskoy GOK total 76.2 42.3 146.2 41.1 222.4 41.6 225.8 41.5 Mineral Resources Chromite Deposits Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves Resources as of Resources as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Measured Indicated Inferred Total Total Type Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name of mine mt % mt % mt % mt % mt % Donskoy GOK 10th Anniversary U G 60.4 50.8 162.9 50.5 48.8 48.4 272.1 50.2 273.6 50.2 Molodezhnaya U G 14.0 51.0 11.4 51.0 25.4 51.0 27.4 51.0 Yuzhny O P 0.1 48.8 2.2 48.8 2.3 48.8 2.6 48.8 Stockpiles 15.9 31.3 15.9 31.3 18.6 32.3 Donskoy GOK total 74.5 50.8 192.4 48.9 48.8 48.4 315.7 49.3 322.2 49.2 Ore Reserves Manganese Deposits Reserves as of Reserves as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Proved Probable Total Total Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name mine mt % mt % mt % mt % Kazmarganets Mn Mn Mn Mn Tur O P 4.9 20.0 4.9 20.0 5.3 22.3 Vostochny Kamys O P 0.5 15.2 0.5 15.2 0.7 16.0 Kazmarganets total 5.4 19.6 5.4 19.6 6.0 21.6 Zhairemsky GOK Ushkatyn-I O P Ushkatyn-III O P 8.9 20.4 8.9 20.4 10.1 21.1 Ushkatyn-III U G 8.4 20.9 8.4 20.9 8.7 21.7 Zhomart including Zapadny O P 3.0 19.0 3.0 19.0 3.0 19.0 Perstenevsky O P Stockpiles 0.3 14.2 0.3 14.2 0.3 13.9 Zhairemsky GOK total 20.6 20.3 20.6 20.3 22.1 20.9 Grand total 26.0 20.2 26.0 20.2 28.1 21.0 148 Unlocking Resources Ore Reserves Mineral Resources Estimates continued Mineral Resources Manganese Deposits Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves Resources as of Resources as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Measured Indicated Inferred Total Total Type Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name of mine mt % mt % mt % mt % mt % Kazmarganets Mn Mn Mn Mn Mn Tur O P 4.9 22.6 2.5 20.4 7.4 21.8 7.9 22.7 Vostochny Kamys O P 0.5 15.7 1.2 19.3 1.7 18.2 1.9 19.0 Kazmarganets total 5.4 21.9 3.7 20.0 9.1 21.1 9.8 22.0 Zhairemsky GOK 1 Ushkatyn-I O P 18.7 11.8 0.4 11.5 19.1 11.8 19.1 11.9 Ushkatyn-III O P 8.3 23.2 0.5 23.2 8.8 23.2 9.9 24.0 Ushkatyn-III U G 7.9 23.3 48.7 21.5 56.6 22.0 57.4 21.9 Zhomart including Zapadny O P 3.0 21.3 6.7 21.3 9.7 21.2 9.8 22.0 Perstenevsky O P 0.8 21.0 0.8 21.0 0.8 21.0 Perstenevsky U G 115.0 23.8 115.0 23.8 115.0 27.7 Stockpiles 0.8 15.5 0.8 15.5 1.1 15.0 Zhairemsky GOK total 38.7 17.4 172.1 23.0 210.8 21.9 213.1 24.1 Grand total 44.1 17.9 175.8 22.9 219.9 21.9 222.9 24.1 1 These Ushkatyn-I resources relate to a particular high-iron manganese mineralisation jacobsite, which were grouped for the purpose of this report together with the other manganese resources.
Ore Reserves Iron-Manganese Deposits Reserves as of Reserves as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Proved Probable Total Total Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name mine mt % mt % mt % mt % Zhairemsky GOK Fe Mn Fe Mn Fe Mn Fe Mn Ushkatyn-I O P 6.1 38.7 4.1 6.1 38.7 4.1 6.1 38.7 4.1 Ushkatyn-III O P Ushkatyn-III U G Zhomart O P 0.3 40.6 2.8 0.3 40.6 2.8 0.3 40.6 2.8 Stockpiles 0.5 37.0 3.1 0.5 37.0 3.1 0.4 35.8 3.8 Zhairemsky GOK total 6.9 38.7 4.0 6.9 38.7 4.0 6.8 38.6 4.0 Mineral Resources Iron-Manganese Deposits Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves Resources as of Resources as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Measured Indicated Inferred Total Total Type Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name of mine mt % mt % mt % mt % mt % Zhairemsky GOK Fe Mn Fe Mn Fe Mn Fe Mn Fe Mn Ushkatyn-I O P 5.6 44.0 1.6 5.6 44.0 1.6 5.6 44.0 1.6 Ushkatyn-III O P 0.1 40.7 1.6 0.1 40.7 1.6 0.1 23.8 0.6 Ushkatyn-III U G 3.4 40.7 1.6 3.4 40.7 1.6 3.6 40.1 1.5 Zhomart O P 0.3 43.5 1.6 5.0 43.5 1.6 5.3 43.5 1.6 5.4 43.4 1.3 Stockpiles 1.1 33.9 4.5 1.1 33.9 4.5 1.0 32.9 4.9 Zhairemsky GOK total 10.4 41.9 1.9 5.1 43.4 1.6 15.5 42.3 1.8 15.7 42.0 1.7 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 149 Iron Ore Division Mining facilities of the Iron Ore Division consist of SSGPO mines and the BML project.
AoK in turn consists of Krasno-Oktyabrskoye Mining Unit KBRU and Torgayskoye Mining Unit TBRU.
Coal Reserves Reserves as of Reserves as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Proved Probable Total Total Type of Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name mine mt % mt % mt % mt % EEC Vostochny O P 702.9 702.9 723.0 Grand total 702.9 702.9 723.0 Coal reserves quality parameter: Calorific value 3,990kcal kg net as received : 0.56% S air dried : 42.5% ash air dried.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 151 Coal Resources Coal Resources are inclusive of Coal Reserves Resources as of Resources as of 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Measured Indicated Inferred Total Total Type Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name of mine mt % mt % mt % mt % mt % EEC Vostochny O P 1,009.3 195.3 1,204.6 1,220.8 Grand total 1,009.3 195.3 1,204.6 1,220.8 Coal reserves quality parameter: Calorific value 4,580kcal kg net as received : 0.57% S air dried : 36% ash air dried.
Other Non-ferrous Division Mineral Resources of the Other Non-ferrous Division are represented through the Kakanda North, Kakanda South, Mukondo Mountain all acquired through the CAMEC transaction and Kabolela deposits acquired through the SMKK transaction.
Mineral Resources Copper and Cobalt Resources as of Resources as of 31 January 2011 31 December 2009 Measured Indicated Inferred Total Total Type Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Enterprise and mine name of mine mt % mt % mt % mt % mt % Boss Mining Cu Co Cu Co Cu Co Cu Co Cu Co Kakanda South O P 12.6 2.2 0.1 12.6 2.2 0.1 n a n a Kakanda North O P 12.6 3.1 0.2 6.0 3.6 0.2 18.6 3.3 0.2 n a n a Mukondo Mountain O P 2.3 1.8 0.9 3.6 1.5 1.2 5.9 1.6 1.1 n a n a Boss Mining total 14.9 2.9 0.3 22.2 2.5 0.3 37.1 2.7 0.3 n a n a SMKK Kabolela O P 11.1 1.8 0.4 2.3 1.3 0.3 13.4 1.7 0.4 n a n a SMKK total 11.1 1.8 0.4 2.3 1.3 0.3 13.4 1.7 0.4 n a n a Grand total 26.0 2.4 0.3 24.5 2.4 0.3 50.5 2.4 0.3 n a n a 152 Unlocking Resources Glossary AI O Aluminium oxide 2 3 AoK Aluminium of Kazakhstan Bamin or BMBV Bahia Minerals BV BML Bahia Minerao Ltda BRIC Fast growing developing economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China BRL Brazilian real CAMEC Central African Mining & Exploration Company Plc CCC Congo Cobalt Corporation SprL CIS Commonwealth of Independent States CIT Corporate Income Tax CNY Chinese yuan Cr O Chromium oxide 2 3 DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo EEC Eurasian Energy Corporation EMTN European Medium Term Note Programme ENRC Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC EPS Earnings per share EPT Excess Profits Tax in the Republic of Kazakhstan EU European Union Fe O Iron oxide 2 3 GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practices GBP British pound GDP Gross Domestic Product GKZ State Reserves Commissions of countries of the former Soviet Union IAS International Accounting Standards IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IPO Initial Public Offering JSC Joint Stock Company KAS Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter KASE Kazakhstan Stock Exchange KBRU Krasno Oktyabrskoye bauxite mine KZT Kazakhstani tenge LME London Metal Exchange LSE London Stock Exchange LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate defined as the number of lost time injuries per million hours worked.
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan MET Mineral Extraction Tax MIBA Minerao Minas Bahia SA MMK Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works Open Joint Stock Company Mn Manganese MPB Minerao Peixe Bravo SA n a Not applicable OJSC Open Joint Stock Company O P Open pit PBT Profit before tax RUB Russian rouble SMKK Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese SprL SRK SRK Consulting UK Limited SSGPO Sokolovsko Sarbaiskoye Ore Mining and Processing Association SX EW Solvent extraction electro-winning TBRU Torgay bauxite mine TSR Total shareholder return UC Rusal United Company Rusal UK United Kingdom US United States of America US$ US dollar U G Underground mine ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 153 alumina Any of several forms of aluminium oxide, AI O, occurring naturally as corundum, or obtained by 2 3 refining of bauxite ore. aluminium smelter An electrolysis process plant used to convert alumina to aluminium metal.
bauxite An earthy rock composed almost wholly of aluminium hydroxide, often formed by the intense weathering of existing rocks.
It is the principal ore of aluminium.
beneficiation The process used to remove unwanted material from mined ore, in order to increase the proportion of useful metal compounds minerals.
blast furnace A pyrometallurgical process plant which employs hot air blast as an aid to reduce the mineral ore usually iron oxides, hematite or magnetite to its metallic element Fe.
brownfield A development project that is close to existing industrial operations with proximity to existing infrastructure, often an extension and with known geological conditions.
calcite A common rock forming mineral, calcium carbonate CaCO.
3 capacity Means the design number of units that can be produced in a given time period based on operations with a normal number of shifts and maintenance interruptions.
capital expenditure Expenditures incurred during the process of commencing, expanding or sustaining production.
charge chrome A ferrochrome alloy where the percentage of chromium is between 50%-55%.
This is a material charged to a steel production furnace.
chromite Chromium spinel Fe, Mg O. Fe, Al, Cr O, the principal chromium ore mineral, chromium content 2 3 43%-68%.
chromium Chemical element with symbol Cr, commonly used in steel industry to procure stainless steel.
cobalt A chemical element with the symbol Co. A hard, lustrous grey metal.
cobalt concentrate A washed and or floated ore that contains elevated levels of cobalt.
solvent extraction and After ore is leached with acid the liquid product is further purified in a chemical process known electro-winning SX EW plant as solvent extraction SX.
The resultant liquid product from this is known as a pregnant solution acidic metal-laden water and is sent to an electro-winning EW Plant where the cobalt is deposited in metal form through electrolysis.
coke Bituminous coal from which the volatile components have been removed.
Is used as a fuel and as a reducing agent in smelting.
community and social investment The total value of donations and gifts in kind devoted to communities in which ENRC operates and includes sponsorship and charitable donations as well as provision of finance for investment in development of cultural and health facilities.
concentrate A material that has been processed to increase the content of the contained valuable component or mineral relative to the contained waste.
copper A chemical element with the symbol Cu.
It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity.
copper cathode C athodes are typically large plates of pure copper 99.9% copper produced as the final product in the smelting and refining process.
Copper cathodes are re-melted to produce wire rod, billets, cakes or ingots.
copper sludge A mix of copper flakes and powder recovered from the bottom of the electro-winning tanks.
corundum A mineral with the ideal composition AI O, natural alumina.
2 3 crushing Size reduction into relatively coarse particles by stamps, crushers, or rolls.
deferred Projects which have been identified and put on hold.
dilution The contamination of ore with barren wall rock leading to lower grade in the mined product than in the in situ ore itself.
dip The angle at which a bed, stratum, or vein is inclined from the horizontal, measured perpendicular to the strike.
enrichment The process of removing impurities from mined ore, resulting in an increase in the proportion of the valuable mineral or metal component similar to beneficiation and concentration.
excavator Mobile machine used in open pit mining for the digging of ore and waste from the mine and loading them onto vehicles for transportation.
exceptional items Exceptional items are those items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Exceptional items in 2007 relate solely to the IPO.
execution Projects which have full Board approval with equipment ordered and construction in progress.
fault A fracture or a fracture zone along which there has been displacement of one side relative to the other.
The displacement may be a few inches or many miles.
ferroalloys Group of alloys having iron Fe as one of the defining elements.
These alloys form the feed material for various finishing processes eg steel making.
The Group, in particular, produces high-, mediumand low-carbon ferrochrome, ferrosilicochrome and ferrosilicomanganese.
ferrochrome An alloy of iron and chromium primarily used as an input to stainless steel making.
Comprising charge chrome, high-carbon, medium-carbon and low-carbon ferrochrome.
ferrosilicochrome An alloy with iron, chrome and silicon as the main elements.
154 Unlocking Resources Glossary continued ferrosilicomanganese An alloy with iron, manganese and silicon as the main elements.
ferrosilicon An alloy with iron and silicon as the main elements.
fluorite Also known as fluorspar.
A halide mineral composed of calcium fluoride, CaF.
Used for making steel 2 and aluminium amongst other purposes.
furnace A vessel in which ore is reduced to molten metal under the action of applied heat.
Similarly, crude metal is treated in a furnace by adding alloys to produce refined metals.
grade Quantity of metal in a specified quantity of rock, concentrate, alloy or other material, usually expressed as a percentage of the primary element.
greenfield A term used to describe an area of undeveloped land, either currently used for agriculture or just left to nature.
Group ENRC and each of its subsidiaries.
hematite Common iron oxide mineral, Fe O.
2 3 impurity loadings Impurities in the product or chemical process.
JORC Code The 2004 Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves as published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council of Australia.
limestone Sedimentary rock comprised mostly of calcium carbonate calcite.
magnetite A mineral of iron, Fe O, a common ore forming mineral with characteristic magnetic properties.
3 4 metallurgy The science that deals with procedures used in extracting metals from their ores, purifying and alloying metals.
mill Commonly used to describe a plant where ore is ground and undergoes physical or chemical treatment to extract and produce a concentrate of the valuable minerals.
mineral resources A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indication and measured categories.
mineralisation The process by which minerals are introduced into a rock.
More generally, a term applied to accumulations of economic or related minerals in quantities ranging from weakly anomalous to economically recoverable.
open pit mining Method of mining in which the ore is extracted from an excavation open to the sky.
ore The naturally occurring material from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted profitably or to satisfy social or political objectives.
The term is generally but not always used to refer to metalliferous material, and is often modified by the names of the valuable constituent, eg iron ore. ore reserves The economically mineable part of a measured and or Indicated mineral resource.
It includes, diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies and have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Ore reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into probable ore reserves and proved ore reserves.
overburden In an open pit mine, the unwanted material that must be stripped away to reveal the ore beneath.
oxide ore O re that was originally deposited as a sulphide but due to the action of the elements air, water etc over a long period of time has become oxidised weathered.
pelletising The process of agglomerating fine product and moulding it into the shape of a pellet a ball of 8 to 16mm in diameter, which is more favourable in size and strength for more efficient down stream processing than the original fines.
planning and design Projects that have received initial Board approval for feasibility studies.
plant Commonly used as general term for fixed or moveable equipment required in the process of winning of raw material and down stream processing, including crushers, mills, smelters.
pre-feasibility Projects at the stage of pre-feasibility study that have not had Board approval.
probable ore reserves The economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some circumstances, a measured mineral resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
A probable ore reserve has a lower level of confidence than a proved ore reserve but is of sufficient quality to serve as the basis for a decision on the development of the deposit.
product cost per tonne The total operating costs, as presented in the income statement, over the volume of product sold.
The product cost per tonne measures the performance of ENRC in maintaining its low cost base.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 155 proved ore reserves The economically mineable part of a measured mineral resource.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal environmental, social and governmental factors.
A proved ore reserve represents the highest confidence category of reserve estimate.
The style of mineralisation or other factors could mean that proved ore reserves are not achievable in some deposits.
refinery An electrolytic or chemical facility producing pure metals or metal compounds.
return on capital employed or ROCE Profit before interest and taxation and exceptional items over average capital employed borrowings and total equity, including minority interests less IPO proceeds.
saleable product Products that have been upgraded into a form that may be sold to customers.
Samruk Kazyna The sovereign wealth fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
scrap A term used to describe recyclable materials left over from any manner of product consumption, such as parts of vehicles, building supplies, and surplus materials.
sediment Particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow, glaciers or wind and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles.
semi-coke Any of a range of products intermediate in composition and consistency between coke and pitch formed by the incomplete carbonisation of coal.
silicomanganese A ferroalloy composed principally of manganese, silicone and iron, used in steel production.
smelting A thermal process whereby molten metals or amalgamated metals are liberated from beneficiated ore or concentrate with impurities speared as lighter slag.
spot price The current price of a metal for immediate delivery.
stockpile A generally intermediate accumulation of ore, other mineral product or coal, prior to individual processing steps.
Any heap of material formed for loading or other purposes.
strike A geological term which describes a horizontal line on the surface of a dipping stratum.
The strike is 90 to the dip of the stratum.
stripping ratio The ratio between the volume of tonnage of waste and ore that must be removed during open pit mining.
sulphide ore A s ulphur bearing ore containing appreciable levels of metals that ideally can be extracted and recovered profitably through various process techniques.
super alloys An alloy that exhibits excellent mechanical strength, good surface stability, corrosion and oxidation resistance.
total shareholder return or TSR Overall return on an ordinary share, after all adjustments for capital actions and reinvestments of dividends or other income over the relevant period, expressed as percentage of the average price of an ordinary share at the beginning of the relevant period.
Dividends includes regular dividend payments, but also may include cash payments to shareholders or special one-time dividends or share buybacks.
tailings Tailings are the materials left over after the process of separating the valuable fraction from the uneconomic fraction of an ore. turbines A rotating machine for producing electricity, driven by steam or gas.
underlying EBITDA Profit before finance income, finance cost, income tax expense, depreciation, amortisation and impairment, net gains and losses on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting, share of profit or loss of joint venture and associates, gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture, acquisition related costs and the impact of the devaluation of the Kazakhstani tenge.
Non-GAAP measures are defined in note 37 to the financial statements.
vein An epigenetic mineral filling of a fault or other fracture in a host rock, in tabular or sheet like form, often with associated replacement of the host rock, a mineral deposit of this form and origin.
waste Rock lacking sufficient metal grade and or other characteristics to be a source of economic revenue.
Units % per cent degree GWh gigawatt hour kcal kg thousand calories per thousand grammes kg kilogramme kt thousand metric tonnes KWh kilowatt hour mt million metric tonnes MWh megawatt hour 3 m cubic metres pa per annum 156 Unlocking Resources Shareholder Information General Information ENRCs shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange LSE and the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange KASE.
Information on the Companys current share price together with copies of the Groups annual reports, interim results and interim management statements and major presentations to analysts and institutional shareholders are available on the ENRC website, www.
com Dividends As noted in the Directors Report on page 62, and in the AGM Notice, the Board proposes a final dividend of 18 US cents per share, subject to shareholder approval being given at the AGM to be held on 8 June 2011.
If the proposed final dividend is approved, it will be paid on 15 June 2011 to all ordinary shareholders on the register of members on 1 April 2011.
As the Groups financial results are reported in US dollars, the dividend will be paid in US dollars.
Registered shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in pounds sterling by submitting a currency election form to the Registrars.
Shareholders who have not submitted a currency election form, but who wish to do so, may lodge their form at any time.
However, in order for the submission to be effective for the next dividend payment, the form must be lodged with the Registrars by the close of business on the day immediately preceding the date of the dividend announcement.
For the final dividend 2010, this date was 22 March 2011.
Any currency election form lodged with the Registrar will remain in force until such time as the instruction is amended.
Dividend payment to your bank account The Company can pay dividends in pounds sterling to United Kingdom registered shareholders directly to their bank or building society account.
This means that dividends should be available as cleared funds on the dividend payment date.
Shareholders wishing to adopt this method of payment should contact the Registrars.
Global payments service The global payments service allows shareholders resident in certain countries to receive their dividend payment to their local bank and in their local currency over 65 currencies are catered for.
Shareholders wishing to make use of the global payments service should register for Investor Centre at www.
co. uk or contact the Registrars.
Registrars and transfer office The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavillions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 707 1680 www.
co. uk contactus Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, such as change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, should be directed to the Companys Registrars.
Holders of ordinary shares in the UK may also view and update details of their shareholding, after a brief registration process, via our Registrars Investor Centre service at: www.
co. uk Internet share dealing An internet share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares in the UK who want to either buy or sell ordinary shares.
Further information about this service can be obtained from the Companys Registrars on 44 0 870 707 1680 or by logging on to: www.
com dealing uk Telephone share dealing A telephone share dealing service with the Companys Registrars is available for holders of ordinary shares in the UK.
The service is available from 08.00 to 16.30, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number: 44 0 870 703 0084.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 157 Enquiries Shareholders who wish to contact the Company on any matter relating to their shareholding are invited to contact the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Shareholders may also contact the General Counsel and Company Secretary at the Companys Registered office: 16 St Jamess Street, London, SW1A 1ER, United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7389 1440: Fax: 44 0 20 7389 1441.
For other enquiries, please contact the Investor Relations department at the registered office on 44 0 20 7389 1440.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders As at 18 April 2011 Number of holders % Number of shares 1 to 1,000 shares 472 0.01 198,793 1,001 to 5,000 198 0.04 492,691 5,001 to 10,000 79 0.05 588,722 10,001 to 100,000 254 0.79 10,138,247 100,001 to 500,000 137 2.47 31,834,029 500,001 and over 89 96.64 1,244,497,518 Events calendar 2011 Wednesday, 30 March 2011 Ex-dividend date Friday, 1 April 2011 Final dividend record date Thursday, 12 May 2011 May 2011 Interim Management Statement 2011 Q1 Production Report Wednesday, 8 June 2011 Annual General Meeting Wednesday, 15 June 2011 Final dividend payment date Wednesday, 3 August 2011 2011 Q2 Production Report Wednesday, 17 August 2011 2011 Half Year Results Announcement Thursday, 10 November 2011 November 2011 Interim Management Statement 2011 Q3 Production Report Wednesday, 1 February 2012 2011 Q4 Production Report 158 Unlocking Resources Shareholder Information continued Registered Offices Corporate Brokers Auditors Eurasian Natural Resources Morgan Stanley  LLP Corporation PLC 25 Cabot Square 1 Embankment Place 16 St Jamess Street Canary Wharf London London London WC2N 6RH SW1A 1ER E14 4QA United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Financial PR Tel: 44 0 20 7389 1440 Deutsche Bank AG M: Communications Facsimile: 44 0 20 7398 1441 1 Great Winchester Street 1 Ropemaker Street, 9th Floor Website: www.
Forward-looking statements This Annual Report includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking statements include matters that are not historical facts or are statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies, and the industries in which the Group operates.
Forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore too much reliance should not be placed upon them.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Groups control.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
The Group cautions you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that if risks and uncertainties materialise, or if the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, the Groups actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which the Group operates may materially differ from those made in, or suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report.
In addition, even if the Groups results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in future periods.
A number of factors could cause results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, general economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations, changes in business strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to review or confirm analysts expectations or estimates or to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any changes in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as at the date of this document.
160 Unlocking Resources Notes Contents Group Overview Financial Statements 1 O ur Mission 82 Consolidated Income Statement 2 O ur Business at a Glance 83 C onsolidated Statement of 4 Cha irmans Statement Comprehensive Income 6 O ur Highlights 84 Consolidated Balance Sheet 7 K ey Messages 85 C onsolidated Cash Flow Statement 16 C hief Executive Officers Statement 86 Co nsolidated Statement of Changes 22 C hief Financial Officers Review in Equity 26 O ur Strategy 87 N otes to the Consolidated Financial 28 K ey Performance Indicators Statements 30 O ur Divisions 1 38 P arent Company Independent Auditors 32 O perating Review Report 45 C apital Expenditure 1 39 P arent Company Balance Sheet 1 40 N otes to the Parent Company Financial 48 S ustainability Review 53 R isk Management Statements Corporate Governance Reserves 1 44 I ndependent Expert Ore Reserves 58 Board of Directors 60 Se nior Management Report 1 46 O re Reserves Mineral Resources 62 D irectors Report 65 Corporate Governance Estimates Report 73 Re muneration Report Corporate Information 1 52 Gl ossary 79 S tatement of Directors Responsibilities 1 56 Shareholder Information 1 59 Financial Summary 80 I ndependent Auditors Report Designed and produced by CONRAN DESIGN GROUP Printed by Royle Print Printed on revive 50:50, a recycled paper containing 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre and manufactured at a mill accredited with ISO14001 environmental management standard.
Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Unlocking Resources Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC 16 St Jamess Street Eurasian Natural Resources London SW1A 1ER Corporation PLC United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7389 1440 F 44 0 20 7389 1441 Annual Report and www.
