Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements Advances and prepayments Advances and prepayments are carried at cost less provision for impairment.
An advance or prepayment is classified as construction in progress when the goods or services relating to the advance or prepayment are expected to be obtained after one year, or when the advance or prepayment relates to an asset which will itself be classified as non-current upon initial recognition.
Advances or prepayments to acquire assets are transferred to the carrying amount of the asset once the Group has obtained control of the asset and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group.
Other advances and prepayments are written off to profit or loss when the expenses relating to the advances or prepayments are incurred.
If there is an indication that the assets, goods or services relating to an advance or prepayment will not be received, the carrying value of the advance or prepayment is written down accordingly and a corresponding impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Revenue recognition Revenues from sales of goods are recognised at the point of transfer of risks and rewards of ownership of the goods, normally when the crude oil is shipped.
If the Group agrees to transport goods to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point.
Sales are shown net of VAT and discounts.
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Details of the Groups significant accounting judgements and critical accounting estimates are set out below: Licence life of Exillon TP Some of the licences of Exillon TP for subsurface use for the extraction of hydrocarbons, such as ETP I and ETP IV expire in 2013.
Management of the Group expects that these licences will be extended at nominal cost until the end of the field life which is expected to be in 2027-2028.
In these financial statements the depreciation charge and the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and provision for decommissioning have been recorded on the assumption that the subsurface use licences will be extended until the end of the field life.
Based on analysis of its subsurface use licences, current Russian legislation, and industry practice, the Group believes that it is entitled to prolong the licences under the contractual terms and the subsurface use legislation beyond 2013.
If the licences are not renewed by the end of 2013, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment that would have to be derecognised at the expiry date of the subsurface use licence will be $75,282 thousand as of 31 December 2010 2009: $77,516 thousand.
The decommissioning liability would be $108 thousand higher as at 31 December 2010 2009: $123 thousand.
Decommissioning costs Provision for decommissioning represents the present value of decommissioning costs relating to the Russian Federation oil and gas interests, which are expected to be incurred after 2027.
These provisions have been created based on the Groups internal estimates.
Assumptions, based on the current economic environment, have been made which management believe are a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability.
Those estimates are reviewed regularly to take into account any material changes to the assumptions.
However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the necessary decommissioning works required which will reflect market conditions at the relevant time.
Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning is likely to depend on when the fields cease to produce at economically viable rates.
This in turn will depend upon future oil and gas prices, which are inherently uncertain.
56 Exillon Energy Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements Major assumptions used in estimation of decommissioning costs are set out below: Exillon TP: As at 31 December 2010, undiscounted value of estimated future cash outflows is estimated at $1,499 thousand 2009: $2,399 thousand : Expected timing of future cash outflows the majority of the expenditure is expected to take place after 2027 2009: after 2027 : Discount rate 10% per annum 2009: 10% : Inflation rate 7% per annum 2009: 7%.
If the inflation rate had increased by 1% to 8% at 31 December 2010, the decommissioning liability would have been $156 thousands higher 2009: $239 thousand higher.
If the discount rate had increased by 1% to 11% at 31 December 2010, the decommissioning liability would have been $125 thousands lower 2009: $197 thousand lower.
Exillon WS: As at 31 December 2010, undiscounted value of estimated future cash outflows is estimated at $4,792 thousand 2009: $1,439 thousand : Expected timing of future cash outflows the majority of the expenditure is expected to take place after 2027 2009: after 2027 : Discount rate 10% per annum 2009: 10% : Inflation rate 7% per annum 2009: 7%.
If the inflation rate had increased by 1% to 8% at 31 December 2010, the decommissioning liability would have been $523 thousands higher 2009: $203 thousand higher.
If the discount rate had increased by 1% to 11% at 31 December 2010, the decommissioning liability would have been $418 thousands lower 2009: $167 thousand lower.
Estimation of oil and gas reserves Oil and gas reserves are key elements in the Groups investment decision-making process.
They are also an important element in testing for impairment.
Changes in oil and gas reserves, particularly proved and probable reserves, will affect unit-of-production depreciation charges in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i. e. prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made.
Probable reserves are those additional Reserves which analysis of geoscience and engineering data indicate are less likely to be recovered than Proved Reserves but more certain to be recovered than Possible Reserves.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require the application of judgement and are subject to future revision.
Accordingly, financial and accounting measures such as depletion charges and provision for decommissioning that are based on Proved and Probable reserves are also subject to change.
Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available reservoir and well information.
All proved reserves estimates are subject to revision, either upward or downward, based on new information, such as from development drilling and production activities or from changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract terms or development plans.
In general, changes in the technical maturity of hydrocarbon reserves resulting from new information becoming available from development and production activities have tended to be the most significant cause of annual revisions.
In general, estimates of reserves for undeveloped or partially developed fields are subject to greater uncertainty over their future life than estimates of reserves for fields that are substantially developed and being depleted.
As a field goes into production, the amount of proved reserves will be subject to future 57
