Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
BACKGROUND The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group is the exploration, development and production of oil within the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS region.
The Groups production facilities are based in the Republic of Komi and the Khanty-Mansiysk Region of the Russian Federation.
The Groups structure is given in Note 34.
Exillon Energy plc the Company or the Parent is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the Isle of Man.
The company was formed on 27 March 2008.
Its registered address is Fort Anne, South Quay, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 5PD.
As at 31 December 2010, the main shareholder has 49.9% in the Company's outstanding issued share capital.
The Groups operations are conducted primarily through its subsidiaries, Exillon TP and Exillon WS.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the Listing Rules of the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority FSA.
These standards are subject to interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, modified for fair values under IFRS.
The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also necessitates management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 5.
Note 33 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group believes that it has sufficient financial resources to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Companys forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance including oil price, show that the Company should be able to operate with its current cash holding.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS I Certain new and revised standards and interpretations have been published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 and which the Group has adopted: IFRS 3 Business combinations revised January 2008 : effective for the periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements revised January 2008 : effective for the periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRIC 17 Distributions of non cash assets to owners effective for the periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 which requires to present details of dividends recognised as distributions to owners: Amendments to IFRS 1 relating to additional exemptions: effective for the periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 earlier application is permitted.
Adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in current period had no material impact on these consolidated financial statements.
