Exillon Energy Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements II Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not effective yet and have not been early adopted by the Group: IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective on or after 1 January 2013 : IAS 24 Related party disclosures revised, effective 1 January 2011 : IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures amendment, effective 1 July 2011 : IAS 12 Income taxes amendment on deferred tax, effective 1 January 2012.
Management anticipates that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements incorporates the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the directors of the Company.
The Groups primary format for reporting segment information is operational segments.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for making strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board.
Functional and presentation currencies The items included in these consolidated financial statements relating to the Group companies are measured using their functional currency that is the currency in the main environment in which they operate.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars or $, which is the Exillon Energy plc functional and presentation currency.
The functional currency of the Groups trading and oil extracting subsidiaries is the Russian Rouble and for the other companies it is the US dollar.
Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at closing rates of exchange.
Trading results of subsidiary undertakings are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
The Group uses average monthly rates published by Central Bank to translate trading results denominated in roubles into US dollars.
Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves.
The Group used the following exchange rates of one rouble to one US dollar: For the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Closing rates of exchange 30.4769 30.2442 Effective annual average rates of exchange 30.3765 31.7231 The exchange rate of UAE Dirham AED to US dollar has been held constant for the last several years at a rate of 3.675 AED for one US dollar.
51 Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements Business combinations The acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses from third parties are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets acquired, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Where the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Property, plant and equipment The Group uses the cost model by which items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical purchase cost less accumulated depreciation.
a Historical cost Historical cost of property, plant and equipment items includes their acquisition cost, all the costs directly related to bringing the assets to the location and condition ready for their intended use and any costs of dismantling and removing the item or restoring the site on which it is located.
Staff costs and other operating expenses incurred in the construction of the asset are also capitalised.
The costs of expansion, modernisation or improvements leading to increased productivity, capacity or efficiency or to a lengthening of the useful lives of the assets are capitalised.
Repair, upkeep and maintenance expenses are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
Furthermore, certain of the Groups facilities require periodic reviews.
In this respect, a portion of the items requiring replacement are recognised specifically and are depreciated over the period until the next repairs are carried out.
Property, plant and equipment also include investments relating to oil and gas exploration, development and production activities.
Exploration and evaluation assets Exploration and evaluation assets are measured at cost less provision for impairment, where required.
The Group recognises oil and gas exploration and evaluation activities using successful efforts accounting, whereby the accounting treatment of the various costs incurred is as follows: I.
The costs incurred in the acquisition of new interests in areas with proved and unproved reserves including exploration licence acquisition costs, are capitalised as incurred to the account Exploration and Evaluation Assets of the field concerned.
Exploration costs geological and geophysical expenditures, expenditures associated with the maintenance of unproved reserves and other expenditures relating to the exploration activity, excluding exploratory drilling expenditures, are expensed as incurred.
Administrative expenses office rent, office cars, administrative personnel that are not directly attributable to the exploration and evaluation activities are expensed as incurred.
Exploratory drilling costs are capitalised to the account Exploration and Evaluation Assets of the field concerned, pending determination of whether potentially economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling effort.
If the well does not demonstrate potential economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed as a dry hole and are reported in exploration expenses.
It is not unusual to have exploration wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field is performed or while the optimum development plans and timing are established.
V. The Group classifies exploration and evaluation assets as tangible assets since its tangible element underlying reserves is significant and exploration and evaluation assets represent an integral part of the underlying reserves.
Activities preceding the acquisition of oil and gas properties are defined as pre-exploration or prelicence.
All pre-exploration expenditures are recognised as an expense in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income when incurred and include project feasibility studies, surface mapping and appraisal activities, as well as other overhead costs related to pre-exploration activities.
52 Exillon Energy Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements An exploration and evaluation asset is no longer classified as such when the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource is proved.
Once commercial reserves are found, exploration and evaluation assets are transferred to account Oil and Gas Properties and depleted using the unit-of-production method as described in paragraph b Depreciation and depletion below.
Development costs Expenditures related to the development of hydrocarbons are not recognised as exploration and evaluation assets but as oil and gas properties.
Development costs include the cost of development wells to produce proved reserves, the cost of production facilities such as flow lines, separators, oil treatment facilities, heaters, storage tanks, improved recovery systems and gas processing facilities, borrowing costs and other costs necessary to obtain access to proved and probable reserves.
b Depreciation and depletion Property, plant and equipment related to oil and gas production activities are depreciated using the unitof-production method as described below, except in the case of assets whose useful life is shorter than the lifetime of the field roads, pipelines, pumps etc, in which case the straight-line method is applied.
Exploration and evaluation assets are only depreciated when the field is in production.
Producing wells, well pads and other producing items are depleted over Proved and Probable 2P reserves on a field-by-field basis.
Capitalised future decommissioning costs are depleted over Proved and Probable reserves 2P.
Other development costs that cannot be attributed to particular producing units are allocated to cost centres of related oil fields based on their reserve share in the total portfolio.
Such costs are depleted over Proved and Probable 2P reserves on a field-by-field basis.
Since 2P reserves assume future development costs to access proved undeveloped and probable reserves, an adjustment is made to the depreciation base to reflect the effect of future development costs.
Property, plant and equipment, other than those described above, are depreciated using the straight-line method on the basis of the acquisition cost of the assets less their estimated residual value, over the years of estimated useful life of the assets, as follows: Buildings and construction 5 to 30 years Machinery and equipment 3 to 20 years Other 3 to 7 years The residual values and useful lives of these assets are reviewed annually.
Depreciation and depletion starts when the assets become available for use.
Impairment of assets - Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into cash-generating units as they generate cash flows which are independent from other units.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount, and an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The basis for future depreciation or amortisation will take into account the reduction in the value of the asset as a result of any accumulated impairment losses.
When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined in case no impairment loss had 53 Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements been recognised for the asset or the cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The reversal is capped at the value that the asset would have been held at had it continued to be depreciated.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill can not be reversed in a subsequent period.
Impairment of oil and gas properties For oil and gas properties, assets are tested for impairment whenever facts and circumstances indicate potential impairment.
Impairment reviews compare the carrying amount of an asset with its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
As the company is in the development phase, recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs to sell based on market participant assumptions of the future cash flows to be obtained from the proved and probable reserves.
Recognition and measurement of financial instruments The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual obligation of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value.
The accounting policies for subsequent re-measurement of these items are disclosed in the respective accounting policies set out below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions: and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
The primary factors that the Group considers when determining whether a receivable is impaired is its overdue status.
The following other principal criteria are also used to determine that there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred: any portion of the receivable is overdue and the late payment cannot be attributed to a delay caused by the settlement systems: the counterparty experiences a significant financial difficulty as evidenced by its financial information that the Group obtains: the counterparty considers bankruptcy or a financial reorganisation: there is adverse change in the payment status of the counterparty as a result of changes in the national or local economic conditions that impact the counterparty.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by the weighted average method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of production, transportation and custom clearance costs.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are carried at payment or settlement amounts.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised costs using the effective interest method.
Operating leases Where the Group is a lessee in a lease which does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership from the lessor to the Group, the total lease payments are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease and charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, under 54 Exillon Energy Notes to audited 2010 IFRS financial statements an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the statement of comprehensive income net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as finance cost.
Any change in the amount recognised for environmental and litigation and other provisions arising through changes in discount rates is included within finance cost.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
Provision for decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised only to the extent of the expected costs needed to remediate the actual damage made to the environment.
A corresponding amount equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part of the cost of the related property, plant and equipment.
The amount recognised is the estimated cost of decommissioning, discounted to its net present value, and is reassessed each year in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
Changes in the estimated timing of decommissioning or decommissioning cost estimates are dealt with prospectively by recording an adjustment to the provision, and a corresponding adjustment to property, plant and equipment.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision is included as a finance cost.
Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The Group provides for taxes based on the tax accounts maintained and prepared in accordance with the tax regulations of the Russian Federation.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profits for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on arising temporary differences, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the statement of comprehensive income.
Pensions and post-employment benefits Wages, salaries, mandatory defined contributions to the state pension and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the Group.
Share based payments the fair value of share incentives and awards to employees is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award made.
The cost of the share based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Share issuance costs Costs related directly to the new issue of shares have been deducted from equity.
Attributable IPO costs are allocated between the share premium account and income statement in proportion to the number of new shares issued compared to the existing number of shares.
Other costs attributable to the Listing have been expensed.
