Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 91 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 1.
Corporate information Experian plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian group of companies Experian or the Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey under Jersey Companies Law as a public company limited by shares and is resident in Ireland.
The address of its registered office is 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX.
The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market.
Experian is a global information services group.
The consolidated financial statements of Experian plc and its subsidiary undertakings were approved by the Board on 19 May 2010.
Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Although the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey, the Group financial statements are designed to include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements are presented in US dollars, as this is the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and they are rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities including derivatives.
The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 7.
In compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market, the financial statements of the Company are included within the Group annual report and are set out on pages 150 to 158.
These financial statements, prepared under UK accounting standards, are now also prepared and presented in US dollars as the US dollar is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operated during the year.
Recent accounting developments Significant accounting developments There have been three significant developments in financial reporting which became effective for Experian at the start of the current financial year and these have been taken into account in the presentation of the Group financial statements.
With these exceptions, the Group financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with that adopted for the year ended 31 March 2009.
These three developments are: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements This revised standard requires that the Group statement of changes in total equity is now presented as a primary statement.
The standard also prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense within this statement and requires such non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
Accordingly the standard requires that all nonowner changes in equity are shown in a performance statement and, as permitted by the standard, the Group has elected to comply with this requirement by presenting a Group income statement and a Group statement of comprehensive income.
Items in the Group statement of comprehensive income and Group statement of changes in total equity are shown net of related tax.
IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments This amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments Segment information is now prepared in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8, with further information thereon given in note 6.
Other accounting developments The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the IASB and the IFRIC are effective for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2009 but have had no material effect on the results or financial position of the Group disclosed within these financial statements: - Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments - Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs - Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation - Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Instruments - Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 - IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes - IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate - IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 92 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 3.
Recent accounting developments continued At the balance sheet date, a number of new standards, amendments and interpretations were in issue but are not yet effective for the Group and have not been early adopted: - Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements - Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items - Amendment to IFRS 2 Group CashSettled ShareBased Payment Transactions - Revision to IFRS 3 Business Combinations - Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 - Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives - IFRIC 17 Distributions of NonCash Assets to Owners - IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers The amendments to IAS 27 and IFRS 3 will impact the accounting treatment of acquisitions in the Group financial statements.
If they had been adopted, the other new standards, amendments or interpretations would have had no material effect on the results or financial position of the Group disclosed within these financial statements although a number would lead to additional or revised disclosures.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
As required by IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries and segments are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 31 March 2010.
A list of the significant subsidiaries is given in note Q to the parent company financial statements.
Minority interests The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the Group income statement.
Purchases from minority interests result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition after tax profits or losses is recognised in the Group income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the Groups statement of changes in total equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 93 4.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable on the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts, including the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight line basis over the contract period.
Sales are generally invoiced in the geographic area in which the customer is located and accordingly the geographic location of the invoicing undertaking is used as the basis for attributing revenue to individual countries.
Foreign currency translation Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group undertaking at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to net finance costs in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available for sale financial assets are reported as part of the fair value gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars are translated into US dollars as follows: - Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate at the balance sheet date: - Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions : and - All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in Group undertakings whose functional currency is not the US dollar, and of borrowings and other currency instruments, primarily foreign exchange contracts, designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
T ax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to other comprehensive income.
When such an undertaking is sold, these exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of such entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the entities and are translated into US dollars at the closing exchange rate.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate geographic area of operation or a separate major line of business.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale under IFRS 5.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
These include awards in respect of shares in the Company made at or after the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group from GUS plc in October 2006, together with awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled over into awards in respect of shares in the Company at demerger.
The fair value of options and shares granted is recognised as an expense in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revises the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
94 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the Group balance sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an undertaking include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the undertaking sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable or arise from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These criteria include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised over those lives.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Research expenditure is charged in the Group income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Databases and computer software Databases Capitalised databases comprise the fair value of databases acquired as part of a business combination or the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases.
Databases are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to seven years.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences for internal use are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over three to ten years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
These internally generated software costs are amortised on a straight line basis over three to ten years.
Other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Acquisition intangibles Customer and advertiser relationships Contractual and non-contractual customer and advertiser relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eighteen years, based on managements estimates of the average lives of such relationships.
Trademarks and licences Trademarks and licences acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised on a straight line basis over their contractual lives, up to a maximum period of 20 years.
Trade names Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to fourteen years, based on managements expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 95 4.
Significant accounting policies continued Completed technology Completed technology acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years, based on the expected life of the asset.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Land is not depreciated and equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the lower of the useful life and period of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: - Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: - Leasehold properties with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: and - Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over two to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in four categories: loans and receivables, derivatives used for hedging, assets at fair value through profit and loss and available for sale.
The classification is determined at initial recognition and depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial assets used for hedging are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Derivatives utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Assets at fair value through profit and loss Assets at fair value through profit and loss comprise non-hedging derivative financial instruments.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in the other financial asset categories.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within one year of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and disposals of such assets are accounted for at settlement date.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
On disposal or impairment of such assets, the gains and losses in equity are reclassified through the Group income statement.
Gains and losses recognised on disposal exclude dividend and interest income.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence to suggest that available for sale financial assets are impaired.
In the case of equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any such evidence exists, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Group income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Group income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the Group income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value original invoice amount and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Such evidence is based primarily on the pattern of cash received compared to the terms upon which the trade receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash flows.
Any charge or credit in respect of such provisions is recognised in the Group income statement within administrative expenses.
The cost of any irrecoverable trade receivables not included in the provision is recognised in the Group income statement immediately within administrative expenses.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the Group income statement within administrative expenses.
96 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
Incremental transaction costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain obligations, including social security obligations, in respect of share-based payments.
Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at cost, being the fair value at the date a contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Depending on the type of the derivative financial instrument, fair value calculation techniques include, but are not limited to, quoted market value, present value of estimated future cash flows of which the valuation of interest rate swaps is an example and exchange rates at the balance sheet date of which the valuation of foreign exchange contracts is an example.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: - Fair value hedges - hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment: or - Cash flow hedges - hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or - Net investment hedges - hedges of net investments in operations whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current unless they mature within one year after the balance sheet date.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net finance costs over the period of the contracts, together with the interest differentials reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately within cost of sales or operating expenses, as appropriate, in the Group income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item impacts the Group income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss included in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was included in equity is transferred immediately to the Group income statement.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 97 4.
Significant accounting policies continued Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in an undertaking whose functional currency is not the US dollar is recognised in other comprehensive income: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement when the undertaking is disposed of.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Costs in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security obligations on employee share incentive plans, other than those of a financing nature, are charged as an employment cost: other costs and changes in fair value on such derivatives are charged within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Group income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, which are CGUs.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are carried at amortised cost.
Contingent consideration Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of the acquisition initially recorded includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable and payable in the future.
The proceeds are adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to debtors and creditors as appropriate, and profit and loss on disposal, until the ultimate outcome is known.
Current and deferred tax The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Group income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In such cases the tax is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: - The Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: and - It is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and - The amount has been reliably estimated.
98 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Significant accounting policies continued If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Such leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in loans and borrowings.
The interest element of the lease payment is charged in the Group income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each year.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits Defined benefit pension arrangements funded plans The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of funded plans comprise the fair value of plan assets of funded plans less the present value of the related defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Group income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation less the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
The operating and financing costs are recognised separately in the Group income statement.
Defined benefit pension arrangements unfunded plans Unfunded pension obligations are determined and accounted for in accordance with the principles used in respect of the funded arrangements.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution plans are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions payable by the Group to these funds in respect of the year.
Post-retirement healthcare obligations Obligations in respect of post-retirement healthcare plans are calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using an actuarial methodology similar to that for the funded defined benefit pension arrangements.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement only comprises interest on the defined benefit obligation.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 99 4.
Significant accounting policies continued Minority interests The minority interests in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of corporate transactions and related exchange differences.
Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held by the minority shareholders, the put element of the liability is measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and is stated at the net present value of the expected future payments.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation this liability is shown as a non-current financial liability in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the Group income statement within net finance costs.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the related provision for income taxes as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax assets or provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension benefits The present value of the defined benefit assets and obligations depends on factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit assets and obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group financial statements.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the discount rate, the Group has considered the prevailing market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
In determining the discount rate, management has accordingly derived an appropriate discount rate by consideration of the average annualised yield on medium and longer term AA rated corporate bonds in the UK as published by iBoxx, together with consideration of the average yields from Euro Sterling AA, Financial AA and Bank AA indices.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates and additional information is disclosed in note 30.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-thecounter derivatives is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions in respect of the valuation of the put option associated with the remaining 30% stake of Serasa are set out in note 5.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations which require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management, looking forward up to five years.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the markets in which the segment operates.
The discount rates used reflect the segments weighted average cost of capital WACC.
100 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Significant accounting policies continued The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are: 2010 2009 Pre-tax Long term Pre-tax Long term CGU WACC growth rate WACC growth rate North America 12.2% 2.3% 11.6% 2.3% Latin America 15.4% 6.4% 17.0% 8.0% UK & Ireland 10.5% 2.3% 11.5% 2.3% EMEA 9.8% 4.3% 12.1% 4.3% Asia Pacific 11.6% 4.8% 13.5% 4.8% At 31 March 2010, the recoverable amount of the Latin America CGU exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$500m and an increase in the pre-tax WACC of 2.6% or a reduction of 4.4% in the long-term growth rate would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
At 31 March 2010, the recoverable amount of the Asia Pacific CGU exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$100m and an increase in the pre-tax WACC of 3.4% or a reduction of 5.8% in the longterm growth rate would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled share-based employee incentive plans.
The assumptions used in determining the amounts charged in the Group income statement include judgments in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns.
Critical judgments Management has made certain judgments in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies set out above that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
The accounting policy descriptions indicate where judgment needs exercising and these judgments include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
The most significant of these judgments is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made certain judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between three and ten years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and between two and twenty years for acquisition intangibles.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group: Benchmark profit before tax Benchmark PBT Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, tax and discontinued operations.
It includes the Groups share of associates pre-tax profit.
Earnings before interest and tax EBIT EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, net finance costs, tax and discontinued operations.
Benchmark earnings Benchmark earnings represents Benchmark PBT less attributable tax and minority interests.
Benchmark earnings attributable to minority interests represents that portion of Benchmark earnings that relate to minority interests.
Benchmark PBT less attributable tax is designated as overall benchmark earnings.
Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 101 4.
Significant accounting policies continued Exceptional items The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items are those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units or costs of significant restructuring programmes.
All other restructuring costs are charged against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations adjusted for outflows in respect of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets and adding dividends from associates but excluding any cash inflows and outflows in respect of exceptional items.
It is defined as EBIT less changes in working capital, plus depreciation amortisation, less capital expenditure, less profit retained in associates.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents and other highly liquid bank deposits with original maturities greater than three months.
Total debt includes loans and borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging loans and borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases.
Accrued interest is excluded from net debt.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity, whilst maximising returns.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, undertakings with different functional currencies.
In 2010, the Group managed such risk, primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies are the US dollar, by borrowing in the relevant foreign currencies and using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The principal transaction exposures in 2010 were to sterling and the euro.
In 2009, the Group managed such risk primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies were sterling and the principal transaction exposures were to the US dollar and the euro.
On the basis of the profile of foreign exchange transaction exposures, and an assessment of reasonable possible changes in such exposures, the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange risk can be quantified as follows with all other variables held constant: Foreign exchange exposure 2010 2009 Sterling against US dollar: Currency strengthening weakening 10% 9% Effect on profit for the year US$60m US$nil higher lower Effect on other comprehensive income and other components of equity US$nil US$nil Euro against US dollar: Currency strengthening weakening 10% n a Effect on profit for the year US$7m n a higher lower Effect on other comprehensive income and other components of equity US$nil n a Euro against sterling: Currency strengthening weakening n a 8% Effect on profit for the year n a US$2m higher lower Effect on other comprehensive income and other components of equity n a US$nil 102 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Financial risk management continued The Group has investments in undertakings with other functional currencies, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
In order to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on the value of such entities, the Group has a policy of borrowing in US dollars and euros, as well as in sterling, and of entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies.
The sensitivity reported in respect of sterling against the US dollar is wholly attributable to such net exposures.
Otherwise the above analysis excludes the impact of foreign exchange risk on the translation of the net assets of such undertakings.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from its net debt and the portions thereof at variable rates which expose the Group to such risk.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 30% and 70% of net debt at rates that are fixed for more than one year.
The Groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and floating rate liabilities.
The Group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
On the basis of the profile of net debt and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in the principal interest rates, the Groups sensitivity to interest rate risk can be quantified as follows with all other variables held constant: Interest rate exposure 2010 2009 On US dollar denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.7% 1.6% higher higher Effect on profit for the year US$15m US$4m higher higher On sterling denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 2.0% 1.0% higher higher Effect on profit for the year US$3m US$4m higher higher On Brazilian real denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.4% 2.9% higher higher Effect on profit for the year US$nil US$1m higher On euro denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.7% 1.0% higher higher Effect on profit for the year US$3m US$2m lower higher primarily as a result of higher interest income on interest rate swaps offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
primarily as a result of higher interest expense on loans in 2010 and higher interest income on interest rate swaps in 2009.
Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk in connection with investments classified on the balance sheet as available for sale financial assets.
Such investments are primarily held to provide security in connection with unfunded pension obligations and are managed by independent fund managers who seek to mitigate such risk by diversification of the portfolio.
At 31 March 2010, if the relevant stock market and other indices had been 10% higher lower with all other variables held constant, no further significant gains losses would have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk, which results from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contracted party.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 103 5.
Financial risk management continued This credit risk is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored regularly.
The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year and the Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by these counterparties.
At the balance sheet date trade receivables with financial institutions accounted for some 45% 2009: 37% of total trade receivables in the UK and some 20% 2009: 33% of total trade receivables in the USA.
The remaining balances are distributed across multiple industries and geographies.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial assets is the carrying value of the assets.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains long-term committed facilities to ensure it has sufficient funds available for operations and planned expansions.
The Group monitors rolling forecasts of projected cash flows to ensure that it will have adequate undrawn committed facilities available.
Details of the facilities available to the Group and their utilisation at the balance sheet date are given in note 24.
The maturity analysis of financial liabilities is given in note 28.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives in managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce net debt.
As part of its internal reporting processes the Group monitors capital employed by operating segment.
For this purpose, capital employed excludes net debt and tax balances and at 31 March 2010 the Groups capital employed was US$4,251m 2009: US$4,205m.
The Group manages its working capital in order to meet its target to convert at least 90% of EBIT into operating cash flow and the conversion percentage for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 98% 2009: 99%.
Fair value estimation The fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities is determined by using market data and established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The following table presents an analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2010 by level, as required and defined by IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Loans and receivables - 44 - 44 Derivatives used for hedging - 43 - 43 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss - 19 9 28 Available for sale 33 - - 33 Total assets 33 106 9 148 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging - 35 - 35 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss - 70 669 739 Total liabilities - 105 669 774 Net financial assets liabilities 33 1 660 626 Valuations that are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 in the above analysis.
Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices, are classified as Level 2.
Inputs for assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data are classified as Level 3.
104 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Financial risk management continued The following table presents an analysis of the changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise put and call options associated with corporate transactions: Serasa put Other Total Financial assets liabilities classified as Level 3 option derivatives US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 424 - 424 Additions in the year - 8 8 Valuation gains and losses recognised in income statement note 11 113 9 104 Currency translation gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income 124 - 124 At 31 March 2010 661 1 660 The put option associated with the remaining 30% stake in Serasa is valued at the higher of 95% of the equity value of Serasa or the value of Serasa based on the P E ratio of Experian and the latest earnings of Serasa.
A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to calculate the liability.
The key assumptions in arriving at the value of the put are the equity value of Serasa, the future P E ratio of Experian at the date of exercise, the respective volatilities of Experian and Serasa and the risk free rate in Brazil.
It is also assumed that the put may be exercised in June 2012.
Gains and losses in respect of the valuation of the put option since acquisition in June 2007 have been recorded as financing fair value remeasurements.
Movements in the year ended 31 March 2010 primarily relate to an increase in the equity value of Serasa.
Segmental information Under IFRS 8 'Operating Segments', an operating segment is a component of an entity: - that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses including revenues and expenses relating to transactions with other components : and - whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to assess its performance and make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment: and - for which discrete financial information is available.
Experian is organised into, and managed on a worldwide basis over, the following five operating segments, based on geographic areas, supported by its central Group functions: - North America: - Latin America: - UK and Ireland: - Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA : and - Asia Pacific.
The chief operating decision maker, identified in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8, assesses the performance of the above operating segments on the basis of EBIT, as defined in note 4.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 105 6.
Segmental information continued The All other segments category required to be disclosed under IFRS 8 has been captioned in these financial statements as EMEA Asia Pacific.
This combines information in respect of the EMEA and the Asia Pacific segments as, on the basis of their share of the Groups results and net assets, neither of these operating segments is individually reportable under IFRS 8.
Accordingly the information given in respect of this category is comparable to that previously disclosed under IAS 14 in respect of EMEA Asia Pacific.
Experian separately presents information equivalent to segment disclosures in respect of the costs of its central Group functions under the caption of Central Activities, as management believes that the reporting of this information is helpful to users of the financial statements.
Information disclosed under Central Activities includes costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Groups results.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude tax assets, cash, investments and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and related hedging derivatives.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
Information presented to meet the requirements of IFRS 8 additionally includes analysis of the Groups revenues over groups of service lines.
This is supplemented by additional voluntary disclosure of the profitability of those same groups of service lines, and is equivalent to disclosures previously provided of segmental information analysed by business segment under IAS 14.
For ease of reference, Experian continues to use the term business segments when discussing the results of groups of service lines and the four business segments for Experian are: - Credit Services: - Decision Analytics: - Marketing Services: and - Interactive.
Credit Services acquires, processes and manages large and complex databases containing the credit histories of consumers and businesses.
Decision Analytics builds on the Credit Services database information and helps clients by applying analytical tools and software to convert data held internally and other data into usable business information.
Marketing Services helps clients to acquire new customers and to manage their relationships with existing customers.
By appending hundreds of characteristics to the credit and marketing data held in databases, Marketing Services provides clients with information designed to assist them in matching the right offer or product to the relevant customer using the most appropriate communication channels.
Interactive helps customers to understand and manage their own financial information and assets as well as to make more informed purchasing decisions in areas such as financial services, shopping and education and to connect them with companies over the internet.
The North America and the UK and Ireland operating segments derive revenues from all of the Groups business segments.
The Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific segments currently do not derive revenue from the Interactive business segment.
Segment information for the full year provided to the chief operating decision maker, and reportable under IFRS 8, is set out in section a below: 106 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 6.
Segment information continued a Segment information GAAP disclosures i Income statement 1 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2010 America America Ireland Asia operating Activities continuing 3 Pacific segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 2,068 559 792 461 3,880 - 3,880 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 623 166 212 52 1,053 62 991 Net interest note 11 b - - - - - 81 81 Benchmark PBT 623 166 212 52 1,053 143 910 Exceptional items note 10 45 - 10 11 66 6 72 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 48 39 39 14 140 - 140 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 11 - 7 2 20 8 28 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 9 9 Profit loss before tax 519 127 156 25 827 166 661 1 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2009 America America Ireland Asia operating Activities continuing 3 Pacific segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 2,083 462 902 426 3,873 - 3,873 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 616 118 213 49 996 57 939 Net interest note 11 b - - - - - 96 96 Benchmark PBT 616 118 213 49 996 153 843 Exceptional items note 10 49 - 30 22 101 16 117 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 48 38 34 12 132 - 132 Goodwill adjustment 1 - - - 1 - 1 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 14 - 9 3 26 6 32 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 19 19 Tax expense on share of profits of associates 2 - - - 2 - 2 Profit loss before tax 502 80 140 12 734 156 578 1.
In t he year ended 31 March 2010, a loss before tax of US$8m arose in respect of discontinued operations, which comprised the Groups transaction processing activities in France.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, additional revenue from external customers of US$201m and profit before tax of US$26m arose in respect of these discontinued operations.
Further information on discontinued operations is shown in note 13.
Revenue from external customers arose principally from the provision of services.
There is no material inter-segment revenue.
EMEA Asia Pacific represents all other operating segments.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 107 6.
Segment information continued ii Balance sheet North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2010 America America Ireland Asia assets and Activities Group 1 2 Pacific liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,531 1,017 570 294 3,412 - 3,412 Investments in associates 216 - - 27 243 - 243 Other assets 915 704 415 348 2,382 641 3,023 Total assets 2,662 1,721 985 669 6,037 641 6,678 Total liabilities 449 155 345 216 1,165 3,076 4,241 Net assets liabilities 2,213 1,566 640 453 4,872 2,435 2,437 North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2009 America America Ireland Asia assets and Activities Group 1 2 Pacific liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,534 789 544 258 3,125 - 3,125 Investments in associates 313 - - 19 332 - 332 Other assets 1,012 567 432 299 2,310 372 2,682 Total assets 2,859 1,356 976 576 5,767 372 6,139 Total liabilities 444 123 268 225 1,060 3,180 4,240 Net assets liabilities 2,415 1,233 708 351 4,707 2,808 1,899 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Net assets Assets Liabilities Net assets Central Activities and other comprise: liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Central Activities total segment assets 203 - 203 143 - 143 Central Activities total segment liabilities - 163 163 - 221 221 Central Activities net assets liabilities 203 163 40 143 221 78 Net present value of put option in respect of Serasa minority interest - 661 661 - 424 424 Net debt 258 1,885 1,627 199 2,309 2,110 Tax 180 367 187 30 226 196 Central Activities and other 641 3,076 2,435 372 3,180 2,808 1.
Net assets liabilities for Central Activities comprise corporate head office balances including retirement benefit obligations and derivative assets and liabilities.
108 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 6.
Segment information continued iii Other segment financial information 1 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2010 America America Ireland Asia operating Activities Group 2 Pacific segments US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 42 13 19 8 82 3 85 Amortisation of intangible assets other than acquisition intangibles 96 47 28 17 188 1 189 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profits of associates 57 - - 1 58 - 58 Capital expenditure 133 65 54 38 290 24 314 1 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2009 America America Ireland Asia operating Activities Group 2 Pacific segments US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 45 9 24 9 87 3 90 Amortisation of intangible assets other than acquisition intangibles 114 41 32 11 198 - 198 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profits of associates 48 - - 4 44 - 44 Capital expenditure 126 69 52 38 285 20 305 1.
I n the year ended 31 March 2009, additional depreciation of US$8m, amortisation of US$8m and capital expenditure of US$23m arose in respect of discontinued operations, which comprised the Groups transaction processing activities in France 2010: US$nil.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 109 6.
Segment information continued 2010 2009 iv Revenue by country continuing operations US$m US$m USA 2,064 2,079 UK 784 893 Brazil 556 457 Other 476 444 Total 3,880 3,873 1.
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue from external customers in the year ended 31 March 2010 and the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Company is resident in Ireland.
Revenue with Irish external customers represents less than 1% of the Groups revenue from external customers and accordingly all the Groups revenue is attributable to foreign countries.
v Revenue by business segment continuing operations The analysis by business segment of revenue from external customers is given within note 6 b.
Non-current assets for Central Activities and deferred tax have been excluded from the analysis by country to add clarity to the presentation of this information.
The Group has no significant non-current assets located in Ireland.
110 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 6.
Segment information continued b Information on business segments including non-GAAP disclosures 1 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Interactive Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2010 Services Analytics Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 1,669 441 734 1,036 3,880 - 3,880 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax - continuing operations EBIT 605 119 86 243 1,053 62 991 Net interest note 11 b - - - - - 81 81 Benchmark PBT 605 119 86 243 1,053 143 910 Exceptional items note 10 20 5 33 8 66 6 72 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 57 6 45 32 140 - 140 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 3 equity incentive plans - - - - - 28 28 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 9 9 Profit loss before tax 528 108 8 203 847 186 661 1 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Interactive Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2009 Services Analytics Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 1,666 487 770 950 3,873 - 3,873 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax - continuing operations EBIT 554 142 88 212 996 57 939 Net interest note 11 b - - - - - 96 96 Benchmark PBT 554 142 88 212 996 153 843 Exceptional items note 10 41 16 23 9 89 28 117 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 54 6 40 32 132 - 132 Goodwill adjustment - - 1 - 1 - 1 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 3 equity incentive plans - - - - - 32 32 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 19 19 Tax expense on share of profits of associates 2 - - - 2 - 2 Profit loss before tax 457 120 24 171 772 194 578 1.
No allocation by business segment is made for charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans as the underlying data is maintained only to provide an allocation by operating segment.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 111 7.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used in these financial statements are as follows: Average Closing 2010 2009 2010 2009 2008 Sterling : US dollar 1.58 1.69 1.52 1.43 1.99 US dollar : Brazilian real 1.88 1.96 1.79 2.30 1.75 Euro : US dollar 1.41 1.41 1.35 1.33 1.58 Assets and liabilities of undertakings whose functional currency is not the US dollar are translated into US dollars at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Their income statements are translated into US dollars at average exchange rates unless these averages are not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions.
An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to foreign exchange risk is given in note 5.
Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging: 2010 2009 i Expenses by nature US$m US$m Net operating lease rental expense 51 59 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 85 90 Amortisation of intangible assets 329 330 Write down on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 3 1 Other losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 1 - Employee benefit costs note 9 1,430 1,428 Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative expenses, except for the amortisation of databases which is charged to cost of sales.
2010 2009 ii Fees payable to the Companys auditor US$m US$m Audit and assurance services: Audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 1 1 Audit of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 3 3 Other assurance services, including the review of the Groups half-yearly financial report 1 1 5 5 Other services: Taxation services 4 5 Services in respect of the demerger - 4 4 9 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 9 14 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance statement.
112 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Employee benefit costs and employee numbers Aggregate employee costs for the continuing operations of the Group Notes 2010 2009 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,158 1,163 Social security costs 165 165 Share-based payments 29 63 55 Pension costs - defined benefit plans 30 10 10 Pension costs - defined contribution plans 34 35 Total continuing operations 1,430 1,428 Average number of employees including executive directors in the continuing operations of the Group 2010 2009 Full time Part time Full time Full time Part time Full time equivalent equivalent North America 5,480 145 5,553 5,768 302 5,919 Latin America 2,548 82 2,589 2,355 228 2,469 UK & Ireland 3,389 157 3,468 3,549 99 3,599 EMEA Asia Pacific 2,938 99 2,988 2,575 104 2,627 Total operating segments 14,355 483 14,598 14,247 733 14,614 Central Activities 90 3 92 85 3 87 Total continuing operations 14,445 486 14,690 14,332 736 14,701 Remuneration of key management personnel 2010 2009 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 12 12 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 13 13 Total continuing operations 26 26 Key management personnel comprises the board of directors.
The amount included in respect of share-based payments includes operating and exceptional costs for previous GUS awards and the one-off demerger awards.
Further details of directors' remuneration are given in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
Exceptional and other non-GAAP measures 2010 2009 US$m US$m Exceptional items Restructuring costs 41 92 Loss arising in connection with arrangements with FARES 4 - Cessation of bureau activities 3 15 Loss on disposal of businesses 24 3 Demerger and related restructuring costs - 7 Total exceptional items 72 117 Other non-GAAP measures Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 140 132 Goodwill adjustment - 1 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 28 32 Financing fair value remeasurements note 11 9 19 Total other non-GAAP measures 177 146 Exceptional items and other non-GAAP measures are in respect of continuing operations.
Exceptional items are charged to administrative expenses.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 113 10.
Exceptional and other non-GAAP measures continued Exceptional items Expenditure of US$41m 2009: US$92m arose in the year in connection with the Groups strategic programme of cost efficiency measures.
Of this US$21m 2009: US$51m related to redundancy, US$17m 2009: US$34m related to offshoring activities, infrastructure consolidations and other restructuring activities and US$3m 2009: US$7m related to asset write-offs.
During the year, Experian recognised a loss of US$4m in connection with arrangements with FARES primarily as a result of the reclassification through the Group income statement of earlier losses in respect of holdings of First Advantage Corporation Class A common stock.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, and as previously announced, the Group completed the closure of its Canadian credit bureau and terminated its joint venture bureau in Japan.
Charges associated with the closure of the bureaux in the year ended 31 March 2009 included US$13m of fixed asset write-offs, including the related investment in associate, and a further US$2m of closure costs.
The loss on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2010 primarily arose as a result of the disposal of the National Business Database in North America.
Demerger and related restructuring costs in the year ended 31 March 2009 comprised legal and professional fees, together with costs in connection with the cessation of a number of subsidiaries of the former GUS plc.
Cash outflows in respect of exceptional items are analysed in note 35 h. Other non-GAAP measures IFRS requires that, on acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on judgments about their value and economic life.
A goodwill adjustment of US$1m arose in the year ended 31 March 2009 under IFRS 3 Business Combinations on the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses on prior years acquisitions.
The corresponding tax benefit reduced the tax charge for that year by US$1m.
Charges in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans relate to one-off grants made to senior management and at all staff levels at the time of the demerger, under a number of equity incentive plans.
The cost of these one-off grants is being charged to the Group income statement over the five years from flotation in October 2006, but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
The cost of all other grants is being charged to the Group income statement and included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Groups derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS.
Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements, together with gains and losses on put options in respect of acquisitions, are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within finance income and finance expense in the Group income statement.
114 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 11.
Net finance costs 2010 2009 US$m US$m a Net finance costs Interest income: Bank deposits and money market funds 17 16 Interest differential on derivatives 2 12 Expected return on pension plan assets 47 69 Interest income 66 97 Financing fair value gains: Fair value gains on borrowings attributable to currency risk 16 - Gains on interest rate swaps - fair value hedges 3 53 Fair value gains on non-hedging derivatives 53 - Foreign exchange transaction gains 58 11 Movement in fair value of Serasa put option note 5 - 21 Financing fair value gains 130 85 Finance income 196 182 Interest expense: Bank loans and overdrafts 19 41 Eurobonds and notes 41 61 Commitment and facility utilisation fees 2 1 Unwind of discount on provisions 5 6 Interest differential on derivatives 31 30 Finance lease interest expense 1 2 Interest expense on pension plan liabilities 48 52 Interest expense 147 193 Financing fair value losses: Fair value losses on borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 4 51 Losses on cross currency swaps - fair value hedges 22 - Fair value losses on non-hedging derivatives - 15 Movement in fair value of Serasa put option note 5 113 - Financing fair value losses 139 66 Finance expense 286 259 Net finance costs 90 77 b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT Net finance costs 90 77 Financing fair value remeasurements 9 19 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 81 96 c Financing fair value remeasurements included in net finance costs Financing fair value gains 130 85 Financing fair value losses 139 66 Charge credit in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 9 19 An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to interest rate risk is given in note 5.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 115 12.
Tax expense 2010 2009 US$m US$m a Analysis of tax expense in the Group income statement Current tax: UK corporation tax on income for the year - - Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 28 1 28 Non-UK tax: Tax on income for the year 108 54 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 - 118 54 Total current tax charge for the year 119 26 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 98 61 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 3 Total deferred tax credit charge for the year 102 58 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 17 84 The total tax expense comprises: UK tax 103 43 Non-UK tax 120 127 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 17 84 b Tax reconciliations 2010 2009 US$m US$m i Reconciliation of the tax expense in the Group income statement Profit before tax 661 578 Add: tax expense on share of profits of associates - 2 Adjusted profit before tax 661 580 Adjusted profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 185 162 Effects of: Other adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 7 31 Income not taxable 30 25 Expenses not deductible 38 53 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 105 1 Tax expense on share of profits of associates - 2 Effect of different tax rates in non-UK businesses 78 74 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 17 84 The effective rate of tax, after adjusting for the net income from associates, is 2.6% 2009: 14.5%, based on the profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2010 of US$661m 2009: US$578m and the associated tax charge of US$17m 2009: US$84m.
The effective tax rate for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% and the differences are explained above.
116 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 12.
Tax expense continued 2010 2009 US$m US$m ii Reconciliation of the tax expense in the Group income statement to the Benchmark tax charge Group tax expense 17 84 Add: one-off tax credit 105 20 Add: tax relief on exceptional items 33 25 Add: tax relief on other non-GAAP measures 29 53 Tax expense on share of profits of associates - 2 Tax on Benchmark PBT 184 184 The effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT of US$910m 2009: US$843m and the associated tax charge of US$184m 2009: US$184m, excluding the effect of a one-off tax credit of US$105m 2009: US$20m, is 20.2% 2009: 21.8%.
The one-off deferred tax credit in the year ended 31 March 2010 involves UK entities that are still part of the Group but is excluded from the calculation of the effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT in view of the size and the non-recurring nature of this benefit.
The one-off corporation tax credit in the year ended 31 March 2009 was excluded from the calculation of the effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT as it related to arrangements involving entities no longer part of the Group.
A further tax credit of US$24m arose in the year ended 31 March 2010 following resolution of historic positions and the tax expense of US$17m in the Group income statement and the tax on Benchmark PBT of US$184m are both stated after this credit.
c Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
d Tax recognised in other comprehensive income Charge Deferred tax Charge Year ended 31 March 2010 credit credit after before tax tax US$m US$m US$m Fair value gains - available for sale financial assets 7 2 5 Actuarial losses - defined benefit pension plans 28 8 20 Currency translation differences 218 9 209 Reclassification of cumulative fair value losses - available for sale financial assets 5 - 5 Other comprehensive income 202 3 199 Charge Deferred tax Charge Year ended 31 March 2009 before tax after tax US$m US$m US$m Fair value losses - available for sale financial assets 8 - 8 Actuarial losses - defined benefit pension plans 202 56 146 Currency translation differences 428 - 428 Reclassification of cumulative exchange gain - divestments 3 - 3 Other comprehensive income 641 56 585 e Tax credit recognised in equity on transactions with owners In the year ended 31 March 2010, tax relating to employee share incentive plans of US$12m 2009: US$4m was recognised in equity and reported as appropriate within transactions with owners.
This amount comprised current tax of US$4m 2009: US$1m and deferred tax of US$8m 2009: US$3m.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 117 13.
Discontinued operations The Group disposed of its transaction processing activities in France on 31 October 2008 and the results and cash flows of that business are accordingly classified as discontinued.
Results for discontinued operations 2010 2009 US$m US$m Revenue - 201 Cost of sales - 147 Gross profit - 54 Distribution costs - 6 Administrative expenses - 49 Operating expenses - 55 Loss for discontinued operations - 1 Loss profit on disposal of discontinued operations: Loss profit on disposal 8 27 Tax charge in respect of loss profit on disposal - 14 Loss profit after tax on disposal of discontinued operations 8 13 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 8 12 There was a net cash inflow on the disposal of the transaction processing activities in France of US$191m in the year ended 31 March 2009 on the completion of the sale and a further cash outflow of US$17m in the year ended 31 March 2010 on the settlement of additional related costs.
These cash flows are disclosed within net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations in the Group cash flow statement.
Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 2010 2009 US$m US$m From operating activities - 10 From investing activities - 10 Exchange and other movements - 3 Net decrease in cash equivalents in discontinued operations - 17 118 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 14.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in employee trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potentially dilutive effect of employee share incentive plans.
The earnings figures used in the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
2010 2009 Basic earnings per share: US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 59.0 48.0 Discontinued operations 0.8 1.2 Continuing operations 59.8 46.8 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 7.3 15.5 Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 67.1 62.3 2010 2009 Diluted earnings per share: US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 58.1 47.5 Discontinued operations 0.8 1.2 Continuing operations 58.9 46.3 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 7.2 15.3 Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 66.1 61.6 2010 2009 Earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc: US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 600 486 Discontinued operations 8 12 Continuing operations 608 474 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 73 157 Benchmark earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc non-GAAP measure 681 631 2010 2009 Earnings attributable to minority interests: US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 36 20 Add back of amortisation of acquisition intangibles attributable to the minority, net of tax 9 8 Benchmark earnings attributable to minority interests non-GAAP measure 45 28 2010 2009 Reconciliation of benchmark earnings to profit for the year: US$m US$m Overall benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 726 659 Loss profit from discontinued operations 8 12 Loss from exceptional and other non-GAAP measures 82 165 Profit for the year 636 506 2010 2009 Weighted average number of ordinary shares: m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 1,015 1,013 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 15 12 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,030 1,025 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 119 15.
Dividends 2010 2009 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid during the year: First interim - paid in January 2010 2009: January 2009 7.00 71 6.75 68 Second interim - paid in July 2009 2009: July 2008 13.25 135 12.00 121 Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares 20.25 206 18.75 189 Full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 23.00 20.00 203 A dividend of 16 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 23 July 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 June 2010 and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This dividend, together with the first interim dividend of 7 US cents per ordinary share paid in January 2010, comprises the full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 23 US cents.
Unless shareholders elect by 25 June 2010 to receive US dollars, their dividends will be paid in sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of the exchange rate from US dollars to sterling on 2 July 2010.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place as part of the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group in October 2006, shareholders in the Company can elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the IAS election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to listing on the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS election arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made an IAS election, or are deemed to have made an IAS election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
The employee trusts waived their entitlements to dividends of US$2m 2009: US$2m.
Goodwill 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 3,125 3,605 Differences on exchange 278 521 Additions through business combinations note 36 a 11 101 Reduction in goodwill relating to tax losses note 10 - 1 Disposals 2 59 At 31 March 3,412 3,125 Additions through business combinations are stated after a decrease in goodwill of US$5m 2009: increase of US$11m in respect of adjustments to contingent consideration on prior year acquisitions.
There have been no impairments of goodwill in the current or prior years and, at the balance sheet date, goodwill has been allocated to CGUs as follows: North America US$1,531m 2009: US$1,534m, Latin America US$1,017m 2009: US$789m, UK & Ireland US$570m 2009: US$544m, EMEA US$254m 2009: US$227m and Asia Pacific US$40m 2009: US$31m.
Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation and annual impairment testing are given in note 4.
120 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 17.
Other intangible assets Databases Internal use Internally Acquisition Total software generated intangibles software US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2009 855 145 195 1,062 2,257 Differences on exchange 57 6 7 129 199 Additions through business combinations note 36 a - 1 1 20 22 Other additions 168 43 45 - 256 Disposal of businesses 34 - 4 8 46 Other disposals 128 - 67 - 195 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 37 - - - 60 60 At 31 March 2010 918 195 177 1,143 2,433 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2009 498 83 120 367 1,068 Differences on exchange 29 4 5 25 63 Charge for the year 142 22 25 140 329 Disposal of businesses 16 - 4 7 27 Other disposals 128 - 61 - 189 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 37 - - - 44 44 At 31 March 2010 525 109 85 481 1,200 Net Book Value at 31 March 2009 357 62 75 695 1,189 Net Book Value at 31 March 2010 393 86 92 662 1,233 Acquisition intangibles includes the net book value of customer and advertiser relationships of US$386m together with other assets which comprise trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology.
Databases Internal use Internally Acquisition Total software generated intangibles software US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2008 887 169 251 1,200 2,507 Differences on exchange 113 26 52 189 380 Additions through business combinations 2 - - 61 63 Other additions 153 41 44 - 238 Disposal of businesses - 18 41 1 60 Other disposals 74 21 7 9 111 At 31 March 2009 855 145 195 1,062 2,257 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2008 504 99 143 288 1,034 Differences on exchange 72 13 33 44 162 Charge for the year 139 30 34 132 335 Disposal of businesses - 13 18 1 32 Other disposals 73 20 6 8 107 At 31 March 2009 498 83 120 367 1,068 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 383 70 108 912 1,473 Net Book Value at 31 March 2009 357 62 75 695 1,189 Acquisition intangibles includes the net book value of customer and advertiser relationships of US$487m together with other assets which comprise trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 121 18.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2009 272 123 523 918 Differences on exchange 17 - 24 41 Additions through business combinations note 36 a - - 2 2 Other additions 3 1 54 58 Disposal of businesses - - 3 3 Other disposals 36 1 80 117 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 37 - - 4 4 At 31 March 2010 256 123 516 895 Depreciation At 1 April 2009 67 31 341 439 Differences on exchange 2 - 11 13 Charge for the year 7 6 72 85 Disposal of businesses - - 2 2 Other disposals 10 1 78 89 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 37 - - 2 2 At 31 March 2010 66 36 342 444 Net Book Value at 31 March 2009 205 92 182 479 Net Book Value at 31 March 2010 190 87 174 451 Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2008 335 122 680 1,137 Differences on exchange 64 - 97 161 Additions through business combinations - - 1 1 Other additions 1 2 74 77 Disposal of businesses 2 - 96 98 Other disposals 1 1 36 38 Transfers 3 - 3 - At 31 March 2009 272 123 523 918 Depreciation At 1 April 2008 68 26 439 533 Differences on exchange 9 - 64 73 Charge for the year 8 6 80 94 Disposal of businesses - - 83 83 Disposals - 1 31 32 At 31 March 2009 67 31 341 439 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 267 96 241 604 Net Book Value at 31 March 2009 205 92 182 479 The net book value of assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$8m 2009: US$9m.
At the end of such agreements the Group has the option to purchase the equipment at a beneficial price.
122 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 19.
Investments in associates 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 332 295 Differences on exchange 1 1 Additions 7 29 Share of profit after tax 58 42 Dividends received 41 28 Disposal of assets by FARES 112 - Write-down of investment in Japan - 5 At 31 March 243 332 Investments in associates at 31 March 2010 include goodwill of US$237m 2009: US$224m.
The Groups share of cumulative retained profits of associated undertakings at 31 March 2010 is US$172m 2009: US$155m.
FARES The Groups principal interest in associated undertakings is a 20% holding of FARES, which is incorporated in the USA.
The balance of the capital of FARES is held by The First American Corporation FAC.
At 31 March 2010, the Groups share of the assets of FARES amounted to US$383m 2009: US$500m and its share of liabilities is US$176m 2009: US$202m.
The Groups share of the revenue of FARES for the year ended 31 March 2010 is US$263m 2009: US$237m and its share of profit after tax is US$56m 2009: US$46m.
In October 2009, the Group announced the following arrangements in respect of FARES and in respect of FADV, an associate of FARES: - Following an offer by FAC to acquire the issued and outstanding shares of FADV Class A common stock in consideration for shares in FAC, Experian has elected to tender its direct and indirect holdings in FADV Class A common stock for shares in FAC.
Experian directly and indirectly holds some 3.8m shares of FADV Class A common stock with a value of approximately US$69m and, on exchange and conversion, will hold some 2% of the total issued share capital of FAC.
- Experian has agreed in principle that FARES will dispose of its interests in two business assets the plant management and imaged documents businesses to FAC with Experian receiving a cash consideration on completion of US$48m.
- Experian and FAC have agreed in principle to amend the buy-out arrangements governing Experians 20% interest in the balance of FARES excluding the FARES interest in FADV and the two business assets disposed of to FAC.
Under the amended terms, if the buy-out is exercised in 2010, cash consideration of some US$314m will be payable to Experian by 31 December 2010.
Thereafter the consideration payable for Experians 20% interest in FARES will revert to a set valuation multiple, consistent with the current terms.
In connection with these arrangements: - Experian received cash of US$70m from the sale during the year of all the shares in FAC which it received in exchange for its direct and indirect holdings in FADV Class A common stock.
- FARES disposed of its interests in the two business assets and Experian received cash consideration of US$48m in the year ended 31 March 2010.
- Experian received notice from FAC in respect of the exercise of its buy-out option on 22 April 2010 and will accordingly report the results of FARES as a discontinued operation in the Group financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2011.
Any gain on disposal will also be reported in the Group financial statements for that year.
- Experian recognised an exceptional loss of US$4m primarily as a result of the reclassification through the Group income statement of earlier losses in respect of the holdings of FADV Class A common stock and a fair value gain of US$9m on the FAC option which is reported within financing fair value remeasurements note 11.
Cash inflows of US$118m in respect of the transactions completed in the year ended 31 March 2010 are disclosed within net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations in the Group cash flow statement.
Other associates The Group's interests in other associated undertakings are not individually material.
The additions of US$7m during the year ended 31 March 2010 are principally in respect of the arrangements with seven of Indias leading financial services institutions to operate a credit information bureau in India.
As part of the application process, Experian can only hold a maximum of 49% of the equity of the licensed entity and this has been a key factor in classifying this investment as an associate.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 123 20.
Inventories 2010 2009 US$m US$m Work in progress 1 2 Finished goods 2 2 3 4 21.
Trade and other receivables a The analysis of trade and other receivables reported in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 589 - 546 - Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 38 - 25 - Less: other provisions in respect of trade receivables 13 - 17 - Trade receivables - net 538 - 504 - Amounts owed by associates 4 - 2 - VAT recoverable 4 - 1 - Other prepayments and accrued income 254 8 231 5 800 8 738 5 The accounting policies for loans and receivables set out in note 4 have been applied to financial instruments of US$613m 2009: US$590m within the above items.
VAT recoverable of US$4m 2009: US$1m and prepayments of US$191m 2009: US$152m are not regarded as financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other receivables and the book value stated above.
All noncurrent trade and other receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
b The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 294 5 312 4 Sterling 198 - 177 - Brazilian real 126 - 89 - Euro 100 - 93 - Other 82 3 67 1 800 8 738 5 c Trade receivables of US$340m 2009: US$366m were neither past due nor impaired and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2010 2009 US$m US$m New customers of less than six months standing 31 24 Existing customers of more than six months standing with no defaults in the past 308 336 Existing customers of more than six months standing with defaults in the past which were fully recovered 1 6 340 366 None of these trade receivables has been renegotiated in the year 2009: US$nil.
124 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 21.
Trade and other receivables continued d Trade receivables of US$182m 2009: US$134m were past due but not considered impaired and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2010 2009 US$m US$m Up to three months 159 108 Three to six months 15 20 Over six months 8 6 182 134 e Trade receivables of US$54m 2009: US$29m were considered partially impaired and provided for and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2010 2009 US$m US$m Up to three months 12 9 Three to six months 15 9 Over six months 27 11 54 29 Impairment provision 38 25 16 4 The other classes within trade and other receivables at the balance sheet dates do not include any impaired assets.
f Movements in the impairment provision are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 25 24 Differences on exchange 2 3 Provision for receivables impairment 29 13 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 12 6 Unused amounts reversed 6 3 At 31 March 38 25 The impairment provision has been determined by reference to the age of the receivable and an assessment of the portion of the receivable expected to be recovered.
Amounts charged and credited to the Group income statement in respect of this provision are included in administrative expenses.
Other provisions in respect of trade receivables mainly comprise credit note provisions.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 125 22.
Cash and cash equivalents a The analysis of cash and cash equivalents reported in the Group balance sheet is as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 175 127 Short-term investments - 2 175 129 The accounting policies for loans and receivables set out in note 4 have been applied to the above items.
The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2010 is 4.8% 2009: 6.6%.
There is no material difference between the fair value of cash and cash equivalents and the book value stated above.
b Cash and cash equivalents are further analysed by external credit rating where the balance with a counterparty is greater than US$2m: 2010 2009 US$m US$m A rated 86 66 B rated 69 54 Counterparty holding of more than US$2m 155 120 Counterparty holding of less than US$2m 20 9 175 129 The above analysis does not include bank deposits of US$44m 2009: US$29m being amounts held with an A rated counterparty as collateral against derivative contracts and which are reported within other financial assets see note 27 a.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 110 - 104 - VAT and other taxes payable 31 - 32 - Social security costs 95 - 78 - Accruals and deferred income 767 8 751 17 Other creditors 59 6 30 25 1,062 14 995 42 The accounting policies for other financial liabilities set out in note 4 have been applied to financial instruments of US$773m 2009: US$480m within the above items.
VAT and other tax payable of US$31m 2009: US$32m, social security costs of US$95m 2009: US$78m and accruals and deferred income of US$177m 2009: US$447m are not regarded as financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other payables and the book value stated above.
All the noncurrent trade and other payables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
Loans and borrowings a The analysis of loans and borrowings reported in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m 203m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 - - 308 - 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 - 552 - 518 500m 4.75% Guaranteed notes 2020 - 681 - - Bank loans - 598 - 1,480 Bank overdrafts 12 - 2 - Finance lease obligations 5 3 4 5 17 1,834 314 2,003 126 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 24.
Loans and borrowings continued The accounting policies for financial instruments set out in note 4 have been applied to the above items.
There is no material difference between the carrying values of the Groups loans and borrowings and their fair values.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group issued 4.75% Guaranteed notes 2020 with a nominal value of 500m at an issue price of 99.914%.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 with a par value of 203m were redeemed at their date of maturity 2009: 147m.
The effective interest rate for the bonds and notes approximates to the nominal rate indicated above.
The effective interest rate for overdrafts at 31 March 2010 is 1.5% 2009: 2.0%.
Other than finance lease obligations, all the borrowings of the Group shown above are unsecured.
Finance lease obligations are effectively secured as the rights to the leased assets revert to the lessor in the event of default.
b Analysis of loans and borrowings by contractual repricing dates: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Less than one year 615 1,794 One to two years 3 3 Two to three years - 2 Three to four years 552 - Four to five years - 518 Over five years 681 - 1,851 2,317 c Analysis of loans and borrowings by currency: 2010 2009 US$m US$m US dollar 941 1,480 Sterling 561 827 Brazilian real 7 9 Euro 342 1 1,851 2,317 The above analysis takes account of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps.
d Finance lease obligations - minimum lease payments due: 2010 2009 US$m US$m In less than one year 5 5 In two to five years 4 6 Total minimum lease payments 9 11 Future finance charges on finance leases 1 2 Present value of finance leases 8 9 The present value of finance leases falls due: In less than one year 5 4 In two to five years 3 5 Present value of finance leases 8 9 e Borrowing facilities At 31 March 2010, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of US$1,932m 2009: US$1,050m which expire more than two years after the balance sheet date.
These facilities are in place for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 127 25.
Analysis of net debt non-GAAP measure 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 163 127 Bank deposits with maturity greater than three months 44 29 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 2 28 Debt due within one year - 295 Finance leases 8 9 Debt due after more than one year 1,824 1,990 Net debt 1,627 2,110 Net debt by balance sheet caption: Cash and cash equivalents 175 129 Loans and borrowings current 17 314 Loans and borrowings non-current 1,834 2,003 Net debt by balance sheet caption 1,676 2,188 Bank deposits within financial assets 44 29 Accrued interest 7 21 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 2 28 Net debt 1,627 2,110 26.
Available for sale financial assets a Available for sale financial assets reported in the Group balance sheet comprise: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Listed equity securities - UK sterling denominated 32 21 Listed equity securities - North America US dollar denominated 1 5 33 26 The accounting policies for available for sale financial assets set out in note 4 have been applied to the above items.
b Movements on available for sale financial assets are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 26 42 Differences on exchange 2 8 Net disposals 2 - Fair value gains losses 7 8 At 31 March 33 26 128 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 27.
Other financial assets and liabilities a Analysis of other financial assets and liabilities reported in the Group balance sheet: Current Non-current Current Non-current Assets 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Bank deposits - 44 - 29 Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings - interest rate swaps - 43 14 32 Derivatives used for hedging - 43 14 32 Non-hedging derivatives - equity swaps 16 1 - - Non-hedging derivatives - foreign exchange contracts 2 - 7 - Assets at fair value through profit and loss 18 1 7 - Derivative financial instruments 18 44 21 32 Other derivatives 9 - - - Total other financial assets 27 88 21 61 The bank deposits included above comprise amounts held with an A rated counterparty as collateral against derivative contracts see note 22.
Current Non-current Current Non-current Liabilities 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings - cross currency swaps - 35 - - Derivatives used for hedging - 35 - - Non-hedging derivatives - equity swaps - - 1 1 Non-hedging derivatives - foreign exchange contracts 5 - 12 - Non-hedging derivatives - interest rate swaps 15 50 9 74 Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 20 50 22 75 Derivative financial instruments 20 85 22 75 Put option in respect of Serasa minority interest - 661 - 424 Put option in respect of other minority interests - 8 - - Total other financial liabilities 20 754 22 499 The accounting policies for financial instruments set out in note 4 have been applied as appropriate to the above items.
Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Group's hedging instruments are disclosed in note 11.
There is no material difference between the fair values of these assets and liabilities and the book values stated above.
There are put and call options associated with the shares held by the minority shareholders in Serasa and these are exercisable for a period of five years from June 2012. b The fair value and notional principal amounts at the balance sheet dates in respect of the Groups derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Interest rate swaps 43 507 65 1,275 46 770 83 1,570 Cross currency swaps - - 35 707 - - - - Equity swaps 17 47 - - - 29 2 11 Foreign exchange contracts 2 188 5 176 7 262 12 380 62 742 105 2,158 53 1,061 97 1,961 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 129 27.
Other financial assets and liabilities continued c Maturity of derivative financial liabilities - contractual undiscounted cash flows: Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2010 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis interest rate swaps 30 10 7 14 2 - 21 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 363 - - - - - 363 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 364 - - - - - 364 Outflows for cross currency swaps 13 14 14 14 14 776 845 Inflows for cross currency swaps 31 31 31 31 31 817 972 Settled on a gross basis 19 17 17 17 17 41 128 Cash outflows inflows 11 7 24 31 15 41 107 Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2009 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 14 22 11 - 5 - 42 Equity swaps 1 1 - - - - 2 Settled on a net basis 15 23 11 - 5 - 44 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 642 - - - - - 642 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 650 - - - - - 650 Settled on a gross basis 8 - - - - - 8 Cash outflows inflows 7 23 11 - 5 - 36 The table above analyses the Groups derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, they differ from the carrying values and fair values.
130 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 28.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities - contractual undiscounted cash flows Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2010 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 60 61 681 568 32 818 2,220 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 27 c 30 10 7 14 2 - 21 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 27 c 19 17 17 17 17 41 128 Put options in respect of Serasa and other minority interests - - 803 14 - - 817 Trade and other payables 521 6 - - - - 527 592 60 1,460 551 17 777 3,457 Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2009 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 321 32 30 1,509 522 - 2,414 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 27 c 15 23 11 - 5 - 44 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 27 c 8 - - - - - 8 Put option in respect of Serasa minority interest - - - 595 - - 595 Trade and other payables 449 18 12 2 1 4 486 777 73 53 2,106 518 4 3,531 Cash flows in respect of VAT, other tax payable, social security costs and accruals are excluded from the analysis for trade and other payables.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 131 29.
Share-based payment arrangements The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
Option, award and share prices are disclosed in sterling as this is the currency in which the price of ordinary shares in Experian plc is quoted.
a Share options i Summary of arrangements Experian Share Option Plan Experian Sharesave Plans Nature Grant of options Save as you earn plans Vesting conditions: Service period 3 and 4 years 1 year for US plan 3 or 5 years for other plans 1 Performance Other n a Saving obligation over the vesting period Maximum term 10 years 1, 3.5 or 5.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution 3 Expected departures 5% 1 year - 5% at grant date 3 3 years - 30% 3 5 years - 50% Option exercise price Market price over the 15% discount to market price on the date of grant for US 2 calculation 3 dealing days preceding plan the grant 20% discount to market price over 3 dealing days preceding the grant for other plans 1.
Options granted to directors of the Company after 1 April 2009 have been subject to performance conditions based on the growth in benchmark earnings per share.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of an Experian plc share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
The stated values for expected departures include an assumption about participants who will not meet the savings requirement of the plans.
In addition, fully vested options exist under The North America Stock Option Plan, a former GUS share option plan, and these had a maximum term of six years from the date of grant.
132 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Share-based payment arrangements continued ii Information relating to option valuation techniques For the above plans the Black-Scholes model is used to determine an appropriate value of the option grants and inputs into the model are calculated as follows: Expected volatility Calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of the expected life.
Volatility in the first year is assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date.
Volatility for year 4 and beyond is assumed to remain at the long run historic volatility.
Linear interpolation is assumed for years 2 and 3.
Expected dividend yield Yields are based on the current consensus analyst forecast figures at the time of grant.
The inputs utilised are an average of the forecast over the next three financial years.
Risk-free rate Rates are obtained from the UK Government Debt Management Office website which details historical prices and yields for gilt strips.
Expected option life to exercise Options under the Experian Share Option Plan vest after 3 years or 4 years.
The expected life is 4 years for the options that vest after 3 years and 4.85 years for the options that vest after 4 years.
Options under the Experian Sharesave Plans have expected lives of either 3 or 5 years.
Share price on grant date The closing price on the day the options were granted.
Option exercise price Exercise price as stated in the terms of each award.
iii Weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models Experian Share Option Plan Experian Sharesave Plans Arrangements 2010 2009 2010 2009 Share price on grant date 4.66 3.29 4.39 3.65 Exercise price 4.66 3.29 3.51 2.91 Expected volatility 39.6% 45.2% 40.8% 36.0% Expected dividend yield 2.7% 3.8% 2.8% 3.0% Risk-free rate 2.9% 3.1% 3.2% 5.1% Expected option life to exercise 4 years 3.5 years 3.8 years 3.8 years Fair value 1.30 0.92 1.54 1.26 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 133 29.
Share-based payment arrangements continued iv Movement in number of options Number of Weighted Number of Weighted options average options average exercise exercise price price 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m Options outstanding at 1 April 33.8 4.37 30.1 4.85 New grants 12.3 4.59 10.1 3.10 1 Forfeitures 2.8 4.67 4.7 3.65 2 Exercised options 7.2 4.40 1.4 4.96 Expired options 0.8 4.38 0.3 4.42 Options outstanding at 31 March 35.3 4.42 33.8 4.37 Options exercisable at 31 March 8.0 4.95 6.4 4.27 1.
For arrangements which are Save as you earn in nature, this includes non-leavers who have not completed the savings requirement.
The weighted average share price of options exercised during the year was 5.69 2009: 4.00. v Details of options outstanding At 31 March 2010 Range of Number Weighted exercise of average Weighted average remaining lives prices options exercise price m Expected years Contractual years 2-3 2.4 2.91 2.1 2.5 3-4 8.0 3.25 2.1 7.8 4-5 15.9 4.64 2.4 7.4 5-6 8.0 5.39 1.0 5.2 6-7 1.0 6.12 1.4 7.2 35.3 4.42 At 31 March 2009 Range of Number Weighted exercise of average Weighted average remaining lives prices options exercise price m Expected years Contractual years 2-3 2.8 2.91 3.1 3.5 3-4 10.4 3.33 2.4 7.7 4-5 8.6 4.63 0.6 4.2 5-6 10.9 5.35 1.7 5.9 6-7 1.1 6.12 2.4 8.2 33.8 4.37 134 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Share-based payment arrangements continued b Share awards i Summary of arrangements Experian Co-Investment Experian Reinvestment Experian Performance Experian Free Shares Plan Plan Share Plan Plan and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan Nature of 1 1 arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 4 years 3 to 5 years 3 to 5 years 3 years Performance 100% - Benchmark 50% - Benchmark 50% or 75% - n a profit performance profit performance Benchmark profit of Group assessed of Group assessed performance of Group against specified against specified assessed against 2 3 3 targets targets specified targets 50% - n a 50% or 25% Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a 4 comparator group Expected outcome of Benchmark profit Benchmark profit Benchmark profit n a meeting performance 100% 92% 91% criteria at grant date Unconditional TSR range from 100% 30% to 61% Maximum term 4 years 5 years 5 years 3.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Expected departures 5% 5% 5% 15% at grant date 1.
T he grant date is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the quantity of the shares award is determined but the underlying value of the award is known at the grant date, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome at the date of their issue to participants.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Co-Investment Plan requires Benchmark PBT growth to exceed 6%p.
a. over a 3 year period for the 2008 award and 3%p.
a. over a 3 year period for the 2009 award.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
This is not a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2 'Share-Based Payments'.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Reinvestment Plan and Experian Performance Share Plan in prior years required Benchmark PBT growth to exceed 7% over a 3 year period with the condition fully satisfied if Benchmark PBT growth is 14%.
In the case of Performance Share Plan Awards after 1 April 2009, the growth percentages are 4% and 8% respectively.
This is not a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The Experian Performance Share Plan TSR condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the 3 year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 135 29.
Share-based payment arrangements continued ii Information relating to share grant valuation techniques Share grants are valued by reference to the market price on the day of award with no modifications made for dividend distributions or other factors as participants are entitled to dividend distributions on awarded shares.
iii Movement in number of share awards outstanding Number of Number of awards awards 2010 2009 m m At 1 April 20.8 23.7 New grants 4.4 0.7 Forfeitures 0.6 1.8 Lapsed awards 1.8 0.6 Vesting 6.6 1.2 At 31 March 16.2 20.8 Share awards granted in the year had a weighted average fair value of 4.65 2009: 3.69. c Cost of share-based compensation 2010 2009 US$m US$m Share options 12 10 Share awards 46 43 Expense recognised all equity settled 58 53 Costs of associated social security obligations 5 2 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 63 55 Reported as follows: Employee cost within Benchmark PBT 32 21 Charge in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans excluded from Benchmark PBT 26 32 Expense recognised all equity settled 58 53 Costs of associated social security obligations included in Benchmark PBT 3 2 Costs of associated social security obligations excluded from Benchmark PBT 2 - Total expense recognised in Group income statement 63 55 The costs of the social security obligations include the costs of derivatives, in the form of equity swaps, entered into in connection with such obligations.
136 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations a Pension arrangements The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
A defined benefit pension plan defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution pension plan defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund.
The Groups principal defined benefit plan is the Experian Pension Scheme which provides benefits for certain UK employees, but was closed to new entrants in the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Group provides a defined contribution plan, the Experian Money Purchase Pension Plan, to other eligible UK employees.
Both plans are governed by trust deeds which ensure that their finances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
In North America and Latin America, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
There are no other material funded pension arrangements.
The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly.
A full actuarial funding valuation of this plan is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2007 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach retirement due to the ageing active membership of the plan.
There was a surplus at the date of the 2007 full actuarial valuation and accordingly no deficit repayment contributions are currently required.
The next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2010.
The Group has had arrangements in place for a number of years designed to ensure that certain directors and senior managers affected by the earnings cap are placed in broadly the same position as those who are not.
The Group also has in place arrangements which secure such unfunded arrangements by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets so charged is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Experian Pension Scheme.
The total value of such assets at 31 March 2010 was US$32m 2009: US$22m.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
b Post-retirement healthcare obligations The Group operates plans which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
The principal plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under this plan, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
c Pension disclosures The disclosures required by IAS 19 'Employee Benefits', which relate to the Groups UK defined benefit pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare obligations only, are as follows: i Amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet 2010 2009 US$m US$m Retirement benefit obligations - funded plans: Present value of funded plans liabilities 860 614 Fair value of funded plans assets 822 595 Deficit in the funded plans 38 19 Retirement benefit obligations - unfunded plans: Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 36 26 Liability for post-retirement healthcare 14 13 Retirement benefit obligations - unfunded plans 50 39 Net retirement benefit obligations 88 58 ii Movements in amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 58 132 Differences on exchange 3 9 Total amounts recognised in Group income statement 11 7 Actuarial losses recognised within other comprehensive income 28 202 Contributions paid by the Group 12 14 At 31 March 88 58 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 137 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued iii Movement in the present value of the total defined benefit obligations 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 653 913 Differences on exchange 28 252 Current service cost 10 13 Interest on plans liabilities 48 52 Settlement or curtailment - 3 Actuarial losses gains on liabilities 206 34 Contributions paid by employees 4 4 Benefits paid 39 40 At 31 March 910 653 The total defined benefit obligations of US$910m 2009: US$653m include US$860m 2009: US$614m in respect of the Groups funded arrangements and US$50m 2009: US$39m in respect of the Groups unfunded arrangements.
iv Movement in the fair value of the plans assets 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 595 1,045 Differences on exchange 25 261 Expected return on plans assets 47 69 Actuarial gains losses on assets 178 236 Contributions paid by the Group 12 14 Contributions paid by employees 4 4 Benefits paid 39 40 At 31 March 822 595 The actual return on plans assets was a gain of US$225m 2009: loss of US$167m.
v Expense income recognised in the Group income statement 2010 2009 US$m US$m Administrative costs: Current service cost 10 13 Curtailment gain - 3 Administrative costs 10 10 Net finance expense income : Interest on plans liabilities 48 52 Expected return on plans assets 47 69 Net finance expense income 1 17 Total charge credit to Group income statement 11 7 The curtailment gain of US$3m in the year ended 31 March 2009 arose principally from the restructuring of continuing businesses in the UK.
vi Actuarial gains and losses recognised within other comprehensive income 2010 2009 US$m US$m Losses gains on liabilities 206 34 Gains losses on assets 178 236 Total losses recognised within other comprehensive income 28 202 138 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued vii Amounts recognised in the Group retained earnings reserve 2010 2009 US$m US$m Total charge credit to Group income statement 11 7 Actuarial losses recognised within other comprehensive income 28 202 Total charge to Group retained earnings reserve 39 195 At the balance sheet date, cumulative actuarial losses of US$169m 2009: US$141m had been recognised in the Group retained earnings reserve, of which US$81m 2009: US$81m related to losses in respect of Home Retail Group plans recognised prior to the demerger.
viii Future contributions Contributions expected to be paid to Experian defined benefit pension plans during the year ending 31 March 2011 are US$11m by the Group and US$4m by employees.
ix Actuarial assumptions The valuations used at 31 March 2010 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Towers Watson Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The assumptions for discount rate, salary increases and mortality, used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations, all have a significant effect on the accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
Principal actuarial assumptions: 2010 2009 % % Rate of inflation 3.7 3.4 Rate of increase for salaries 4.7 5.2 Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.6 3.4 Rate of increase for medical costs 7.7 6.5 Discount rate 5.5 6.9 The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, i. e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
If this rate increased decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligations would decrease increase by approximately US$16m and the annual current service cost would remain unchanged.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
In the case of the Groups principal plan, the Experian Pension Scheme, the obligations are primarily in sterling and have a maturity of some 18 years.
Mortality assumptions - average life expectation on retirement at age 65 in normal health: 2010 2009 years years For a male currently aged 65 21.3 21.3 For a female currently aged 65 24.2 24.2 For a male currently aged 50 22.2 22.2 For a female currently aged 50 25.0 25.0 The valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with the PA92 series year of use tables with medium cohort mortality improvement projections and an age rating of 1 year.
This includes an explicit allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy medium cohort projections.
An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the defined benefit obligations at 31 March 2010 by approximately US$4m.
The valuation in respect of post-retirement healthcare benefits additionally assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this rate of increase increased decreased by 1.0% per annum the obligation would increase decrease by US$1m and the current service cost and associated finance expense would remain unchanged.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 139 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued x Assets of the Groups defined benefit plans at fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m % US$m % Equities 432 52 345 58 Fixed interest securities 317 39 214 36 Other 73 9 36 6 822 100 595 100 The overall return has been determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest securities are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
Expected returns on equities and other assets reflect the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
xi Other information 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of defined benefit obligations 910 653 913 984 1,989 Fair value of plans assets 822 595 1,045 1,069 2,020 Net pension obligations assets 88 58 132 85 31 Experience adjustment on defined benefit obligations - gains losses 1 1 8 5 2 Experience adjustment on plans assets - gains losses 178 236 101 53 241 The Group's retirement benefit obligations and assets are denominated primarily in sterling.
140 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31.
Deferred tax a Net deferred tax liabilities 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 122 144 Differences on exchange 19 37 Income statement credit charge note 12 102 58 Business combinations note 36 a 5 13 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 3 56 Tax recognised in equity on transactions with owners 8 3 Disposal of subsidiaries - 3 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale 4 - Other transfers 2 - At 31 March 37 122 Net deferred tax liabilities have been presented in the Group balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax assets 176 13 Deferred tax liabilities 213 135 At 31 March 37 122 b Deferred tax assets Movements in gross deferred tax assets, without taking into consideration the offsetting of assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Accelerated Intangibles Share option Asset Tax losses Other Total depreciation and award provisions temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 22 63 22 - 17 144 268 Differences on exchange 1 3 - - - 10 14 Income statement credit charge 3 4 9 - 101 9 112 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income - - - - - 3 3 Tax recognised in equity on transactions with owners - - 8 - - - 8 Other transfers - - - - - 2 2 At 31 March 2010 20 62 39 - 118 158 397 Accelerated Intangibles Share option Asset Tax losses Other Total depreciation and award provisions temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 9 115 9 36 42 52 263 Differences on exchange 3 - 3 14 20 2 42 Income statement credit charge 16 71 13 22 53 72 45 Business combinations - 7 - - - - 7 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income - - - - - 56 56 Tax recognised in equity on transactions with owners - - 3 - - - 3 Disposal of subsidiaries - 3 - - - - 3 Transfers - 15 - - 48 34 29 At 31 March 2009 22 63 22 - 17 144 268 Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$302m 2009: US$430m in respect of losses that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
In addition the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$16m 2009: US$16m in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets expected to reverse within the next year of US$107m 2009: US$129m.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 141 31.
Deferred tax continued c Deferred tax liabilities Movements in gross deferred tax liabilities, without taking into consideration the offsetting of liabilities and assets within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Property Accelerated Intangibles Share option Tax losses Other valuations depreciation and award temporary plans differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 - 5 243 - - 142 390 Differences on exchange - 1 32 - - - 33 Income statement charge credit - 30 86 - - 106 10 Business combinations - - 5 - - - 5 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale - - 4 - - - 4 At 31 March 2010 - 36 362 - - 36 434 Property Accelerated Intangibles Share option Tax losses Other Total valuations depreciation and award temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 5 37 184 1 4 176 407 Differences on exchange 8 2 48 - - 37 79 Income statement charge credit 13 6 57 1 4 82 13 Business combinations - - 20 - - - 20 Transfers - 36 144 - - 79 29 At 31 March 2009 - 5 243 - - 142 390 Deferred tax liabilities of US$1,447m 2009: US$2,062m have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The decrease in the unrecognised liabilities in the year resulted from changes in the Group structure.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax liabilities expected to reverse within the next year of US$57m 2009: US$94m.
142 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Provisions Restructuring Contingent Total costs and other liabilities US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 36 45 81 Differences on exchange 2 13 15 Amount charged released in the year 19 3 16 Utilised 40 - 40 Impact of discount rate movement 1 - 1 At 31 March 2010 18 55 73 Disclosed within current liabilities 18 41 59 Disclosed within non-current liabilities - 14 14 At 31 March 2010 18 55 73 Restructuring Contingent Total costs and other liabilities US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 51 60 111 Differences on exchange 12 15 27 Amount charged in the year 92 - 92 Utilised 96 - 96 Impact of discount rate movement 1 - 1 At 31 March 2009 36 45 81 Disclosed within current liabilities 35 31 66 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 1 14 15 At 31 March 2009 36 45 81 The restructuring provision at 31 March 2010 of US$18m 2009: US$35m disclosed within current liabilities included US$18m 2009: US$24m in connection with the strategic programme of cost efficiency measures and US$nil 2009: US$11m in respect of obligations relating to the Groups withdrawal from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK.
The restructuring provision at 31 March 2009 of US$1m disclosed within non-current liabilities related to obligations connected with the latter.
Contingent and other liabilities comprise liabilities of Serasa, in connection with local legal and tax issues, which were primarily recognised at fair value on the acquisition of that company.
Adjustments to the fair values are made as the exposures are concluded.
Fair values of provisions at the balance sheet dates do not materially differ from the recognised book values.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 143 33.
Share capital and share premium Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
Further details relating to the share capital of Experian plc at the balance sheet dates, together with details of ordinary shares issued during the year and since 31 March 2010, are contained in note K to the parent company financial statements.
The share premium account comprises the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued i by way of the share offer in October 2006, net of expenses, and ii by way of the subsequent issue of ordinary shares in connection with employee share option plans.
The balance on this account is not available for distribution.
The Group adopted a presentation currency of the US dollar in its previous sets of financial statements.
As described in note B to its financial statements which are prepared under UK GAAP, the Company determined that its functional currency changed on 1 April 2009 to the US dollar from sterling.
A difference between the amounts now shown in the Group and parent company financial statements in respect of share capital and the share premium account arises due to the translation of the sterling amounts into US dollars at the different exchange rates on the different translation dates.
The differences for share capital and the share premium account, with the higher numbers being reported in the Group financial statements, are US$23m and US$329m respectively at both 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2010.
Retained earnings and other reserves Retained earnings comprise net profits retained in the Group after the payment of equity dividends.
The composition of, and movements in, other reserves are set out below.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
Own Merger Hedging Translation Total Year ended 31 March 2010 shares reserve reserve reserve other reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 112 15,682 11 234 16,017 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 164 - - - 164 Exercise of share options 151 - - - 151 Currency translation gains recognised directly in other comprehensive income - - - 170 170 At 31 March 2010 125 15,682 11 64 15,860 Own Merger Hedging Translation Total Year ended 31 March 2009 shares reserve reserve reserve other reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 132 15,682 11 150 15,653 Exercise of share options 20 - - - 20 Currency translation losses recognised directly in other comprehensive income - - - 384 384 At 31 March 2009 112 15,682 11 234 16,017 At 31 March 2010, the balance on the own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Company held by the Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan to satisfy certain of the Groups obligations under its share incentive plans.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, 18m 2009: nil ordinary shares were purchased by the trusts at a cost of US$164m 2009: US$nil.
The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the global offer and subsequent share issues.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
144 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement 2010 2009 US$m US$m a Cash generated from operations Profit after tax 644 494 Adjustments for: Tax expense 17 84 Share of post-tax profits of associates 58 42 Net financing costs 90 77 Operating profit 693 613 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 2 6 Loss on sale of other intangible assets 3 3 Loss on disposal of businesses 24 3 Depreciation and amortisation 417 420 Goodwill adjustment - 1 Losses in respect of associates 4 5 Charge in respect of equity incentive plans 61 52 Change in working capital note 35 b 22 7 Movement in exceptional items included in working capital 21 8 Cash generated from operations 1,157 1,102 b Change in working capital Decrease increase in inventories 1 2 Increase decrease in receivables 38 24 Increase decrease in payables 18 11 Difference between pension cost in Group income statement and contributions paid 3 4 Change in working capital 22 7 c Purchase of other intangible assets Databases 168 153 Internally generated software 45 38 Internal use software 43 39 Purchase of other intangible assets 256 230 d Acquisition of subsidiaries Purchase of subsidiaries including acquisition expenses note 36 a 41 124 Net cash acquired with subsidiaries note 36 a 9 4 Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions made in previous years 9 59 Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries 41 179 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 145 35.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued 2010 2009 US$m US$m e Disposal of subsidiaries Disposal of transaction processing activities in France note 13 17 191 Disposal of other businesses note 36 b 6 - Cash outflow inflow from disposal of subsidiaries 11 191 f Financing Debt due within one year: Repayment of borrowings 334 29 Debt due after more than one year: Repayment of borrowings 883 249 New borrowings 692 71 Net cash flow from debt financing 525 207 g Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 175 127 Short-term investments - 2 Cash and cash equivalents in Group balance sheet 175 129 Bank overdrafts 12 2 Cash and cash equivalents in Group cash flow statement 163 127 h Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items Total exceptional items note 10 72 117 Working capital movements 21 8 Asset write-offs 3 15 Losses in respect of associates 4 5 Loss on disposal of businesses 24 3 Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items 62 102 i Reconciliation of cash generated from operations to operating cash flow non-GAAP measure Cash generated from operations note 35 a 1,157 1,102 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 58 75 Purchase of other intangible assets note 35 c 256 230 Sale of property, plant and equipment 30 - Dividends received from associates 41 28 Add back of net cash outflow from exceptional items note 35 h 62 102 Operating cash flow 976 927 146 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 36.
Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisitions for the year ended 31 March 2010 The Group made several acquisitions during the year, none of which is considered to be individually material.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses contributed revenues of US$12m to the Group for the periods from their respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2010.
The acquired businesses contributed aggregate profit after tax of US$1m to the Group for the periods from their respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2010.
If these acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2009, further revenues of US$29m would have been reported.
It has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group profit after tax had the acquired entities been owned from 1 April 2009, as their accounting policies and period end dates did not accord with those of the Group prior to their acquisition.
Details of the net assets acquired at provisional fair values are as follows: Book value Fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 1 22 Property, plant and equipment 2 2 Trade and other receivables 9 9 Cash and cash equivalents 9 9 Trade and other payables 8 8 Deferred tax liabilities - 5 13 29 Goodwill 16 45 Satisfied by: Cash 40 Acquisition expenses 1 Recognition of minority interest 4 45 The book values above are the carrying amounts of each class of asset and liability, determined in accordance with IFRS, immediately before the acquisition.
The fair values set out above contain certain provisional amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2010 as a consequence of the timing of the acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments in respect of acquisitions made during the year resulted in an increase in book value of US$16m and arose principally in respect of acquisition intangibles.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired.
There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2010 that relate to acquisitions that were effected in the current or previous years.
Contingent consideration settled during the year on acquisitions made in previous years was US$9m.
b Disposals During the year ended 31 March 2010, there was a loss of US$24m on the disposal of a number of the Groups smaller businesses including the National Business Database in North America with a related cash inflow of US$6m.
Costs and cash outflows during the year ended 31 March 2010 in respect of the earlier disposal of the transaction processing activities in France are detailed in note 13.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements 147 37.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale During the year, approval was given to a number of small disposals and accordingly the assets and liabilities of the businesses involved are classified as held for sale at 31 March 2010.
The transactions have been completed since the balance sheet date and the resulting gain or loss on disposal will be recognised in the year ending 31 March 2011.
US$m Assets classified as held for sale: Other intangible assets 16 Property, plant and equipment 2 Trade receivables - net 6 Other prepayments and accrued income 1 Assets classified as held for sale 25 Liabilities classified as held for sale Tax liabilities 6 Accruals and deferred income 6 Liabilities classified as held for sale 12 38.
Operating lease commitments - minimum lease payments 2010 2009 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring in: Less than one year 48 46 Between one and five years 127 107 More than five years 87 54 262 207 The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Capital commitments 2010 2009 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 16 3 Intangible assets 28 19 44 22 40.
Contingencies There are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving the Group in North America and Latin America which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
148 Experian Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 41.
Related parties The ultimate parent company of the Group is Experian plc which is incorporated in Jersey.
Significant subsidiary and associate undertakings at 31 March 2010 are shown in note Q to the financial statements of that company.
The Groups only material related parties are associates and key management personnel.
Transactions with such parties during the year were as follows: a Associates The Group made net sales and recharges, under normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties, to FARES and its associate FADV of US$28m 2009: US$25m.
Amounts receivable from FARES are included within the amounts owed by associates in note 21.
These amounts are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received in the year in connection with the Groups trading with these entities.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by associates.
Other details in respect of FARES are given in note 19. b Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 9.
Other than remuneration, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families in either the current or previous year.
Events occurring after the end of the reporting period Details of the second interim dividend approved since the end of the reporting period are given in note 15.
On 22 April 2010, Experian received notice from FAC of the exercise of its buy-out option in respect of Experian's interest in FARES see note 19.
As indicated in note 37, the Group completed some small disposals following the balance sheet date.
