Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets.
In accordance with the exemptions allowed by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
In accordance with the exemptions allowed by FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company has not presented a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions not to disclose related party transactions with other members of Fenner PLC Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted for the year ended 31 August 2010, which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement and retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period.
Share-based payments The Company operates equity-settled share schemes for certain employees across the Fenner PLC Group.
The cost of share-based payments is measured at fair value at the date of grant, excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The cost is recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with the corresponding amount credited to equity, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair values are measured using the Binomial option-pricing model and the Monte Carlo simulation approach.
Taxation Taxation expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable profit for the period using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, together with any adjustments in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or deductible or are taxable or deductible in other years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
It is determined using the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Timing differences are differences between taxable profits and results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued asset.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by shareholders at the AGM.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
In prior years, certain freehold properties have been revalued by independent qualified professional valuers on the basis of open market value for their existing use.
As permitted by the transitional phase of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, these valuations have been frozen.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Estimated useful lives most widely applied are as follows: Freehold buildings 40 years Investments Investments are stated at cost or valuation less accumulated impairment losses.
