Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and with IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Group financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The following standards or interpretations to existing standards have been adopted for the first time during the year: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendment to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments Amendment to IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Adoption of these standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the Groups reported results or financial position although IAS 1 and IFRS 8 did give rise to additional disclosures or changes to disclosures in the Group financial statements.
The following standards or interpretations to existing standards have been published but are not mandatory for the year ended 31 August 2010 and consequently have not been adopted by the Group in the year: IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments None of these standards or interpretations are expected to have a significant impact on the Groups reported results or financial position.
The principal accounting policies adopted for the year ended 31 August 2010, which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements of Fenner PLC and subsidiaries controlled by the Group as at 31 August each year.
A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group at the date of completion.
Costs directly attributable to the acquisition were also included in the cost of the acquisition for acquisitions prior to 1 September 2009.
From this date, directly attributable acquisition costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, the accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries are adjusted to bring them into line with those used by the Group.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of acquisition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
