Ferrexpo plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Statement of Directors Responsibilities In relation to the Group financial statements In relation to the Group and parent company financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in statements accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable the financial statements in accordance with International Financial them to ensure that the Group and Company financial statements Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with respect to the Group Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: detection of fraud and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Under applicable UK law and requirements of the Financial Services make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Authority, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of a state whether applicable International Financial Reporting Directors report, Directors remuneration report and corporate Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures governance report that comply with these laws and requirements.
In disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and addition the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation continue in business.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In relation to the parent company financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in Under the requirements of Chapter 4 of the Disclosure and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Transparency Rules the Directors are responsible for including a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements position of the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Annual Report and Accounts Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, Company and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the financial statements, the Directors are required to: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them b the management report entitled Business Review includes a fair consistently: review of the development and performance of the business, and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and For and on behalf of the Board explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Michael Abrahams unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Chairman continue in business.
Christopher Mawe Chief Financial Officer
