Ferrexpo plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information Note 1: Corporate information Organisation and operation Ferrexpo plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom with registered office at 24 King Street, London, SW1Y 6QL, UK.
Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries the Group operate a mine and processing plant near Kremenchuk in Ukraine, an interest in a port in Odessa and a sales and marketing company in Switzerland and Kiev.
The Group also owns a logistic group located in Austria which operates a fleet of vessels operating on the Rhine and Danube waterways.
The Groups operations are vertically integrated from iron ore mining through to iron ore concentrate and pellet production and subsequent logistics.
The Groups mineral properties lie within the Kremenchuk Magnetic Anomaly and are currently being exploited at the Gorishne-Plavninsky and Lavrikovsky deposits.
These deposits are being jointly mined as one mining complex.
The majority shareholder of the Group is Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Fevamotinico, a company owned The Minco Trust, of the beneficiaries of which is Kostyantin Zhevago, the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
At the time this report was published, Fevamotinico held 51.0% 2009: 51.0% of Ferrexpo plcs issued share capital.
The Groups operations are largely conducted through Ferrexpo plcs principal subsidiary, Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation and logistics for Western Europe are managed through the Helogistics subsidiaries.
The Group comprises of Ferrexpo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below: Equity interest owned at 31 December Country of 2010 2009 Name incorporation Principal activity % % 1 Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation Ukraine Iron ore mining 97.3 97.3 2 Ferrexpo AG S witzerland Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 3 DP Ferrotrans Ukraine Trade, transportation services 97.3 97.3 3 United Energy Company LLC Ukraine Holding company 97.3 97.3 1 Ferrexpo Finance plc formerly Ferrexpo UK Limited England Finance 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Services Limited Ukraine Management services and procurement 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Hong Kong Limited China Marketing services 100.0 100.0 4 Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK LLC Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 98.6 4 Ferrexpo Belanovo GOK LLC Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 98.6 3 Nova Logistics Limited Ukraine Service company dormant 51.0 51.0 5 Helogistics Holding GmbH Austria Holding company 100.0 5 EDDSG GmbH Austria Logistic company 100.0 5 DDSG Tankschiffahrt GmbH Austria Logistic company 100.0 5 Helogistics Transport GmbH Austria Logistic company 100.0 5 Mahart Duna Cargo Kft.
Hungary Logistic company 100.0 5 Pancar Kft.
Hungary Logistic company 100.0 1 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo AG.
For details in respect to the change in equity interest we refer to note 15.
2 Ferrexpo AG was the holding company of the Group until, as a result of the pre-IPO restructuring: Ferrexpo plc became the holding company on 24 May 2007.
3 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
4 The Groups interest in this entity is held through both Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Service Limited.
The shares initially held by Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation have been transferred as of 31 August 2010 to Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Services Ltd. 5 The Groups interest in these entities are held through Ferrexpo AG.
Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries were acquired on 14 December 2010 and have been consolidated for the first time as of 31 December 2010.
Legal completion of the acquisition occurred on 19 January 2011.
The details of the business combination are disclosed in note 41.
The Group also holds an interest of 48.6% 2009: 48.6% in TIS Ruda, a Ukrainian port located on the Black Sea.
As this is an associate, it is accounted for using the equity method of accounting and further disclosed in note 14.
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB, as it applies to accounting periods ended 31 December 2010.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for post-employment benefits and available-forsale financial instruments, the latter measured at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, the former measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in thousand of US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise indicated.
Ferrexpo plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009, except for those changes detailed in note 3.
Risks in relation to the facilities and re-financing are contained in the Business Review of this report.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements for Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as at the same reporting date as Ferrexpo plcs, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date of effective control, when Group obtains effective control.
Similarly, subsidiaries disposed of are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group ceases to hold effective control.
All intercompany balances and transactions including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Business combination and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2010 On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the business combination is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregated amount of the consideration transferred, measured at the date of acquisition.
The consideration paid is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition costs are expensed when incurred and included in general and administrative expenses.
If the cost of acquisition exceeds the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group, the difference is considered as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but annually reviewed for impairment or in case of an indication of impairment.
In the case that the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group exceed the cost of acquisition, the difference is recognised in profit and loss as a gain on bargain purchase.
For each business combination, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
If the initial accounting for a business combination cannot be completed by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, only provisional amounts are reported, which can be adjusted during the measurement period of 12 months after acquisition date.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Details to the impairment testing are given in section Impairment testing of assets on page 90. Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 The following accounting treatment was applied for business combination prior to 1 January in comparison to the above-mentioned policy: Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition were considered as acquisition costs and had an impact on the goodwill calculation.
The non-controlling interest formerly known as minority interest was measured at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Business combinations achieved in stages were accounted for as separate steps and any additional acquired share of interest did affect either previously recognised goodwill or profit and loss in case of a bargain purchase.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchase of interests in associates.
Investments in associates The Groups investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to the Groups investment in the associate.
The share of profit of an associate is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to the Group and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The reporting dates of the associates and Ferrexpo plc are identical and the associates accounting policies are generally in conformity of those applied by the Group.
Ferrexpo plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Functional and presentational currencies Based on the economic substance of the underlying business transactions and circumstances relevant to the parent, the functional currency of the parent has been determined to be the US dollar, with each subsidiary determining its own functional currency based on its own circumstances.
The Group has chosen the US dollar as its presentation currency and Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation the principal subsidiary has determined that its functional currency is Ukrainian hryvnia.
Foreign currency translation For individual subsidiary Company accounts, transactions in foreign currencies i. e. other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and non-monetary assets and liabilities at the historic rate.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
For presentation of Group consolidated accounts, if the functional currency of a subsidiary is different to the presentation currency as at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of this entity are translated into the presentation currency at the rate ruling at the reporting date and the income statement is translated using the average exchange rate for the period.
The foreign exchange differences arising are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to the particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods including pellet sales Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Risks and rewards of the ownership of goods passes when title for the goods passes to the customer as determined by the terms of the sales agreement.
The sales are typically made under the following terms: CIF Cargo Insurance and Freight : CFR Cargo and Freight : DAF Delivery At Frontier : DES Delivered Ex Ship : or FOB Free on Board.
Under the CFR and FOB terms the title passes on the bill of lading date whereas under the other terms revenue is recognised when goods arrive at agreed destination or at boarder crossing.
If the sales agreement allows for adjustment of the sales prices based on survey of the goods by the customer e. g. ore content the revenue is recognised based on the most recent determined product specification.
Other sales Other sales include the processing and sale of ore and ore concentrate, the sale of parts, materials and crushed rocks and the repair and rental of railway wagons.
Logistic services Revenue from logistic services rendered is recognised as the services are completed.
Where services are invoiced in advance of discharge, amounts attributable to the time between the end of the reporting period and the discharge date are deferred.
Rendering of services Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised when services are complete.
Sales of services primarily include repairs and spare parts, canteen revenue and recharges to local customers for electricity consumption and railway usage.
Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Operating foreign exchange gains and losses are those items that are directly related to the production and sale of pellets e. g. trade receivables, trade payables on operating expenditure.
Non-operating gains and losses are those associated with the Groups financing and treasury activities e. g. interest-bearing loans, cash and cash equivalents.
Ferrexpo plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Finance expenses comprise the interest expense on borrowings and other financial liabilities.
Taxes Current income tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount estimated to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, if it is probable that they become taxable, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax VAT, except: where VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is disclosed in the note 27 to the financial statements.
VAT receivable balances are not discounted unless the overdue balances are expected to be received after more than 12 months following the period end.
Where intentions have been communicated officially that VAT repayments which are due are to be converted into bonds or other financial instruments, these are valued at the estimated market value of such instruments with any adjustment charged to the income statement.
Ferrexpo plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Equity Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary Shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Group are classified in capital and reserves as the employee benefit trust reserve and recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in other capital reserves.
Financial assets Derivative financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities promissory notes, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value being the fair value of the consideration given or received plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are those that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Group has not designated any financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired along with the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets All investment, except for investments in associates, are accounted for as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as loans or receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised.
At this time the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is recognised in the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available-for-sale reserve.
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the reporting date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair value is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised and initially measured at cost.
Subsequently, instruments with a fixed maturity are remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any transaction costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Financial liabilities which do not have a fixed maturity are subsequently carried at fair value.
Ferrexpo plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced either directly or through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, i. e. whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even it that right is not specified in an arrangement.
Group as a lessee Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same bases as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Ferrexpo plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and or accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Upon recognition, items of property, plant and equipment are divided into components, which represent items with a significant value that can be allocated to a separate depreciation period.
Overhaul costs also represent a component of an asset.
Assets are initially recognised in assets under construction and then transferred to the appropriate categories on completion.
Major spare parts and stand-by equipment qualify as property, plant and equipment when they are expected to be used during more than one period.
Expenditure incurred after the assets have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance and overhaul costs, are normally charged to the income statement in the period the costs are incurred.
In situations where it can be clearly demonstrated that the expenditure results in future economic benefits, the expenditure is capitalised as an additional cost.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated useful life which is calculated with due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Except for mining assets which are depreciated using the unit of production method, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows: Buildings: 2050 years Vessels: 3040 years Plant and equipment: 315 years Vehicles: 715 years Fixtures and fittings: 2.510 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
On acquisition the cost of property, plant and equipment is capitalised on the statement of financial position.
Depreciation commences when the item is available for use.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Stripping costs included in mining assets and assets under construction Stripping costs in relation to mine exploration, evaluation and development costs incurred up to the commencement of the production are included in assets under construction.
Stripping work comprises overburden removed at the pre-production, mine extension and production stages.
After the commencement of production, the respective pre-production stripping costs are transferred to mining assets and depreciated using the unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate.
The production stripping costs are generally charged to the income statement as variable production costs.
The production stripping costs are only capitalised if the stripping activities are related to a betterment of the mining property and the duration of the future benefits is ascertained without a high degree of judgement.
If capitalised, the production stripping costs are included in mining assets and depreciated using the same methodology as for the capitalised pre-production stripping costs see above.
The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase is expensed as incurred.
Ferrexpo plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets Goodwill The policies applied for the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of goodwill is described under Goodwill and other intangible assets and Business combination on page 90 and page 117 respectively.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of other intangible assets acquired in a business combination is its fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
The useful lives of other intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Amortisation Other intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise capitalised software costs, which are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, ranging between one and three years.
Capitalised mineral licences are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Impairment of assets excluding financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement.
Refer to note 20 for details on the impairment testing of goodwill.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is accounted for as follows: Raw materials at cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Finished goods and work in progress at cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Ferrexpo plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Site restoration costs Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs determined by an independent expert in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted, if material, and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or the life of operations.
Pension obligations and other employee benefits The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian state pension scheme at the statutory rates in effect during the year, based on gross salary payments: such expense is charged in the period the related salaries are earned.
In addition, the Group has a legal obligation to compensate the Ukrainian State Pension Fund for additional pensions paid to certain categories of the current and former employees of the Group.
These obligations being unfunded are substantially similar to those typically existing under an unfunded defined benefit plan.
The Group also makes contributions to the defined benefit pension fund for employees of Ferrexpo AG.
Costs relating to these plans are accrued in the consolidated financial statements using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Management uses actuarial techniques in calculating the liability related to this retirement obligation at each reporting date.
Gains and losses resulting from the use of external actuarial valuation methodologies are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of the defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans and the higher of planned assets obligation for funded schemes corridor approach.
These gains or losses are recognised as income or expense over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
The past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit liability is the aggregate of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and actuarial gains and losses not recognised reduced by the past service cost not yet recognised.
Earnings per share The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding shares held in treasury.
For the current and prior year periods, basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of Ordinary Shares as defined above.
The number of Ordinary Shares in issue excludes the shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and the treasury shares held by the Group.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
All share awards are potentially dilutive and have been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, except for market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is dependent upon a market condition.
In these cases, the awards are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Ferrexpo plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs The LTIPs are share-based schemes whereby certain senior management and executives receive rewards based on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR outperformance of the Group compared with a group of companies, which operate within a similar environment.
The cost of equity-settled awards is measured as described above together with an estimate of future social security contributions payable in respect of this value.
Where the granting of an LTIP is subject to the satisfaction of certain market conditions, a vesting charge is recognised irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where awards terminate before the performance period is complete, any unamortised expense is recognised immediately.
Note 3: New accounting policies The Group adopted the following new and amended standards as at 1 January 2010: Standards affecting the reported results and financial positions IFRS 3 Business combinations The revised standard was issued in January 2008 and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Changes affect the valuation of non-controlling interest, the accounting for transaction costs, the initial and subsequent measurement of a contingent consideration and business combinations achieved in stages.
Its adoption has affected the accounting for the business combination in the current period and the acquisition costs incurred have been expensed and included in administrative expenses.
In the current period, the changes contained in IFRS 3 have affected the accounting for the acquisition of Helogistics Group and its subsidiaries.
Acquisition related costs amounting to US$1,624 thousand have been expensed when incurred this reduced the amount of goodwill resulting from this transaction by this amount.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements The revised standard was issued in January 2008 and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The changes of the revised standard affect the Groups accounting policies regarding changes in ownership interests in its subsidiaries that do not result in a change in control.
Under the revised standard, all such increases or decreases are dealt with in equity, with no impact on goodwill or profit or loss.
The transfer of the shareholdings in Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK LLC and Ferrexpo Belanovo GOK LLC from Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation to Ferrexpo AG resulted in a decrease of the non-controlling interests in these subsidiaries.
Due to the change of IAS 27, the effect of US$147 thousand from the decrease of the non-controlling interests has been recognised directly in equity.
Standards and interpretations adopted with no effect on reported results, financial position and disclosure IFRS 2 Share-based payment group cash-settled share-based payment transactions The amendment to the standard was issued in June 2009 and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions and supersedes IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11.
The adoption of this amendment did not have any impact on the reported results, financial position and disclosures.
IAS 28 Investments in associates The revised standard was issued in May 2008 and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The principle adopted under IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that a loss of control is recognised as a disposal and reacquisition of any retained interest at fair value is extended by consequential amendment to IAS 28.
Therefore, when significant influence is lost, the investor measures any investment retained in the former associate at fair value, with any consequential gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The adoption of the revised standard did not have any impact on the reported results, financial position and disclosures.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners This interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and provides guidance on how to account for non-cash distributions to owners.
The interpretation clarifies when to recognise a liability, how to measure it and the associated assets, and when to derecognise the asset and liability.
The adoption of the interpretation did not have any impact on the reported results, financial position and disclosures.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers The new interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant, and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services.
Ferrexpo plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 3: New accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Group has elected not to early adopt the following revised and amended standards: IAS 24 Related party disclosures The amended standard was issued in November 2009 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The revised standard introduces a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for government-related parties and clarifies the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in the application.
The Group does not expect any impact on its financial position or performance and does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption.
IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation classification of rights issues The amendment to IAS 32 on the classification of rights issues has been issued in October 2009 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2011.
For rights issues offered for a fixed amount of foreign currency current practice appears to require such issues to be accounted for as derivative liabilities.
The amendment states that if such rights are issued pro rata to an entitys all existing shareholders in the same class for a fixed amount of currency, they should be classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
This amendment will have no impact on the Group after initial application and will be adopted by Group for the Groups reporting financial statements for the period beginning 1 January 2012.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments: classification and measurement The IASB has issued the first phase of IFRS 9 that will replace IAS 39.
The new standard applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 might have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
The IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition in separate phases and the completion of the new standard is expected to be in early 2011.
IFRIC 14 Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement The amendment to IFRIC 14 is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and will have to respectively applied.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of net pension assets and permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as asset.
The future application of this amendment is deemed to have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments IFRIC 19 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The new interpretation addresses the accounting by the entity that issues equity instruments in order to settle, in full or in part, a financial liability.
The adoption of this interpretation will have no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Note 4: Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates are based on information available as at the date of authorising the consolidated financial statements for issue.
Actual results, therefore, could differ from those estimates.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial information are described in the following notes: Property, plant and equipment The determination of fair value and value-in-use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income statement.
The total of property, plant and equipment amounted to US$647,137 thousand as of 31 December 2010 2009: US$452,100 thousand.
Pre-production stripping costs Overburden and other mine waste materials have to be removed prior to the production of the mine in order to become access to the iron ore body.
These activities are referred to as pre-production stripping costs and are capitalised under assets under construction.
The preproduction stripping costs are capitalised based on calculations which require the use of judgement and estimates in terms of estimated tonnage of overburden and waste material to be removed during the life time of the mine and the expected recoverable reserves that can be extracted.
The change of the mine plan life and design in the future may result in changes to the expected stripping ratio waste to mineral reserves ratio and require adjustment of the capitalised pre-production stripping costs.
At 31 December 2010, the carrying amount of capitalised pre-production stripping costs was US$61,243 thousand 2009: US$23,337 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 4: Use of estimates continued Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets As outlined in note 20 the impairment testing of goodwill is based on significant judgements and assumptions made by the management when performing the annual impairment testing of these non-current assets.
Changes to be made to these assumptions may alter the results of the impairment testing, the impairment charges recorded in profit or loss and the resulting carrying values of the non-current assets tested.
The carrying amount of the goodwill amounted to US$98,747 thousand as of 31 December 2010 2009: US$94,459 thousand.
Fair value of financial instruments Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities recorded in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques including the discounted cash flow model.
The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values.
The judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Detailed information on the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities are given in note 38.
Defined benefit pension liability The valuation for defined benefit superannuation schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
At 31 December 2010, the carrying amount of defined benefit pension liability was US$17,819 thousand 2009: US$14,529 thousand.
Provision for site restoration The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of site restoration provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, extent and estimated future costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
At 31 December 2010, the carrying amount of the provision for site restoration amounted to US$2,746 thousand 2009: US$1,268 thousand.
Deferred income tax The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements judgement in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the expected generation of sufficient future taxable profits.. A deviation between expected and effective future taxable profits in the different local jurisdictions may have an adverse impact on the recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Assumptions about the generation of expected future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statement of the Group and the amounts of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some, or all, of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups consolidated financial statements showed deferred tax assets of US$16,596 thousand 2009: US$13,673 thousand and deferred tax liabilities of US$2,432 thousand 2009: US$3,739 thousand.
Note 5: Segment information The Group is managed as a single entity which produces, develops and markets its principal product iron ore pellets for sale to the metallurgical industry.
In December 2010, the Group acquired a logistics company engaged in the transport of bulk commodities and liquids through the Rhine Danube corridor in Europe and the provision of bunkering fuel services on the same routes.
The management of the Group monitors the operating results of the pellet and logistics business separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group presents its results in a single segment which are disclosed in the income statement for the Group.
The acquired logistics business is below the quantitative thresholds requiring separate disclosure as set by the standard and its revenue and result for the year is immaterial.
The management monitors the operating result of the Group based on a number of measures including EBITDA, C1 costs and the net financial indebtedness.
Ferrexpo plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 5: Segment information continued EBITDA The Group calculates EBITDA as profit from continuing operations before tax and finance plus depreciation and amortisation included in cost of sales, administrative expenses and selling and distribution costs and non-recurring cash items included in other income and other expenses plus the net of gains and losses from disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment.
The Group presents EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measure for evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.10 31.12.09 Profit before tax and finance 542,225 104,227 Under recovery of VAT receivable 27 10,936 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 1,618 2,757 Losses gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,305 213 Initial public offering costs 39 55 427 Share-based payments 39 1,366 3,423 Gain on bargain purchase 15 41 2,623 503 Depreciation and amortisation 30,415 28,018 EBITDA 585,297 138,136 C1 costs C1 costs represent the cash costs of production of iron pellets from own ore divided by production volume of own ore, and excludes non-cash costs such as depreciation, pension costs and inventory movements, costs of purchased ore, concentrate and production cost of gravel and excludes one-off items which are outside the definition of EBITDA.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Cost of sales pellets production 481,857 341,067 Depreciation and amortisation 24,662 23,370 Purchased ore and concentrate 101,351 8,914 Processing costs for purchased ore and concentrate 11,042 1,206 Production cost of gravel 88 357 Inventory movements 18,608 10,543 Pension service costs 2,049 1,857 Other 2,754 1,662 C1 cost 358,519 296,482 Own ore produced tonnes 9,033,000 8,609,200 C1 cash cost per tonne US$ 39.69 34.44 Net financial indebtedness Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, interest bearing loans and borrowings and amounts payable for equipment.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.10 31.12.09 Cash and cash equivalents 28 319,470 11,991 Current borrowings 30 22,563 251,503 Non-current borrowings 30 401,290 18,143 Net financial indebtedness 104,384 257,655 Disclosure of revenue and non-current assets The Group does not generate significant revenues from external customers attributable to the country of domicile.
The information on the revenues from external customers attributed to the individual foreign countries is given in note 6.
The Group does not have any significant non-current assets that are located in the country of domicile of the Group.
The vast majority of the non-current assets are located in Ukraine.
Ferrexpo plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 6: Revenue Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Revenue from sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate: Export 1,288,665 612,829 Ukraine 453 34,483 Total revenue from sale of iron ore pellets and concentrate 1,289,118 647,312 Revenue from services provided 674 790 Revenue from other sales 5,108 565 Total revenue 1,294,900 648,667 Export sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate by geographical destination were as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Austria 405,511 105,690 China 320,572 241,882 Serbia 156,806 84,193 Slovakia 143,478 77,537 Czech Republic 99,235 21,293 Turkey 62,166 39,272 Japan 45,318 5,027 Germany 24,833 5,573 Hungary 16,575 6,539 India 14,153 21,225 Other 18 4,598 Total exports 1,288,665 612,829 During the year ended 31 December 2010 sales made to three customers accounted for approximately 62.5% of the sales revenue 2009: 51.9%.
Sales made to two customers individually amounted to more than 10% of the total sales.
These are disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Customer A 405,511 105,690 Customer B 300,284 161,730 Note 7: Cost of sales Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Materials 67,661 60,607 Purchased ore and concentrate 101,351 8,914 Electricity 101,528 81,438 Personnel costs 47,930 41,670 Spare parts and consumables 16,616 13,007 Depreciation and amortisation 24,662 23,370 Fuel 31,299 23,969 Gas 48,236 28,744 Repairs and maintenance 45,230 38,503 Royalties and levies 8,489 6,484 Inventory movements 18,608 10,543 Other 7,463 3,818 Total cost of sales 481,857 341,067 Ferrexpo plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 8: Selling and distribution expenses Selling and distribution expenses for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Railway transportation 81,451 69,477 Other transportation and port charges 115,640 80,998 Agent fees 2,490 799 Custom duties 2,562 1,423 Advertising 3,472 2,757 Personnel cost 1,329 1,055 Depreciation 1,757 1,581 Other 3,305 4,176 Total selling and distribution expenses 212,006 162,266 Note 9: General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Personnel costs 26,362 23,933 Buildings and maintenance 2,475 2,391 Taxes other than income tax and other charges 1,581 3,930 Consulting and other professional fees 4,840 2,731 Depreciation and amortisation 3,867 2,534 Communication 899 529 Vehicles maintenance and fuel 1,222 854 Repairs 815 1,041 Audit fees 1,094 1,112 Non-audit fees 1,395 184 Security 1,613 1,659 Other 3,012 2,263 Total general and administrative expenses 49,175 43,161 Auditor remuneration Auditor remuneration paid in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiary companies and for the provision of other services not in connection with the audit is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Audit services Ferrexpo plc Annual Report 680 628 1 Subsidiary entities 414 484 Total audit services 1,094 1,112 Non-audit services Tax advisory 80 154 Assurance related services 102 2 Other services 1,213 30 Total non-audit services 1,395 184 Total auditor remuneration 2,489 1,296 1 The agreed fees for audit servicices in relation to Helogistics are not included due to the first consolidation as of 31 December 2010.
The agreed fees of US$246 thousand is however included in the amount of the liabilities assumed for the acquired group.
See note 41 for further details.
2 Other services include fees paid for due diligence services and assurance services related to raising new debts for the Group.
Ferrexpo plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 10: Other income Other income for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Sale of surplus maintenance spares 2,909 867 Lease income 762 670 Reversal of fines and penalties 4 Refunds from social security institutions 1,735 Other income 844 826 Total other income 4,515 4,102 Note 11: Other expenses Other expenses for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Charitable donations 4,418 4,043 Movements in allowance for doubtful receivables 3,685 5,199 Research 658 1 Other personnel costs 1,551 830 Other 2,996 3,743 Total other expenses 5,938 3,418 The allowance for doubtful receivables relates to receivables from certain customers in Russia and other former CIS countries recorded in the financial year 2008.
Following a stabilisation in the markets during the latter part of the financial year 2009 as well as as during the financial year 2010 the recorded allowance has been partially released in both reporting periods.
Note 12: Foreign exchange gains and losses Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Operating foreign exchange losses gains Revaluation of trade receivables 222 1,818 Revaluation of trade payables 1,300 716 Total operating foreign exchange losses gains 1,078 2,534 Non-operating foreign exchange losses Revaluation of interest-bearing loans 258 1,639 Revaluation of cash and cash equivalents 767 84 Other 3,379 997 Total non-operating foreign exchange losses 3,888 2,552 Other non-operating foreign exchange losses in 2010 were principally related to the revaluation of income tax payables in Swiss francs.
Note 13: Write-offs and impairment losses Impairment losses relate to adjustments made against the carrying value of assets where this is higher than the recoverable amount.
Write-offs and impairment losses for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.10 31.12.09 Reversals write-off of inventories 254 144 Reversals write-off of property, plant and equipment 251 717 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 21 2,123 1,896 Total write-offs and impairment losses 1,618 2,757 Ferrexpo plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 14: Investments in associates As at 31 December 2010 investments in associates comprised: As at As at Country of Ownership 31.12.10 31.12.09 Principal activity incorporation % US$000 US$000 TIS Ruda Port development Ukraine 48.6 21,132 19,915 For the year ended 31 December 2010 the summarised financial information for the associate was as follows: Total assets Total liabilities Revenue Net profit | | | As at As at As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.09 TIS Ruda 26,648 27,187 1,840 4,837 18,486 20,147 8,326 2,614 The information above is for 100% of the associate named and not as a percentage based on Groups ownership.
The movement in the investment in the year represents the Groups share of profit of US$4,155 thousand in TIS Ruda 2009: US$1,304 thousand.
TIS Ruda paid a dividend amounting to US$2,931 thousand during the financial year 2010 2009: nil.
TIS Ruda operates a port on the Black Sea which the Group uses as part of its distribution channel.
Note 15: Bargain purchase A bargain purchase arose from the acquisition of Helogistics in 2010 and as a result of equity transactions in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation during the prior period.
Acquisition of Helogistics As outlined in detail in note 41, the acquisition of Helogistics resulted in a bargain purchase of US$2,623 thousand in 2010 representing the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired and the purchase consideration, not including the costs of acquisition which are expensed in the income statement.
Treasury shares in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation In 2009, treasury shares of Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation were transferred to Ferrexpo AG resulting in an increase of the shareholding from 97.1% to 97.3%.
This transaction resulted in a bargain purchase of US$503 thousand which is included in profit or loss.
The Group did not early adopt IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements for the financial year 2009 so that the effect from change in ownership was reflected in profit and loss and not in equity as it would be required with under the revised standard.
Note 16: Finance income and expense Finance income and expenses for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Finance income Interest income 1,357 1,894 Other finance revenue 1,275 999 Total finance income 2,632 2,893 Finance expense Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 24,509 16,805 Interest on defined benefit plans 3,344 2,967 Bank charges 12,694 535 Other finance costs 2,296 3,411 Total finance expenses 42,843 23,718 Net finance expense 40,211 20,825 Bank charges include arrangement fees charged in relation to the Groups major bank debt facility.
Ferrexpo plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 17: Income tax expense The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Current income tax Current income tax charge 73,700 12,659 Amounts under over provided in previous years 270 2,497 Total current income tax 73,970 10,162 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4,494 310 Effect from changes in tax laws and rates 3,526 Total deferred income tax 968 310 Total income tax expense 73,002 9,852 A breakdown of the deferred tax balances is contained in note 23.
The effective income tax rate differs from the corporate income tax rates.
The weighted average statutory rate was 13.1% for 2010 2009: 13.0%.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profits losses before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries, as included in the consolidated financial information.
A reconciliation between the income tax charged in the accompanying financial information and income before taxes multiplied by the weighted average statutory tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2010 is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Profit before tax 498,126 80,850 Notional tax computed at the weighted average statutory tax rate of 13.1% 2009: 13.0% 65,254 10,526 Derecognition of deferred tax asset 902 135 Effect from difference in local tax rates 3,526 Effect from utilisation of non-recognised deferred tax assets 274 Effect from capitalised tax loss carry forwards 293 Inflation related indexation of fixed assets for tax 1,792 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7,338 3,359 Tax exempted income 623 942 Non recognition of deferred taxes on current year losses 555 780 Effect from change in permanent differences 2,079 Tax related to prior years 270 2,497 Other 230 283 Total income tax expense 73,002 9,852 Note 18: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.10 31.12.09 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders: Basic earnings per share US cents 72.34 12.08 Diluted earnings per share US cents 72.24 12.05 Underlying earnings for the year: Basic earnings per share US cents 72.98 12.80 Diluted earnings per share US cents 72.91 12.77 Ferrexpo plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 18: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed continued The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended Thousand 31.12.10 31.12.09 Weighted average number of shares Basic number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 584,568 584,652 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 854 1,361 Diluted number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 585,422 586,013 The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated by reducing the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue by the shares held in treasury refer to note 29.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the Directors believe provides a clearer picture of the underlying financial performance of the Groups operations.
Underlying earnings is presented after non-controlling interests and excludes adjusted items.
The calculation of underlying earnings per share is based on the following earnings data: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.10 31.12.09 Profit attributable to equity holders 422,906 70,627 Write offs and impairment losses 13 1,618 2,757 IPO costs 39 55 427 Gain on bargain purchase 15 41 2,623 503 Losses gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,305 213 Non-operating foreign exchange losses 12 3,888 2,551 Tax on adjusted items 346 823 Underlying earnings 426,803 74,823 Adjusted items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Adjusted items that relate to the operating performance of the Group include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items.
Non-operating adjusted items include gains and losses on disposal of investments and businesses and non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses.
Capitalised pre-production stripping costs are included in assets under construction whereas the production stripping costs are shown under mining assets.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2010 was US$27,457 thousand 2009: US$20,204 thousand.
During the year, a sale and lease back transaction for assets of plant and equipment was completed and is considered to be a finance lease.
No gain or loss was realised on the sale of the assets subject to this finance lease.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
US$88,498 thousand 2009: US$82,505 thousand of property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for liabilities.
The gross value of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in use is US$38,847 thousand 2009: US$30,149 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 20: Goodwill and other intangible assets As at 31 December 2010 goodwill and other intangible assets comprised: Other intangible US$000 Goodwill assets Total At 1 January 2009 102,104 2,240 104,344 Cost: Additions 598 598 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 3,646 74 3,720 At 31 December 2009 98,458 2,711 101,169 Additions 633 633 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,637 1,637 Disposals 63 63 Translation differences 289 7 296 At 31 December 2010 98,747 4,925 103,672 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2009 589 589 Amortisation charge 301 301 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 22 22 At 31 December 2009 815 815 Amortisation charge 203 203 Disposals 63 63 Translation differences 2 2 At 31 December 2010 957 957 Net book value at: 31 December 2009 98,458 1,896 100,354 31 December 2010 98,747 3,968 102,715 The goodwill acquired through business combinations in previous periods has been allocated for impairment purposes to one cashgenerating unit, as the Group only had one operating segment, being the production and sale of iron ore.
This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
During the financial year 2010, the Group acquired the Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries.
This resulted in a gain on bargain purchase of US$2,623 thousand recognised in profit or loss and not affecting the balance of capitalised goodwill as of 31 December 2010.
Further details on the business combination are given in note 41.
Goodwill from business combinations are not amortised, but reviewed for impairment losses at every balance sheet date and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment testing was performed at 31 December 2010 based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections over the remaining estimated life of the mine 27 years, a common practice in the mining industry.
The cash flow projection was based on the financial budget covering the next four years and approved by senior management.
The major component of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2010 comprises purchased software.
Ferrexpo plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 20: Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Key assumptions The principal key assumptions are: Estimates assumptions Basis Future production: Proved and probable reserves and resource estimates Commodity prices: Contract prices and longer-term price estimates Cost of raw materials and other production distribution costs: Expected future costs Exchange rates: Current market exchange rates Discount rates: Cost of capital risk adjusted for the resource concerned Cash flows are projected based on management expectations regarding the development of the iron ore and steel market and the cost of producing and distributing the pellets.
The Company takes into account two principal key assumptions, selling price and total production costs.
Within this both macro and local factors which influence these are considered.
In determining the future long-term selling price, the Company takes into account external and internal analysis of the long-term and shorterterm supply and demand dynamics in the local region and throughout the world along with costs of production of competitors and the marginal cost of incremental production in a particular market.
The Company considers local supply demand balances affecting its major customers and the effects this could have on the longer-term price.
Cost of production and shipping is considered taking into account local inflationary pressures, major exchange rate developments between local currency and the US dollar, and the longer-term and shorter-term trends in energy supply and demand and the effect on costs along with the expected movements in steel related commodity prices which affect the cost of certain production inputs.
For the purpose of the goodwill impairment test, the future cash flows were discounted using the real pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2009: 15% per annum.
These rates reflect the time value of money and risk associated with the asset, and is in line with the rates used by competitors with a similar background.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that due to the high value of the projects and resulting reserve base no reasonable change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its value-in-use.
Note 21: Available-for-sale financial assets As at 31 December 2010 available-for-sale financial assets comprised: Ownership % Carrying value | As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.09 Current Investments available for sale equity instruments: Vostock Ruda 1.10% 626 Total current 626 Non-current Investments available-for-sale equity instruments: OJSC Stahanov 3.14% 3.14% 2,728 813 Vostock Ruda 1.10% 628 LLC Atol 9.95% 9.95% 2,104 CJSC AMA 9.00% 9.00% CJSC Amtek 9.00% 9.00% Total non-current 3,356 2,917 All investments relate to companies incorporated in Ukraine.
Ferrexpo plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 21: Available-for-sale financial assets continued Impairment testing Ferrexpo Petroleum The fair value of the unquoted equity investment in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek, companies engaged in the exploration and development of oil and gas fields in the Poltava Region of Ukraine, is determined by management using a discounted cash flow projection, having taken into account the estimated value of reserves provided by an expert third party valuer.
The key assumptions used in this calculation were gas condensate prices, gas oil condensate conversion rates, production volumes, production costs, tax rates, projected capital expenditure, the Ukrainian hryvnia to US dollar exchange rate and the discount rate.
The calculation took into account the projected future cash flows attributable to the  licence projected to make up 90% of the total value of the investment over a period of 19 years the length of the licence with an applied pre-tax discount rate of 15.0% 2009: 15.0% per annum.
As a result of the above review, management recognised an additional impairment charge against the carrying value of the investments in LLC Atol in 2010 resulting in fully impaired investments as of 31 December 2010 2009: US$2,104 thousand.
The decrease of the carrying value of the investment is related to the impairment testing performed for the interim report as of 30 June 2010, when an additional impairment loss was recorded through the income statement.
There are no indications at the year-end that require a reversal of any impairment losses booked in previous periods.
OJSC Stahanov The value of OJSC Stahanov was increased due to a higher quoted market price for its shares on the Ukrainian stock exchange PFTS as of 31 December 2010.
The increase of the fair value in the amount of US$1,915 thousand 2009: US$441 thousand has been recorded against the net unrealised gains reserve as a reversal of previously recorded impairment losses.
Further details regarding available-for-sale investments can be found in note 13 write-offs and impairment losses as well as note 35 related party transactions.
Note 22: Other non-current assets As at 31 December 2010 other non-current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 23,173 7,320 Loan provided to associate 1,000 2,000 Other non-current assets 593 504 Total other non-current assets 24,767 9,824 Ferrexpo plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 23: Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 relate to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated of financial position income statement | As at As at Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.09 Trade and other receivables 4,106 2,466 1,480 1,584 Inventories 144 96 132 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 294 Property, plant and equipment 9,789 9,122 640 393 IPO costs netted against share premium 726 1,226 499 499 Tax losses recognised 5,322 743 293 743 Other financial assets 2 187 104 10 Trade and other payables 29 77 48 47 Accrued expenses 2,004 1,602 45 169 Defined benefit pension liability 2,666 3,596 944 504 Provision for site restoration 411 298 112 41 Other financial liabilities 81 134 55 136 Other items 7 Total deferred tax assets 25,438 19,595 824 72 Thereof netted against deferred tax liabilities 8,842 5,922 Total deferred tax assets as per the statement of financial position 16,596 13,673 Trade and other receivable 1,490 498 992 498 Inventories 3,952 2,522 1,424 1,424 Accrued income prepaid expenses 3,111 2,477 628 638 Property, plant and equipment 2,479 554 224 398 Intangible assets 112 277 266 69 Other non-current assets 49 171 101 11 Employee benefit trust 49 3,025 3,045 204 Trade and other payables and advance receivables 29 360 Lease obligations 4 4 4 Other items 133 132 Total deferred tax liabilities 11,274 9,661 144 238 Thereof netted against deferred tax assets 8,842 5,922 Total deferred tax liabilities as per the statement of financial position 2,432 3,739 Net deferred tax assets net change 14,164 9,934 968 310 The movement in the deferred income tax balance is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Opening balance 9,934 8,745 Income statement credit 968 310 Charges booked outside of profit or loss 492 1,251 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3,383 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustment 371 372 Closing balance 14,164 9,934 As at 31 December 2010, the Group had deductible temporary differences on available tax loss carry forwards in the amount of US$100,699 thousand 2009: US$2,182 thousand for which no deferred tax assets were recognised.
The vast majority of the available tax loss carry forwards relates to the acquired logistics business in Austria and Hungary.
Tax loss carry forwards in both tax jurisdictions do not expire.
The balance of available tax loss carry forwards is after the offset of temporary differences on property, plant and equipment in Austria of US$16,780 thousand.
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$522,876 thousand 2009: US$147,080 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 24: Inventories As at 31 December 2010 inventories comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Raw materials and consumables 70,440 47,405 Finished ore pellets 23,668 5,135 Work in progress 8,461 7,565 Other 2,580 104 Provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory 322 573 Total inventories 104,827 59,636 Inventory is held at the lower of cost or net recoverable amount.
Note 25: Trade and other receivables At 31 December 2010 trade and other receivables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Trade receivables 114,923 42,956 Other receivables 848 1,616 Allowance for doubtful receivables 3,881 6,455 Total trade and other receivables 111,890 38,117 Trade receivables at 31 December 2010 includes US$1,057 thousand 2009: US$2,098 thousand owed by related parties.
The detailed related party disclosures are made in note 35.
The movement in the provision for doubtful receivables during the period under review was: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Opening balance 6,455 11,956 Recognition 146 187 Reversal 3,831 5,386 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,046 Foreign currency translation 65 302 Closing balance 3,881 6,455 The following table shows the Groups receivables at the reporting date that are subject to credit risk and the ageing and impairment profile thereon: As at 31.12.10 Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past Gross past due and due nor Less than 45 to Over US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days 90 days 90 days Trade receivables 114,923 3,560 105,302 5,074 529 458 Other receivables 848 321 234 104 4 185 As at 31.12.09 Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past Gross past due and due nor Less than 45 to Over US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days 90 days 90 days Trade receivables 42,956 6,322 33,932 2,160 173 369 Other receivables 1,616 133 1,263 7 12 201 The Groups exposures to credit and currency risks are disclosed in note 38.
Ferrexpo plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 26: Prepayments and other current assets As at 31 December 2010 prepayments and other current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Prepayments to suppliers Electricity and gas 5,348 4,036 Materials and spare parts 2,606 1,879 Services 1,569 1,922 Other prepayments 946 3,110 Loan provided to associate 550 Accrued income 8,337 6,062 Other 116 1,835 Total prepayments and other current assets 18,922 19,394 Note 27: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid The income tax payable balance as of 31 December 2010 is shown below: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Opening balance 1,364 8,604 Income statement charge 73,970 10,162 Tax paid 37,827 18,899 Changes booked through equity 99 Acquisition of subsidiaries 81 Foreign exchange adjustment 4,188 1,398 Closing balance 41,776 1,364 Split by: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Income tax receivable balance 35 9,741 Income tax payable balance 41,811 11,105 Income tax payable at the year end 41,776 1,364 As at 31 December 2010 taxes recoverable and prepaid comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 VAT receivable 101,683 81,269 Other taxes prepaid 1,964 15 Total taxes recoverable and prepaid 103,647 81,284 The VAT receivable results from VAT paid on domestic purchases of goods and services and on the imports of equipment and where relevant services into Ukraine to the extent that this can not be offset on VAT paid on the sale of goods and services.
The Ukrainian government has not been making timely repayments of VAT in 2009 and the first half of the financial year 2010 due to the economic downturn and general financial crisis in 2009 allied with the presidential elections in early 2010 and the ongoing negotiations for financial aid from the IMF.
The increase of the VAT receivable balance is related to higher imports of equipment in the period under review.
During the financial year 2010, the Group received VAT bonds from the Ukrainian government relating to the outstanding VAT receivable balance as of the end of December 2009.
All VAT bonds were sold in the latter half of the financial year 2010 with a discount of US$10,936 thousand.
Subsequent to the issuance of the VAT bonds in August 2010, the Ukrainian government has started repayments of the outstanding VAT.
Further information on the Ukrainian VAT situation is provided in the risk section on page 33.
Ferrexpo plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 27: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid continued As at 31 December 2010 other taxes payable comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Withholding tax 415 3,233 Environmental tax 1,045 2,267 Source tax 317 VAT payable 4,250 Other taxes 8,213 2,076 Total taxes payable 13,923 7,893 Note 28: Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2010 cash and cash equivalents comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Cash at bank and on hand 251,572 11,991 Restricted cash 37,768 Short-term deposits 30,123 Marketable securities 7 Total cash and cash equivalents 319,470 11,991 The balance of restricted cash of US$37,768 thousand, which is related to an acquisition made in December 2010, is held in an escrow account at 31 December 2010 2009: US$nil and unavailable to the Group.
This amount was released subsequent to the year end.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 38.
Note 29: Share capital and reserves US$000 Number of shares Balance at 31 December 2010 and 2009 121,628 613,967,956 Share capital represents the nominal value on issue of the Companys equity share capital, comprising 0.10 Ordinary Shares.
The fully paid share capital of Ferrexpo plc at 31 December 2010 was 613,967,956 2009: 613,967,956 Ordinary Shares at a par value of 0.10 paid for in cash, resulting in share capital of US$121,628 thousand 2009: US$121,628 thousand per the statement of financial position.
The closing balance as of 31 December 2010 and 2009 includes 25,343,814 shares which are held in treasury and 4,019,759 shares held in the employee benefit trust reserve 2009: 4,092,285.
Share premium Share premium represents the premium paid by subscribers for the share capital issues, net of costs directly attributable to the share issue.
Treasury share reserve During September 2008, Ferrexpo plc completed a buyback of 25,343,814 shares for a total cost of US$77,260 thousand.
These shares are currently held as treasury shares by the Group.
The Companies Act 2006 forbids the exercise of any rights including voting rights and the payment of dividends in respect of treasury shares.
Employee benefit trust reserve This reserve represents the treasury shares held by Ferrexpo AG setting up an employee benefit trust reserve.
The reserve is used to satisfy future grants of shares in connection with the listing bonus, as well as future senior management incentive schemes.
Ferrexpo plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 29: Share capital and reserves continued Uniting of interest reserve The uniting of interest reserve represents the difference between the initial investment by Ferrexpo AG in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation to gain control of the subsidiary in 2005 and the net assets acquired, which under the pooling of interests method of accounting are consolidated at their historic cost, less non-controlling interests.
Subsequent increases in the stake have been accounted for using the parent extension concept method of accounting as described in the accounting policy section of the financial statements note 2.
Net unrealised gains reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising on the translation of non-US dollar e. g. hryvnia functional currency operations within the Group into US dollars.
Note 30: Interest bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost.
All loans are in US dollars.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 38.
As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.10 31.12.09 Current Syndicated bank loans secured 38 207,723 Other bank loans secured 38 18,818 41,662 Commodity loans 38 495 124 Obligations under finance leases 38 2,832 1,264 Interest accrued 38 418 730 Total current interest bearing loans and borrowings 22,563 251,503 Non-current Syndicated bank loans secured 38 341,938 Other bank loans secured 38 36,128 933 Commodity loans 38 1,898 Obligations under finance leases 38 21,326 17,210 Total non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings 401,290 18,143 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 423,853 269,646 As at 31 December 2010 the other bank loans are secured by property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of US$68,695 thousand 2009: US$104,579 thousand and finished goods inventory of US$6,600 thousand 2009: nil and rights to a purchase contract in respect of equipment to be delivered of US$20,890 thousand as of the end of the prior year.
Secured Ukrainian property, plant and equipment includes crushing, excavators and mine transport equipment.
The syndicated bank loans of US$350,000 thousand 2009: US$207,723 thousand are secured by rights to proceeds from future export sales of US$378,310 thousand 2009: US$370,444 thousand.
As at 31 December 2010 the Groups major bank debt facility was a US$350,000 thousand 2009: US$335,000 thousand pre-export finance facility, which was fully drawn down as of 31 December 2010.
The remaining outstanding balance of the major bank facility as of 31 December 2009 amounting to US$207,727 thousand was repaid in full on 8 January 2011.
The Group entered into a new bank debt term facility on 23 September 2010 in the amount of US$350,000 thousand, which matures on 31 March 2014, amortising over 24 months following an 18 month grace period.
This pre-export finance facility was drawn in full on 7 October 2010 and was used for refinancing of the pre-export finance facility of US$230,000 thousand that was drawn down on 8 January 2011.
Ferrexpo plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 30: Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued The major bank debt facility as at 31 December 2010 was guaranteed and secured as follows: Ferrexpo AG assigned the rights to revenue from certain sales contracts: Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation assigned all of its rights of certain export contracts for the pellets sales to Ferrexpo AG: the Group pledged its bank account into which all proceeds from the sale of certain iron ore pellet contracts are received: and Ferrexpo AG pledged all its rights under certain contracts for the sale of iron ore pellets and its rights under certain related credit support documents.
Ferrexpo AG is subject to minimum capital requirements which restrict the amount of profit that can be distributed to the parent.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group has two committed facilities amounting to US$65,000 thousand 2009: US$nil available that are not drawn down.
Note 31: Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2010 trade and other payables comprised: As at As at US$000 Note 31.12.10 31.12.09 Payables for equipment 4,307 4,323 Materials and services 41,616 20,255 Dividends payable 31 78 Other 41 42,135 3,146 Total current trade and other payables 88,089 27,802 Trade and other payables at 31 December 2010 includes US$3,263 thousand 2009: US$1,660 thousand due to related parties.
Included in the balance of other payables stated above is a liability of US$37,768 thousand in relation to an acquisition made in December 2010.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 38.
Note 32: Defined benefit pension liability Ukrainian defined benefit plan The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian state pension scheme at the statutory rates in effect during the year, based on gross salary payments.
Such expense is charged to the income statement in the period the related salaries are earned.
Costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Actuarial techniques have been used in calculating the liability related to this retirement obligation at the reporting date.
Gains and losses resulting from the use of internal actuarial valuation methodologies are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of defined benefit obligation.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit liability is the aggregate of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and actuarial gains and losses not recognised reduced by past service cost not yet recognised.
Ferrexpo plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 32: Defined benefit pension liability continued At 31 December 2010 this defined benefit plan covered 4,612 current employees 2009: 4,669 people.
There are 1,193 former employees currently in receipt of pensions 2009: 1,246 people.
In addition, the Group has a legal obligation to its employees in the form of a collective agreement to make a one off payment on retirement to employees with a long term of service: this has also been included in the provision.
Swiss defined benefit plan The employees of the Groups Swiss operation are covered under a multi-employer pension plan, which is governed in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law.
The assets of the pension scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with an insurance company.
The annual pension costs and the defined benefit obligation as well as the fair value of the plan assets are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
The accumulated capital of the employees is subject to interests determined by the local legislation and defined in the regulatory of the pension scheme.
On retirement employees are entitled to receive either a lump sum or an annual proportion of their accumulated capital as a pension underpinned by certain guarantees.
The Group and in certain cases the employees make contributions to the pension scheme as a percentage of the insured salaries and depending on the age of the employees.
At 31 December 2010 this defined benefit plan covered 20 people 2009: 21 people.
Austrian defined benefit plan The Group has an unfunded retirement benefit obligation covering the Austrian employees of Helogistics.
At 31 December 2010, 37 current employees 2009: 42 employees are covered by this plan.
All payments under the scheme are made by the employer as a lump sum in cases of retirement, occupational disability, death in service or redundancy.
The amount payable is dependant on the years of service up to a maximum of a full annual salary.
The annual costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method.
The annual costs and the defined benefit obligation are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
The principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are shown below: Year ended 31.12.10 Year ended 31.12.09 | Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Discount rate 2.40% 5.00% 11.00% 3.25% 15.00% Retail price inflation 1.50% 2.80% 7.00% 1.50% 7.00% Expected future salary increase 3.00% 2.50% 7.00% 3.00% 7.00% Expected future benefit increase 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Female life expectancy years 86.0 n a 74.5 86.0 74.5 Male life expectancy years 82.9 n a 63.5 82.9 63.5 Ferrexpo plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 32: Defined benefit pension liability continued Changes in the net present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Year ended 31.12.10 Year ended 31.12.09 | Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian US$000 scheme scheme scheme Total scheme scheme Total Opening defined benefit obligation 2,234 23,880 26,114 2,096 22,187 24,283 Current service cost 565 1,291 1,856 375 1,142 1,517 Employee contribution 102 102 14 14 Interest cost 73 3,344 3,417 66 3,074 3,140 Contribution by plan participants 14 14 469 469 Benefits paid 220 3,468 3,688 926 2,987 3,913 Actuarial loss 383 28,282 27,899 101 1,230 1,331 Past service cost Acquisition of subsidiaries 819 819 3,502 3,502 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 249 - 27 222 39 4,268 4,229 Closing defined benefit obligation 2,634 819 53,302 56,755 2,234 23,880 26,114 Opening plan assets 1,375 1,375 1,507 1,507 Expected return on plan assets 45 45 48 48 Employer contribution 309 309 474 474 Employee contribution 102 102 14 14 Contribution by plan participants 14 14 469 469 Benefits paid 220 220 926 926 Actuarial loss 194 194 230 230 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 148 148 19 19 Closing plan assets 1,579 1,579 1,375 1,375 Net funded status 1,055 819 53,202 55,176 859 23,880 24,739 Unrecognised actuarial losses 584 34,046 34,630 807 6,333 7,140 Unrecognised past service cost 2,664 2,664 3,113 3,113 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 63 63 34 77 43 Closing balance defined benefit pension liability 408 819 16,592 17,819 18 14,511 14,529 Benefit expense Current service cost 667 1,291 1,958 389 1,142 1,531 Interest cost 72 3,344 3,416 66 3,074 3,140 Amortisation of actuarial loss 68 496 564 37 439 476 Expected return on plan assets 45 45 48 48 Recognised past service cost 382 382 389 389 Employee contribution 102 102 14 14 Curtailment gain Current year expense 660 5,513 6,173 430 5,044 5,474 Net movement on defined benefit pension liability: Opening balance 18 14,511 14,529 62 12,878 12,940 Recognition of liability Benefits expense 660 5,514 6,174 430 5,044 5,474 Benefits paid 3,468 3,468 2,897 2,897 Employer contribution 309 309 474 474 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 40 36 76 514 514 Closing balance 409 819 16,593 17,820 18 14,511 14,529 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 383 28,282 27,796 101 1,230 1,331 Contributions to the defined benefit plans in 2011 are expected to be US$4,065 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 32: Defined benefit pension liability continued The asset allocation of the plan assets of the Swiss scheme is as follows: As at As at 31.12.10 As at 31.12.09 As at US$000 % 31.12.10 % 31.12.09 Scheme assets at fair value Equities 21.5 339 18.3 252 Bonds 45.8 723 49.7 683 Properties 18.1 286 18.1 248 Other 14.6 231 13.9 192 Fair value of scheme assets 100.0 1,579 100 1,375 The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.10 31.12.09 Swiss scheme Swiss scheme Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 4.31% 6.50% Bonds 2.50% 2.50% Properties 2.35% 4.50% Other 4.92% 2.254.00% Total 3.06% 3.50% Actual rate of return on plan assets: Equities 0.91% 28.53% Bonds 2.77% 8.93% Properties 6.11% 5.5933.60% Other 4.72% 44.94 24.63% Total 4.52% 11.60% The actual returns on the plan assets for the Swiss scheme were US$63 thousand 2009: US$114 thousand.
A change in the assumed discount rates would have the following effects: Year ended 31.12.10 Increase Decrease | Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme US$000 0.25% 0.25% 1.00% -0.25% -0.25% -1.00% Effect on the aggregated current service costs and interest costs 13 128 14 144 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 74 16 4,243 78 17 4,931 Year ended 31.12.09 Increase Decrease | Swiss Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme US$000 0.25% 1.00% -0.25% -1.00% Effect on the aggregated current service costs and interest costs 23 122 25 139 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 87 1,460 93 1,650 Ferrexpo plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 32: Defined benefit pension liability continued The history of experience adjustments unrecognised losses is as follows for the current and previous three periods: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.07 Opening balance 7,140 6,294 3,292 945 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 27,899 1,331 6,219 2,347 Experience adjustments on plan assets 194 230 84 Gain on change in assumptions Foreign exchange translation adjustment 603 715 3,301 Closing balance 34,630 7,140 6,294 3,292 Note 33: Provision for site restoration The costs of decommissioning open pit mines are based on the amounts determined by third party experts based on various codes of practice and laws applicable in Ukraine.
The provision represents the discounted value of the estimated costs of decommissioning and restoring the mines at the dates when the deposits are expected to be depleted.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a nominal pre-tax discount rate of 9.22% per year 2009: 10.25%.
The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of the mine, currently estimated to be 2055.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
The increase as of 31 December 2010 is due to the extension of the expected useful lives of the mines.
As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Opening balance 1,268 1,071 Unwind of the discount 133 159 Arising during the year 1,328 76 Translation adjustment 17 38 Closing balance 2,746 1,268 Note 34: Accrued liabilities and deferred income As at 31 December 2010 accrued liabilities and deferred income comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Accrued expenses 12,563 1,582 Accrued employee costs 10,830 10,398 Advances from customers 801 166 Deferred income 1,302 Total accrued liabilities and deferred income 25,496 12,146 Note 35: Related party disclosure During the periods presented the Group entered into arms length transactions with entities under common control of the majority owner of the Group, Kostyantin Zhevago and with other related parties.
Management considers that the Group has appropriate procedures in place to identify and properly disclose transactions with the related parties.
Entities under common control are those under control of Kostyantin Zhevago.
TIS Ruda, in which the Group holds an interest of 48.6%, is the only associated company of the Group.
The other related parties are principally those entities controlled by Olexander Moroz who was a supervisory board member of Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation until 14 May 2010.
Ferrexpo plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 35: Related party disclosure continued The related party transactions entered into by the Group during the periods presented are summarised below: Revenue, expenses, finance income and finance costs Year ended 31.12.10 Year ended 31.12.09 | Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties 1 Other sales 1,398 951 2,263 506 1,480 Total revenue 1,398 951 2,263 506 1,480 2 Purchase of materials 125,093 15,105 4,458 11,930 3 Purchase of services 732 119 444 23 4 General and administration expenses 4,612 1 3,315 5 Selling and distribution 8,362 18,496 11,849 11,736 6 Other expenses 201 21 91 8 Total expenses 130,638 8,362 33,742 8,308 11,849 23,697 7 Finance income 964 96 1,329 267 7 Finance costs 443 816 Net finance income expenses 521 96 513 267 1 Other sales to other related parties consist of scrap metal sales made to Ferrolit, a company under control of a former supervisory board member of Ferrexpo Poltava see above.
Other sales to entities under common control are mainly related to sales of power, steam and water and the lease of premises to Kislorod and Vorskla-Steel.
2 Purchase of materials from entities under common control consists of purchased concentrate in the amount of US$104,367 thousand from Vostock Ruda 31 December 2009: US$1,386 thousand of which US$92,667 thousand are related to third party merchant concentrate purchased by the Group through this company.
The Group currently has surplus pelletising capacity which it utilises where possible by purchasing concentrate produced by third parties on the open market.
Concentrate itself is a tradable end product and as such prices paid reflect the market for that product.
As a result, the Group is able to earn a margin by converting this product into pellets albeit of a lower level than from its own produced ore.
It is the Groups strategy to produce pellets from purchased third party concentrate in order to make full use of the available pelletising capacity where adequate margin can be earned.
The Group earned a margin on the third party concentrate business of US$16,174 thousand.
Vostock Ruda earned fees of US$140 thousand which covered only costs incurred which were associated with procuring and delivering of the purchased third party concentrate.
During the financial year 2010, the Group purchased through Ferrexpo Poltava pellets from SIA Wellmark Latvia, which is controlled by Kostyatin Zhevago.
The related party acted on behalf of the Group and earned a handling commission of US$0.10 per ton amounting in total to US$69 thousand 2009: US$nil.
The Group purchased compressed air and oxygen of US$3,667 thousand 31 December 2009: US$1,414 thousand from Kislorod, company controlled by Kostyantin Zhevago.
Purchase of materials from other related parties includes purchased cast iron balls from Ferrolit of US$14,946 thousand 31 December 2009: US$11,286 thousand, which are used in the production process.
Purchase of materials also comprise the purchase of gas amounting to US$14,432 thousand 2009: nil OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia, which is a related party to Group, at rates which are competitive to those for supply from Naftogaz.
3 Kuoni Attorneys at law Ltd. provided an employee secondment to the Group between December 2009 and June 2010.
The recharge was made at cost and amounted to US$106 thousand.
Other services provided were US$13 thousand US$23 thousand.
Wolfram Kuoni who is a partner in the law firm is also an independent non-executive Director of Ferrexpo plc.
The services were provided on an arm length basis by other members of Kuoni Attorneys at law Ltd. 4 The Group paid US$3,313 thousand to FC Vorskla under a contract entered into on 1 April 2009 and renewed on 10 December 2009 for advertisement, marketing and general PR related services 31 December 2009: US$2,631 thousand.
5 Selling and distribution services are purchased from TIS Ruda, an associated company as the Group holds an interest of 48.6%.
These services relate to port services including port charges, handling costs, agent commissions and storage costs.
Services from other related parties are mainly provided by Slavutich Ruda which is under control of Olexander Moroz, a supervisory board member of Ferrexpo Poltava until 14 May 2010.
Slavutich Ruda provided logistic management services mainly related to custom clearance services and coordination of rail transit.
The total billings amounted to US$18,294 thousand 31 December 2009: US$11,507 thousand and Slavutich Ruda earned commission income of US$755 thousand on these services 31 December 2009: US$793 thousand.
These purchases were at prevailing market rates.
6 Other operating expenses mainly relate to communication services provided by TV & Radio Co amounting to US$108 thousand 31 December 2009: US$60 thousand.
7 The Group has transactional banking arrangements with Bank Finance & Credit Bank FC, which is under common control of Kostyantin Zhevago.
Finance income and expenses relate to these transactional banking arrangements.
Further information is provided under transactional banking arrangements in this note.
Sale and purchases of property, plant and equipment and investments Year ended 31.12.10 Year ended 31.12.09 | Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties 1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 22,459 2,200 1 Between October and December 2010, the Group purchased 300 rail cars from a related party named Trading house Wagonplant LLC in the amount of US$17,500 thousand 31 December 2009: nil.
In 2010, drilling programmes have been conducted by OJSC Donbasgeology at the Northern deposit of Ferrexpo Poltava and at Ferrexpo Belanovo amounting to US$4,959 thousand 31 December 2009: nil.
On 31 March 2009, the Group acquired a trial filter press from Progress Plant Company, an entity under common control, for US$2,200 thousand.
All transactions were on arms length basis and supplied after a competitive tender process.
Ferrexpo plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 35: Related party disclosure continued The outstanding investments balances with related parties for the periods presented are as follows: Year ended 31.12.10 Year ended 31.12.09 | Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties 1 Investments available-for-sale 3,353 2,917 2 Prepayments for PPE 182 3 Loans 2,550 Total non-current assets 3,535 2,917 2,550 1 Investments available-for-sale 626 3 Loans 1,000 4 Trade and other receivables 514 203 15 1,999 93 6 2 Prepayments and other current assets 95 27 1 995 1 5 Cash and cash equivalents 156,807 2,123 Total current assets 157,416 1,230 16 5,742 93 7 6 Trade and other payables 1,563 12 1,668 514 1,146 Total current liabilities 1,563 12 1,668 514 1,146 1 The investments available-for-sale comprised of shareholdings in LLC Atol 9.95%, OJSC Stahanov 3.14% and Vostock Ruda 1.10%.
The majority ownership of these companies is held by the principal shareholder of Ferrexpo plc and OJSC Stahanov is also listed at the Ukrainian stock exchange.
The changes of the values in the table above are related to fair value adjustments recorded during the financial year 2010.
The shareholdings for all investments remained unchanged during the periods disclosed above.
The investment in LLC Atol was subject of an additional impairment of US$2,124 thousand recorded as of 30 June 2010 31 December 2009: US$nil resulting in a full impairment of this investment.
Further information is provided in note 21 of the Annual Report & Accounts 2010.
2 Prepayments for drilling programmes on the Northern Deposits in the amount of US$182 thousand have been made to OJSC Donbasgeology in period ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: US$nil.
The company is controlled by Kostyantin Zhevago.
3 Loans were granted to TIS Ruda in 2007 and 2008, which have been partially repaid during the financial year 2009 and 2010.
The Group holds an interest of 48.6% in this Ukrainian company operating a port located on the Black Sea and is an associated company of the Group.
The company provides port services to the Group see above.
4 As of 31 December 2010 trade and other receivables included outstanding amounts from Kislorod amounting to US$311 thousand, which are mainly related to sales of power, steam and water 31 December 2009: US$368 thousand.
The outstanding balances as of the end of the prior year included US$1,169 thousand relating to the disposal of shares in Vostock Ruda to Progress Plant Company during the financial year 2008.
Both companies are under common control of Kostyantin Zhevago.
5 As of 31 December 2010 cash and cash equivalents with Bank F&C were US$156,807 thousand 31 December 2009: US$2,123 thousand.
Further information is provided under transactional banking arrangements below.
6 Trade and other payables due to entities under common control amounting to US$1,013 thousand as of 31 December 2010 related to concentrate purchased from Vostock Ruda 31 December 2009: US$ il and to compressed air and US$416 thousand 31 December 2009: US$ 368 thousand to oxygen purchased from Kislorod.
Trade and other payables due to other related parties amounting to US$1,291 thousand as of 31 December 2010 related to purchased material from Ferrolit 31 December 2009: US$989 thousand.
Transactional banking arrangements The Group has transactional banking arrangements with Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C in Ukraine which is under common control of the majority shareholder of Ferrexpo plc.
Finance income and finance costs are disclosed in the table above.
The Group entered into a multi-currency revolving loan facility agreement in April 2007 with Bank F&C which expired on 16 April 2010 and has been extended to 16 April 2013 upon the same terms and conditions except for two changes.
The maximum facility limit has been increased from UAH50,500 thousand to UAH80,000 thousand US$10,048 thousand at the exchange rate as of 31 December 2010 and the interest rates increased for UAH advances from 16% to 18% per annum.
The total value of pledges for this loan facility is US$13,300 thousand.
Other related party transaction In August 2009, the Group paid Swiss Withholding Tax of US$984 thousand on behalf of Kostyantin Zhevago on costs incurred for the Initial Public Offering completed in June 2007.
This was settled in accordance with terms and conditions entered into at the time of the Initial Public Offering of the Company.
Ferrexpo plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 36: Employee benefits expenses Employee benefits expenses for the year ended 31 December 2010 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Wages and salaries 53,774 39,905 Social security costs 17,037 11,520 Post-employment benefits 2,172 2,653 Other employee costs 2,186 7,248 Share-based payments 923 3,850 Total employee benefits expenses 76,092 65,176 Average number of employees Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Production 6,897 6,319 Marketing and distribution 174 169 Administration 1,119 958 Other 724 907 Total average number of employees 8,914 8,353 Compensation for key management was as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Wages and salaries 4,927 4,540 Social security costs 277 646 Other employee costs 361 287 Total compensation for key management 5,565 5,472 Share-based payments, calculated under the Black-Scholes option pricing model, amounting to US$1,409 thousand 2009: US$560 thousand are included in wages and salaries.
Under this model, the expected future costs of the award grants made to employees is spread over the period of vesting.
The balances above include compensation for Non-executive and Executive Directors as well as for other key management personnel.
Refer to the Remuneration Report for details of compensation relating to Non-executive and Executive Directors.
Note 37: Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2010 are as follows: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Less than one year 2,128 849 Between one and five years 5,587 2,374 More than five years 45,813 16,479 Total minimum rentals payable 53,528 19,702 During the year ended 31 December 2010 US$1,076 thousand was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2009: US$1,665 thousand.
The Group leases land and buildings under operating leases.
The leases on land typically run for 49 years, with a lease period of 5 to 10 years on buildings.
Ferrexpo plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 37: Commitments and contingencies continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group does not have any commitments from lease agreements acting as lessor.
Finance lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: As at 31.12.10 Present value of Minimum payments US$000 payments note 30 Less than one year 5,389 2,832 Between one and five years 20,142 13,162 More than five years 8,245 8,164 Total minimum lease payments 33,776 24,158 Less: amounts representing finance charges 9,618 Present value of minimum lease payments 24,158 24,158 As at 31.12.09 Present value of Minimum payments US$000 payments note 30 Less than one year 1,264 1,264 Between one and five years 9,023 6,049 More than five years 8,188 2,906 Total minimum lease payments 18,475 10,219 Less: amounts representing finance charges 8,256 Present value of minimum lease payments 10,219 10,219 Other As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Capital commitments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 70,618 41,404 Legal In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
Management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of the Group.
Tax and other regulatory compliance Ukrainian legislation and regulations regarding taxation and custom regulations continue to evolve.
Legislation and regulations are not always clearly written and are subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national authorities, and other Governmental bodies.
Instances of inconsistent interpretations are not unusual.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting cross border transactions, create a risk of additional tax payments having to be made by the Group, which could have a material effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
The Group does not believe that these risks are any more significant than those of similar enterprises in Ukraine.
Ferrexpo plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 38: Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at 31.12.10 Financial AvailableAt fair value liabilities for-sale through measured at Loans and financial profit or amortised Total at US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost 31.12.10 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 28 319,470 319,470 Available-for-sale investments 21 3,356 3,356 Trade and other receivables 25 111,890 111,890 Other financial assets 1,164 1,164 Total financial assets 432,524 3,356 435,880 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 31 88,089 88,089 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 34 23,393 23,393 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 30 423,853 423,853 Other financial liabilities Total financial liabilities 535,335 535,335 As at 31.12.09 Financial AvailableAt fair value liabilities for-sale through measured at Loans and financial profit or amortised Total at US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost 31.12.09 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 28 11,991 11,991 Available-for-sale investments 21 3,543 3,543 Trade and other receivables 25 38,117 38,117 Other financial assets 3,719 3,719 Total financial assets 53,827 3,543 57,370 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 31 24,656 24,656 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 34 12,146 12,146 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 30 269,646 269,646 Other financial liabilities 3,161 3,161 Total financial liabilities 309,609 309,609 Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk including currency and commodity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Ferrexpo plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 38: Financial instruments continued The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee and the CFO.
The Group operates a centralised financial risk management structure under the management of the Executive Committee, accountable to the Board.
The Executive Committee delegates certain responsibilities to the CFO.
The CFOs responsibilities include authority for approving all new physical, commercial or financial transactions that create a financial risk for the Group.
Additionally, the CFO controls the management of treasury risks within each of the business units in accordance with a Board approved Treasury Policy.
Financial instrument risk exposure and management Natural hedges that can be identified and their effectiveness quantified are used in preference to financial risk management instruments.
Derivative transactions may be executed for risk mitigation purposes only speculation is not permitted under the approved Treasury Policy and are designed to have the effect of reducing risk on underlying market or credit exposures.
Appropriate operational controls ensure operational risks are not increased disproportionately to the reduction in market or credit risk.
The Group has not used any financial risk management instruments that are derivative in nature, or other hedging instruments, in this or prior periods.
Credit risk Trade and other receivables The Group through its trading operations enters into binding contracts which contain obligations that create exposure to credit, counterparty and country risks.
It is the primary objective of the Group to manage such risks to reduce uncertainty of collection from buyers.
A secondary objective is to minimise the cost of reducing risks within acceptable parameters.
In order to react to the significant weakness in iron ore demand during the financial year 2009, certain sales arrangements with customers have been changed from long-term to spot.
Trade finance is used to balance risk and payment.
These risks include the creditworthiness of the buyer, and the political and economic stability of the buyers country.
Trade finance generally refers to the financing of individual transactions or a series of revolving transactions and are often self-liquidating whereby the lending bank stipulates that all sales proceeds to be collected are applied to settle the loan, the remainder returned to the Group.
Trade finance transactions are approved by the Group treasurer.
The primary objective is to ensure that the margins paid and conditions applicable should be the same as, or better than, those which other organisations with similar credit worthiness would achieve, and compared with other financing available to the Group.
Credit risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a buyer will default, by failing to make required payments in a timely manner or to comply with other conditions of an obligation or agreement.
Where appropriate, the Group uses letters of credit to assist in mitigating such risks.
Counterparty risk crystallises when a party to an agreement defaults.
Where letters of credit are used to minimise this risk, the Group uses a confirming bank with a similar or higher credit rating to mitigate country and or credit risk of the issuing bank.
Country risk is the potential volatility of foreign assets, whether receivables or investments, that is due to political and or financial events in a given country.
During the year the Group reduced its exposure to Ukraine trade receivables risk by increasing the level of production exported.
Group treasury monitors the concentration of all outstanding risks associated with any entity or country, and reports to the Group CFO on a timely basis.
Investment securities The Group limits its cash exposure to credit, counterparty and country risk by only investing in liquid securities and with counterparties that are incorporated in an A or better S&P rated OECD country: and is rated by S&P or Moodys at a level to long-term A S&P or short-term A2 S&P or better.
Ferrexpo plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 38: Financial instruments continued Recognising that the principal activities of the Group are predominantly in Ukraine, special consideration is given to investments with Ukrainian counterparties.
Exceptions may be made under the following conditions: the counterparty is resident in Ukraine: and the counterparty is included in the Top 15 financial institutions in Ukraine based on the Groups assessment of the creditworthiness of the financial institution.
Cash and deposits are held with the Groups transactional bank in Ukraine, which is a related party financial institution.
This bank is registered with the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving and disbursing payments under Group intercompany loans, and is an approved Ukrainian counterparty.
The Group is therefore exposed to Ukraine country risk.
Guarantees The Groups policy is to provide financial guarantees only to wholly-owned subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010 Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Finance plc were jointly and severally liable under a US$350 million loan agreement having an outstanding balance of US$350,000 thousand 31 December 2009: US$207,723 thousand.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Cash and cash equivalents 319,470 11,991 Trade and other receivables 111,890 38,117 Other financial assets 1,164 3,719 Total maximum exposure to credit risk 432,524 53,827 The total receivables balance relating to the Groups top three customers was US$73,749 thousand 2009: US$24,999 thousand making up 65.9% of the total amounts receivable 2009: 68.5%.
Impairment profile The Groups exposure to credit risk relating to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 25.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation by holding surplus cash or undrawn credit facilities.
The Group prepares detailed rolling cash flow forecasts, which assist it in monitoring cash flow requirements and optimising its cash return on investments.
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand and or lines of credit to meet expected operational expenses for a period of 30 days, including the servicing of financial obligations: this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
Ferrexpo plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 38: Financial instruments continued The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities by interest type: As at 31.12.10 Less than Between Between US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Interest bearing Syndicated loans secured 142,288 199,651 341,939 Other banks secured 19,313 10,750 27,275 57,338 Obligation under finance lease 2,832 2,999 18,327 24,158 Interest accrued 418 418 Future interest payable 29,812 24,305 13,703 67,820 Non interest bearing Trade and other payables 88,089 88,089 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 23,393 23,393 Other financial liabilities Total financial liabilities 163,857 180,342 258,956 603,155 As at 31.12.09 Less than Between Between US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Interest bearing Syndicated loans secured 207,727 207,727 Other banks secured 31,170 6,044 5,500 42,714 Obligation under finance lease 1,264 1,419 15,792 18,475 Interest accrued 730 730 Future interest payable 9,923 3,827 2,674 16,424 Non interest bearing Trade and other payables 24,656 24,656 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 12,146 12,146 Other financial liabilities 3,161 3,161 Total financial liabilities 290,777 11,290 23,966 326,033 Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group.
Operating currencies for the Group are primarily the Ukrainian hryvnia, but also US dollars, Swiss francs, euro and sterling.
The Groups major lines of borrowings and the majority of its sales are denominated in US dollars, with costs of local Ukrainian production mainly in hryvnia.
During the year the value of the hryvnia moved from being pegged to a managed float.
Further devaluation of the Ukrainian hryvnia will reduce the operating costs of the production unit in US dollars terms and the value of hryvnia payables recorded in the statement of financial position at the year end in US dollars.
As the majority of sales and receivables are denominated in US dollars, a devaluation in the local currency will result in operating exchange gains recorded in the income statement.
With a devaluation of the local currency, US dollar denominated loans held by the Ukrainian subsidiary will result in non-operating exchange losses to the extent these are not matched by US dollar denominated assets.
Fixed assets are similarly held in local currency amounts and a devaluation in the currency will result in reduced net asset vales which are recorded in reserves.
The National Bank of Ukraine NBU manages and determines the official exchange rates.
An inter-bank market for exchange of currencies exists in Ukraine and is monitored by the NBU.
The Group, through its financial institutions, exchanges currencies at bank offered market rates.
Ferrexpo plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 38: Financial instruments continued Trade receivables are predominately in US dollars and are not hedged.
Trade payables denominated in a US dollars are also not hedged on the market, but are matched against US dollar currency receipts.
This includes the interest expense which is principally payable in US dollars.
Trade receivables and trade payables in other currencies are not hedged as a forward market for the currency is generally not available.
Other Group monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are considered immaterial as the exposure to currency risk mainly relates to corporate costs within Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: As at 31.12.10 Ukraine US Swiss Other US$000 hryvnia dollar Euro franc currencies Total Financial assets 111,589 38,315 375 357 150,636 Financial liabilities Syndicated bank loans secured Other banks secured 16,735 16,735 Obligation under finance lease 24,088 24,088 Interest accrued 75 75 Total borrowings 40,898 40,898 Trade and other payables 6,910 501 242 67 7,720 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 81 81 Other financial liabilities 68 68 Total financial liabilities 47,808 501 242 216 48,767 Net financial assets liabilities 63,781 37,814 133 141 101,869 As at 31.12.09 Ukraine US Swiss Other US$000 hryvnia dollar Euro franc currencies Total Financial assets 249 816 2 76 44 1,187 Financial liabilities Other banks secured 26,840 124 26,964 Obligation under finance lease 18,475 18,475 Interest accrued 188 5 193 Total borrowings 45,503 129 45,632 Trade and other payables 2,246 811 763 139 3,959 Other financial liabilities 17 5 419 106 547 Total financial liabilities 47,766 945 1,182 245 50,138 Net financial assets liabilities 249 46,950 943 1,106 201 48,951 Interest rate risk The Group predominantly borrows funds that are at floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate movements.
The interest rate exposure to US dollars remained relatively low during the period, and no interest rate swaps have been entered into in this or prior periods.
Ferrexpo plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 38: Financial instruments continued Profile At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: As at 31.12.10 Other Floating Fixed non-interest US$000 interest interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 161,912 156,507 1,051 319,470 Available-for-sale investments 3,356 3,356 Trade receivables 111,890 111,890 Other financial assets 1,000 164 1,164 Total financial assets 161,912 157,507 116,461 435,880 Weighted av.
interest rate % 0.1% 1.7% Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 88,089 88,089 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 23,393 23,393 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 403,832 19,603 418 423,853 Other financial liabilities - Total financial liabilities 403,832 19,603 111,900 535,335 Weighted av.
interest rate % 5.7% As at 31.12.09 Other Floating Fixed non-interest US$000 interest interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 10,227 1,465 299 11,991 Available-for-sale investments 3,543 3,543 Trade receivables 38,117 38,117 Other financial assets 2,550 1,169 3,719 Total financial assets 12,777 1,465 43,128 57,370 Weighted av.
interest rate % 7.7% Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 24,656 24,656 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 12,146 12,146 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 251,036 18,610 269,646 Other financial liabilities 3,161 3,161 Total financial liabilities 251,036 18,610 39,963 309,609 Weighted av.
interest rate % 4.1% The interest rate maturity profile for financial liabilities is shown under the liquidity risk section.
The interest rate maturity profile for financial assets is all current for both years, except for US$1,000 thousand of the floating rate loan to associate which matures between two to five years as at 31 December 2010 2009: US$2,000 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 38: Financial instruments continued Commodity risk The Group is exposed to longer-term movements in the price of iron ore, but does not have a commodity risk exposure to its financial assets and liabilities once the sale has been made.
Trade receivables are based on a fixed contract price, and so do not fluctuate with iron ore market prices.
Similarly finished goods are held at cost, with revaluation to a spot price not applicable for iron ore pellets, there being no tradable exchange in the product to ascertain its market value.
Sensitivity analysis A 20% strengthening of the US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased decreased income statement and equity by the amounts shown below.
This assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.10 31.12.09 Income Income statement statement US$000 Equity Equity UAH 12,756 9,440 EUR 7,563 189 CHF 27 221 Total 5,166 9,030 A 20% weakening of the US dollar against the above currencies would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the Group does not hold any derivatives eg interest rate swaps.
Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity for fixed and variable rate instruments An increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Net finance charge 2,885 2,080 A decrease in of 100 bp would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Set out below are the carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position: Carrying amount Fair value | As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.09 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 3,356 3,543 3,356 3,543 Cash and cash equivalents 319,470 11,991 319,470 11,991 Total financial assets 322,826 15,534 322,826 15,534 Financial liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 423,853 269,646 423,853 276,419 Total financial liabilities 423,853 269,646 423,853 276,419 Ferrexpo plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 38: Financial instruments continued The fair values of interest bearing loans and borrowings are based on the cash flows discounted using market interest rates.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and payables are approximately equal to their carrying amounts due to their short maturity.
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31.12.10 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 3,356 3,356 Total available-for-sale financial assets 3,356 3,356 As at 31.12.09 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 1,449 2,104 3,553 Total available-for-sale financial assets 1,449 2,104 3,553 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in the period.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets As at As at 31.12.2010 31.12.2009  for-sale financial financial assets assets Unquoted Unquoted US$000 equities equities Opening balance 2,104 4,000 Total gains or losses: in profit or loss 2,104 1,896 in other comprehensive income Purchases Issues Settlements Transfer out of level 3 Closing balance 2,104 Ferrexpo plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 38: Financial instruments continued Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding non-controlling interests, and the level of dividends to Ordinary Shareholders.
Please refer to the Statement of Changes in Equity for details of the capital position of the Group.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
Access to securing borrowings in the context of the events affecting the global financial credit markets during the year has affected the elasticity at which the Board can maintain this balance.
The Board continues to support maintaining a sound capital base balanced against these market constraints.
The Board maintains a dividend policy consistent with the Groups profile, reflecting the investment activities the Group is making on major projects for future production growth and the cash generated by existing operations, whilst maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than a bank covenant requirement to maintain consolidated equity in respect of the Ferrexpo AG group of US$300,000 thousand including non-controlling interests.
Compliance is ensured by balancing dividend payments against the earnings of the Ferrexpo AG group.
For more information about the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, see note 30.
Note 39: Share-based payments Listing bonus share award Share awards were granted in 2007 to certain senior management following the successful listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007.
A proportion of the award vests immediately with the remainder vesting over a period of up to four years, provided that the individual is still in the employment of the Group on the date of vesting.
It has been assumed that all awards will vest.
The fair values of the awards were determined to be the closing share price on the date of award.
The weighted average fair value WAFV of awards granted was determined at the date of grant to be US$3.33 per share.
The unvested portion of the award does not accrue dividends.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The expense recognised under the scheme during the year to 31 December 2010 is US$55 thousand 2009: US$427 thousand, all of which arose from equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
000 Beginning of the year 3.63 3.63 91 442 Awards granted during the year Vested during the year 3.63 3.63 91 349 Forfeited during the year 3.63 2 Outstanding at 31 December 3.63 91 Long-term incentive plan LTIP The following share awards were granted under the LTIP and the Interim LTIP in the previous financial years.
The LTIP runs for three years whereas the period for the Interim LTIP is two years.
000 2010 LTIP 2009 LTIP 2008 LTIP Interim LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.10 330 330 Year ended 31.12.09 320 320 Year ended 31.12.08 695 415 1,110 The LTIP and Interim LTIP are subject to a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to a comparator group, measured over the vesting period, as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Ferrexpo plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 39: Share-based payments continued The following expenses have been recognised in 2010 and 2009 in respect of the LTIP and the Interim LTIP: US$000 2010 LTIP 2009 LTIP 2008 LTIP Interim LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.10 178 188 557 923 Year ended 31.12.09 80 1,836 1,480 3,396 The awards of the Interim LTIP were forfeited in 2009 as they did not satisfy the market related performance conditions as of 31 December 2009.
The fair value of these awards was assessed at their grant date using a simulation or Monte Carlo model consistent with the mathematics underlying the standard Black-Scholes options pricing model, extended to allow for the performance conditions.
Each simulation of the model projects the Companys and comparators share prices with reinvested dividends over the vesting period, allowing for the volatilities and correlations between the shares as estimated from historical data.
From this projection the proportion of awards vesting, and the value to employees, is calculated.
100,000 simulations were run to calculate the fair values.
The fair value is set as the average value over all the simulations.
000 LTIP Beginning of the year 4.11 5.52 810 695 Awards granted during the year 3.28 1.94 330 320 Forfeited during the year 3.47 5.52 235 180 Lapsed during the year 5.52 25 Vested during the year Outstanding at 31 December 3.92 4.11 905 810 Interim LTIP Beginning of the year 5.22 Awards granted during the year 415 Forfeited during the year 5.22 Vested during the year Outstanding at 31 December 415 Note 40: Operating profit by function Before Before adjusting Adjusted Year ended adjusting Adjusted Year ended US$000 Notes items items 31.12.10 items items 31.12.09 Revenue 6 1,294,900 1,294,900 648,667 648,667 Cost of sales 7 481,857 481,857 341,067 341,067 Gross profit 813,043 813,043 307,600 307,600 Selling and distribution expenses 8 212,006 212,006 162,266 162,266 General and administrative expenses 9 49,175 49,175 43,161 43,161 Other income 10 4,515 4,515 4,102 4,102 Other expenses 11 5,938 11,291 17,229 3,418 2,468 5,886 Operating foreign exchange gain 12 1,078 1,078 2,534 2,534 Operating profit 549,361 11,291 538,070 105,391 102,923 Share of profit of associates 14 4,155 4,155 1,304 1,304 Total profit from operations and associates 553,516 11,291 542,225 106,695 2,468 104,227 Ferrexpo plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 40: Operating profit by function continued Summary of adjusted items: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.10 31.12.09 Operating adjusting items Under recovery of VAT receivable 27 10,936 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 1,618 2,757 Gain on bargain purchase 15 2,623 503 Initial public offering costs 39 55 427 Losses gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,305 213 Total operating adjusting items 11,291 2,468 Note 41: Business combination Subsidiaries acquired On 31 December 2010, the Group acquired Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries Helogistics in order to develop the Groups distribution and logistics capabilities.
The acquisition agreements were signed on 14 December 2010 and the completion of the acquisition was subject to the approval from the Austrian merger control authorities which was obtained on 10 January 2011.
The Group however obtained effective control on the 14 December 2010 and Helogistics has been consolidated as at the 31 December 2010 as no material transactions or events occurred between 14 December 2010 and 31 December 2010 that would have a material impact on the amounts recognised in the income statement in that period.
The controlled entities acquired as part of this business combination are identified below: Proportion Country of of shares Subsidiaries incorporation Principal activity acquired in % Helogistics Holding GmbH Group Austria Holding company 100.0 EDDSG GmbH Austria Logistic company 100.0 DDSG Tankschiffahrt GmbH Austria Logistic company 100.0 Helogistics Transport GmbH Austria Logistic company 100.0 Mahart Duna Cargo Kft.
Hungary Logistic company 100.0 Pancar Kft.
Hungary Logistic company 100.0 Consideration transferred No consideration has been transferred in cash for this acquisition to previous shareholders of the Helogistics.
Transaction costs of US$1,624 thousand have been incurred and expensed by the Group.
These costs are included in general and administrative expenses.
In relation with the acquisition of Helogistics Holding GmbH, the Group acquired bank debts amounting to US$95,472 thousand for a consideration transferred in cash to the lending banks of US$37,768 thousand.
The amount was held in an escrow account at 31 December 2010 as the financial closing of the transaction was on 19 January 2011.
The debts acquired have been fair valued for the purpose of the acquisition accounting.
There is no contingent consideration to be paid by the Group to the previous shareholders of Helogistics.
Ferrexpo plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 41: Business combination continued Assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition The provisional fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed of Helogistics as at the date of acquisition were: Helogistics Holding US$000 GmbH Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 65,348 Financial assets 4 Intangible assets 1,637 Deferred tax assets 5,258 Current assets Inventories 2,252 Trade and other receivables 3,096 Prepayments and other current assets 4,179 Available-for-sale financial assets 7 Cash and cash equivalents 582 Assets classified as held for sale 3,149 Total assets acquired 85,512 Non-current liabilities Defined benefit pension liability 819 Deferred tax liabilities 1,875 Current liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 38,726 Trade and other payables 14,596 Income taxes payable 81 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 15,911 Total liabilities assumed 72,008 Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired 13,504 The fair value of intangible assets consists of licenses amounting to US$397 thousand and capitalised software of US$2,140 thousand.
The license were capitalised as acquired intangible assets in the course of the accounting for the business combination.
The Group acquired trade and other receivables amounting to US$3,096 thousand.
This amount is net of an allowance for doubtful receivables of US$564 thousand.
The outstanding balances with the five largest customers representing 65.3% of the total balance as of 31 December 2010 were fully paid in March 2011.
The initial accounting for the acquisition of Helogistics has been provisionally determined at the end of the reporting period.
At the date of finalisation of these financial statements, the fair values of the vessels acquired and the certain liabilities assumed had not been finalised and they have therefore been provisionally determined based on the directors best estimate of the likely values.
The actual fair values may also impact the recognised fair values of the other assets acquired as part of the business combination.
Non-controlling interests from business combination The Group acquired 100% of Helogistics Holding GmbH which wholly owned its subsidiaries listed above.
The business combination did not result in the recognition of any non-controlling interests to be measured at fair value.
Bargain purchase arising on acquisition The acquisition of Helogistics resulted in a bargain purchase of US$2,623 thousand recognised in profit or loss as of 31 December 2010.
Helogistics Holding US$000 GmbH Consideration paid in cash Value of pre-existing loan balances 10,881 Less: fair value of identifiable net assets acquired 13,504 Bargain purchase on acquisition 2,623 Ferrexpo plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Note 41: Business combination continued Loans amounting to US$10,881 thousand were provided by the Group to Helogistics prior to the acquisition.
These loan balances were considered to be settled for the purpose of the business combination.
The amount of US$10,881 thousand reflects the fair value of the loans granted.
As a result of overcapacity in its market, Helogistics sustained continual losses allowing Ferrexpo to acquire Helogistics at a consideration below the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, resulting in the recognition of a gain on bargain purchase amounting to US$2,623 thousand.
Further information is provided on page 23 in the Operational Review of the Annual Report.
No tax impact is expected on the gain on bargain purchase arising on this transaction.
Net cash outflow on acquisition Helogistics Holding US$000 GmbH Consideration paid in cash 1 Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 582 2 Transaction costs of the acquisition 1,624 Net cash outflow on acquisition net of cash acquired 1,042 1 Included in cash flow from investing activities.
2 Included in cash flow from operating activities.
Impact of acquisition on the result of the Group Had this business combination been affected at 1 January 2010, the revenue of the Group would have been US$52,200 thousand higher, and the profit for the year would have been US$13,300 thousand lower.
The Directors of the Group consider these pro-forma numbers to represent an approximate measure of the performance of the combined group on an annualised basis and to provide a reference point for comparison in future periods.
Note 42: Events after the reporting period No material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred subsequent to the year end other than the proposed dividend disclosed in note 18 and the completion of the acquisition of Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries described in note 41.
