notIce of AnnuAL GenerAL meetInG Friday 6th May 2011 at equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant to the 11.00am in The Club Room, The Scotsman Hotel, 20 North Bridge, authority conferred by Resolution 9 as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such Edinburgh EH1 1TR allotment provided that this power shall be limited: PLEASE NOTE that the twentieth Annual General Meeting of FORTH PORTS PLC will be held in The Club Room, i to the allotment of equity securities for cash in connection with or pursuant to a rights issue or any The Scotsman Hotel, 20 North Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1TR at 11.00am on Friday 6th May 2011, for the other offer in favour of the holders of equity securities and any other persons entitled to following purposes: participate therein in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to the respective number of equity Ordinary Business 1 To receive the Directors Report and accounts securities then held by them or, as appropriate, the number of such securities which such other for the year ended 31st December 2010. persons are, for those purposes, deemed to hold but not subject to such exclusions or other 2 To declare a final dividend of 20p per Ordinary Share in the capital of the Company.
arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary, expedient or appropriate to deal with 3 To re-elect Mr. D. H. Richardson as a Director.
any fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties which may arise under the laws of, or the 4 To re-elect Mr. C. G. Hammond as a Director.
requirement of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory or otherwise: 5 To re-elect Mr. J. L. Tuckey as a Director.
and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to 6 To re-appoint Mr. S. R. Paterson as a Director.
sub-paragraph i above of equity securities and or the transfer of shares out of Treasury following 7 To receive and consider the Directors Remuneration purchase pursuant to Resolution 11 vi below up to an aggregate nominal value of 1.14m: Report for the year ended 31st December 2010. and shall expire on the date of the next Annual General 8 To ratify the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution, or on 5th August 2012 whichever is the Company and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
earlier, the Prescribed Period save that after such expiry, the Directors may allot equity securities in Special Business pursuance of an offer or agreement made by the Company during the Prescribed Period which would 9 To consider and if thought fit to pass the following Ordinary Resolution: or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally 11 To consider and if thought fit pass the following Special and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise Resolution: all powers of the Company to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.2m during the period expiring on the date of the next Annual General accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make one or more market purchases within Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution, or on 5th August 2012 whichever is the the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 on The London Stock Exchange of Ordinary earlier, the Prescribed Period and at any time after that pursuant to any offer or agreement made by the Shares of 50p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares upon and subject to the following Company during the Prescribed Period which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the conditions: expiry of the Prescribed Period.
i the maximum number of such Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 6.862 million 10 To consider and if thought fit pass the following Special Resolution: shares representing 15% of the Companys issued share capital : THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above, the ii the minimum price which may be paid by the Company for each Ordinary Share is 50 pence Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 571 1 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot exclusive of any tax and expenses : 98 notes to notIce of AnnuAL GenerAL meetInG iii the maximum price exclusive of any tax and 1.
Entitlement to attend, vote and speak expenses which may be paid by the Company for Only those members registered on the Companys an Ordinary Share is an amount not more than 5% register of members at 6pm on 4th May 2011 shall be above the average of the middle market values for entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
Registration an Ordinary Share taken from The London Stock will be available from 10.15am.
The Meeting is accessible Exchange Daily Official List for the five business for wheelchair users.
Please ask at reception if you days immediately preceding the day on which the require assistance.
Ordinary Share is purchased: iv unless previously revoked or varied the authority Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the next Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting any Annual General Meeting of the Company after the question relating to the business being dealt with at the passing of this Resolution or on 5th August 2012, Meeting which is put by a member attending the Meeting, whichever shall be the earlier: except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable v the Company may enter into a contract or contracts in the interests of the Company or the good order of the for the purchase of Ordinary Shares under the Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so authority hereby conferred before the expiry of this would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
authority which would or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may 2.
Proxy appointment make a purchase or purchases of Ordinary Shares A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint in pursuance of any such contract or contracts a proxy to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the notwithstanding such expiry: Meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy vi and any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the cancelled or if the Directors so determine and rights attached to a different share or shares held by that subject to the provision of the Companies member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares A proxy may be appointed: Regulations 2003 and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, to be held as a by completion and return of the proxy form enclosed Treasury Shares.
with the Notice of Meeting: b via the internet at www.
You will need 12 T o consider and if thought fit pass the following Special your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Resolution: Number shown on your Form of Proxy: or c via the internet at www.
co. uk for shareholders THA T a general meeting other than an Annual General who have already registered with Equinitis Shareview Meeting may be called on not less than 14 days clear Service: or notice.
d via the CREST electronic proxy appointment service, as described in paragraph 3 below.
13 T o consider and if thought fit pass the following Ordinary Resolution: To be valid any proxy form or other such instrument appointment proxy must be received by the Companys THA T the Forth Ports PLC 2011 Long-Term Incentive Registrars, Equiniti Limited, no later than 48 hours before Plan the 2011 Plan to be constituted by the rules the time fixed for the Meeting.
The return of a completed produced in draft to this meeting and for the purposes proxy form will not prevent a member attending the of identification initialled by the Chairman, the principal meeting and voting in person at the Meeting.
terms of which are summarised in the Appendix, be and is hereby approved and adopted and the Directors be A Vote withheld option is provided on the proxy form and they are hereby authorised to do all acts and things to enable you to instruct your proxy to abstain on any necessary to establish and carry the 2011 Plan into effect.
It should, however, be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted BY ORDER OF THE BOARD in the calculation of the proportion of votes For and Against a resolution.
Morag McNeill Group Company Secretary 3.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST 1 Prince of Wales Dock CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy through Leith, Edinburgh the CREST electronic appointment service may do so by EH6 7DX using the procedures described in the CREST manual available at www.
CREST personal 30th March 2011 members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99 notes to notIce of AnnuAL GenerAL meetInG Continued In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using holder of their shares and not the Company on matters the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST relating to their investments in the Company.
message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland 5.
Corporate Representatives Limited specification, and must contain the information A corporation which is a member can appoint one or more required for such instruction, as described in the CREST corporate representatives who may exercise, on its behalf, manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes all its powers as a member, provided that no more than the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the one corporate representative exercises powers over the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in same share.
order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent CREST ID RA19 not later than 48 6.
Issued Shares and Total Voting Rights hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
For this As at 29th March 2011 being the last business day prior purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time to publication of this Notice the Companys issued share as determined by the timestamp applied to the message capital consists of 45.7m Ordinary Shares carrying one by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers vote each.
No shares are held in treasury.
agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Website publication of audit concerns change of instructions to proxies appointed through It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members CREST should be communicated to the appointee of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act through other means.
2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors sponsors, or voting service providers should note that report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available before the meeting or any circumstance connected with special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, the previous meeting at which annual report and accounts apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
The business which may be dealt with at the It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned Meeting includes any statement that the Company has to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal been required under section 527 of the Companies Act member, or sponsored member, or who has appointed 2006 to publish on its website.
a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action 8.
Website giving information regarding the Meeting as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is A copy of this notice and other information required by transmitted by means of the CREST system by any Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, on the Companys website www.
where applicable their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of 9.
Documents available for inspection the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the Copies of the following documents will be available for CREST system and timings.
inspection at the registered office of the Company from the date of this Notice on any weekday except Saturdays, The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy Sundays and public holidays during normal business instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation hours until the time of the Meeting and at the place of the 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Meeting from 15 minutes before the Meeting until it ends: 4.
Nominated Persons i Service contracts between the Company and the Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person Executive Directors: nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 ii Letters of appointment between the Company and the to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, Non-Executive Directors.
under an agreement with him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be 10.
Communication appointed or to have someone else appointed as a Members may not use any electronic address provided either: proxy for the Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, i in this Notice of Meeting: or he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to ii any related documents including the proxy form give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in this notice do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
Nominated Persons are reminded that they should contact the registered 100 Notice of Annual General Meeting port of tilbury The twentieth Annual General Meeting Tilbury is Londons major port providing of Forth Ports PLC will be held in fast, modern distribution services for the The Club Room, The Scotsman Hotel, benefit of the south east of England.
It is 20 North Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1TR the UKs leading paper handling port at 11.00am on Friday 6th May 2011. and has a strong position in containers, The formal Notice of Meeting begins bulk commodities and construction and on page 98. building materials.
Tilbury has a leading market position Financial Calendar in a variety of commodities and is the Year End distribution hub of choice for the Olympics.
31st December 2010 The port has a prominent role to play in the regeneration of Thurrock Thames Gateway Preliminary Announcement and in providing greener supply chains.
22nd March 2011 Dispatch of Annual Report 30th March 2011 Ex Dividend Date Final Dividend 13th April 2011 scottish ports Record Date Final Dividend Our ports in Scotland are optimally 15th April 2011 located for distribution into the industrial and consumer heartland of Scotland.
Annual General Meeting and We offer combined and environmentally Interim Management Statement friendly transport solutions with road, 6th May 2011 rail and sea, together with innovative, Payment of Final Dividend 2010 flexible supply chain solutions to 13th May 2011 Scotlands businesses.
forth Marine Announcement of Interim Results 2011 As the Statutory Harbour Authority for 24th August 2011 ports the Forth and the Tay we track vessels 24 Interim Report Dispatched hours a day and ensure that the highest 2nd September 2011 standards of safety set out in the Port plc Marine Safety Code are met.
Our marine Ex Dividend Date Interim Dividend services are flexible and responsive to Founded on port operations 12th October 2011 and capitalising on locations.
Record Date Interim Dividend 14th October 2011 Interim Management Statement 31st October 2011 Payment of Interim Dividend 2011 4th November 2011 nordic group Nordic manages and recycles waste for many large businesses.
Value is property added to these businesses at our Our property business is making a strategic port locations for processing significant contribution to the regeneration and handling waste as well as of Edinburghs Waterfront.
Our development reducing the need for landfill.
land at The Harbour will provide a retail, leisure and commercial heart for the waterfront and facilitate economic growth.
Ocean Terminal Ocean Terminal is an established shopping centre which provides an anchor for our regeneration plans, and an exciting and varied shopping and leisure experience for residents and visiting tourists.
Swords of Honour We are delighted and proud that both our Scottish Ports Operation and the Port of Tilbury received the Sword of Honour for their contribution to safe working by the British Safety Council.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Forth Ports PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 head offiCe With growth in our ports Forth Ports PLC, 1 Prince of Wales Dock, business and continued Leith, Edinburgh EH6 7DX progress in renewables and Telephone 0131 555 8700 Facsimile 0131 553 7462 property, we are delivering real www.
co. uk value to our shareholders.
Our 2010 report outlines the steps we are taking to deliver growth.
Charles Hammond Group Chief Executive contents Forth Ports at a glance A Clear Investment Proposition A Rich Asset Base 01 Understanding our Marketplace 02 Future Value Case Study: The Transition to a Low Carbon Economy in Scotland 04 How we Manage the Risks 06 A Value Based Business Model 08 Future Value Case Study: Expanding our Capacity in the Thames Estuary 08 Measuring our Performance 10 Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report 12 Business Review 15 Corporate Social Responsibility 21 Board of Directors 28 Directors Report 30 Corporate Governance Report 33 Report of the Audit Committee 37 Directors Remuneration Report 39 Report of the Nomination Committee 44 Independent Auditors Report 45 Primary Financial Statements 47 Principal Accounting Policies 54 Notes on the Accounts 62 Glossary 93 Appendix 94 Five Year Record 96 Information for Shareholders 97 forth Notice of Annual General Meeting 98 ports pLC
