GLossAry 1 The DTZ Valuation dated 31st December 2010 includes the term Market Value which is defined in the current version of The Appraisal and Valuation Manual issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors the Red Book as: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
2 The property development assets which DTZ have valued include the undernoted assets: The development sites called The Harbour, Leith Docks: Granton Harbour: and Western Harbour, all of which are in Leith: Development sites at Grangemouth, Burntisland and Methil: and The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre.
3 Property Valuation Approach used by DTZ The undernoted paragraphs are taken from the DTZ Valuation Report as at 31st December 2010.
As explained in our previous report, in the past, our opinion of Value has been based on the approach that purchasers of the assets would take a very long term view of the principal properties in the portfolio and reflect future value on a discounted basis, taking account of future sale revenues of the sites after allowing for the cost of providing the infrastructure together with associated costs.
Up until the early part of 2008, there had been a strong appetite from a wide variety of investors seeking an involvement in major mixed use development projects, with both debt and equity available from a wide range of sources.
The approach of the banking sector is still cautious about lending and volumes are still low.
Such lending as is taking place tends to be for undoubted existing borrowers and is largely secured on standing investments let for a reasonable period to good covenants and, even with this type of product, the amount that banks are prepared to lend is usually less than 60% of value.
These restrictions mean that investors are having to find a substantial amount of equity and this is limiting the numbers of active participants in the market.
In this economic environment we are of the view that the approach we adopted in valuing the Groups assets last year is still valid and that the market would place little or no value on the residential development potential of the properties.
In terms of the Groups major development projects, many of the sites are still not viable depending upon what infrastructure has already been put in place.
Our approach to the Valuation of the Groups major property development assets is summarised below: Granton Harbour As last year, we have applied a development value on a small section of the site at a discounted rate, but have otherwise continued to disregard the remainder of the land on the basis that it is still not viable to develop reclaim in the current market.
Where land is income producing from the letting of existing property, we have valued on a conventional basis.
Western Harbour The approach has been the same as for Granton Harbour.
We have allowed for the development of a small part of the site, but only included the land at a discounted rate, as viability is marginal.
The Harbour, Leith Docks This part of the proposed development has continued to be impacted by the downturn in the commercial markets, again making the viability of development marginal.
Since last year, master planning consent has been obtained for this area and this would have a positive impact on value.
An increased level of value has been applied to the residual land as it does occupy the key part of the main site and the overall entrance to the scheme.
Grangemouth As with other sites, development land has been substantially marked down to reflect viability and existing income valued in perpetuity.
Burntisland and Methil The overall value of the land assets has been held as the current planning scenario might, in the future, allow for a food retail development.
4 Definition The definition of the word underlying in the context of an adjustment to a reported number is as follows: i Underlying group port recycling property operating profit refers to the reported group port recycling property operating profit adjusted to exclude the effect of any revaluation of the investment properties and any exceptional items.
ii Underlying profit before tax, underlying profit after tax and underlying earnings per share refer to reported profit before tax, reported profit after tax and reported basic earnings per share adjusted as above in 4 1 together with an adjustment for any revaluation of joint ventures investment property.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93
