prIncIpAL AccountInG poLIcIes General Information when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable.
Forth Ports PLC is a company incorporated in Scotland under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of its IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1st July 2009 registered office is given on page 29.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are the this interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a provision of port, cargo handling, towage and related services and facilities.
The Group also has a recycling customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer business and extensive property interests.
to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a These consolidated accounts have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 22nd March 2011. supply of electricity, gas or water.
In some cases, the entity receives cash from a customer that must be used Basis of Preparation only to acquire or construct the item of property, plant and equipment in order to connect the customer to a The results have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRICS as adopted by the EU and with those parts network or provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services or to do both.
of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated accounts have IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties at Measurement effective 1st July 2009 this amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess fair value and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a profit or loss.
hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through the Income Statement category.
This assessment is to be The preparation of accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the use of estimates and made based on circumstances that existed on the later of the date the entity first became a party to the contract assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported and the date of any contract amendments that significantly change the cash flows of the contract.
If the amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on entity is unable to make this assessment, the hybrid instrument must remain classified as at fair value managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from through the Income Statement in its entirety.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign those estimates.
Operation effective 1st July 2009 this amendment states that, in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign Changes in Accounting Policy and Disclosures The annual financial statements for the year ended operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the Group, including the 31st December 2009 have been revised in accordance with IFRS 3 revised, as early adopted by the Group, foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness requirements of IAS in relation to the accounting for the Groups acquisition of the remaining 50% share capital of OTL on 17th 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied.
In particular, the Group should clearly document its December 2009.
These adjustments are in relation to a change in view of the recognition of historical losses within hedging strategy because of the possibility of different designations at different levels of the Group.
OTL, with a related deferred tax asset balance recognised at date of acquisition and recognition of a deferred tax IAS 38 amendment Intangible Assets effective 1st January 2010 the amendment clarifies guidance in asset balance in relation to the cash flow hedge creditor at acquisition see Note 39 for further information.
measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination and permits the grouping of The Group has also opted to show the interest component intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
of the pension scheme costs as an element of Finance Costs see Note 32 for further information.
IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial Statements the amendment clarifies that the potential The following standards and amendments to existing settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as 1st January 2010, but have no material impact on the Group results for the current period: non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash Assets to Owners assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could effective on or after 1st July 2009 the interpretation was published in November 2008.
This interpretation be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only 54 IAS 36 amendment Impairment of Assets effective Classification of Rights Issues amendment to IAS 32 1st January 2010 the amendment clarifies that the issued in October 2009 the amendment applies to largest cash-generating unit or group of units to which annual periods beginning on or after 1st February 2010. goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of Earlier application is permitted.
The amendment impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined addresses the accounting for rights issues that are by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8 Operating Segments that is, denominated in a currency other than the functional before the aggregation of segments with similar currency of the issuer.
Provided certain conditions are economic characteristics.
met, such rights issues are now classified as equity IFRS 2 amendments Group Cash-settled Shareregardless of the currency in which the exercise price based Payment Transactions effective from 1st is denominated.
Previously, these issues had to be January 2010 in addition to incorporating IFRIC 8 accounted for as derivative liabilities.
The amendment Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and applies retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Treasury Share Transactions, the amendments expand Accounting Policies, changes in Accounting Estimates on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the and Errors.
The Group will apply the amended classification of group arrangements that were not standard from 1st January 2011. covered by that interpretation.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity IFRS 5 amendment Non-current Assets Held for Sale Instruments effective 1st July 2010 the interpretation and Discontinued Operations the amendment clarifies the accounting by an entity when the terms of a clarifies that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for It also clarifies that the general requirements of IAS 1 equity swap.
It requires a gain or loss to be recognised still apply, in particular paragraph 15 to achieve a fair in the Income Statement, which is measured as the presentation and paragraph 125 sources of estimation difference between the carrying amount of the financial uncertainty of IAS 1. liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
If the fair value of the equity instruments issued The following new standards, amendments and new cannot be reliably measured, the equity instruments interpretations to standards and interpretations have been should be measured to reflect the fair value of the issued but are not effective for the financial year beginning financial liability extinguished.
The Group will apply 1st January 2010 and have not been early adopted: the interpretation from 1st January 2011, subject to endorsement by the EU.
It is not expected to have The Groups and parent entitys assessment of the impact any impact on the Group or the parent entitys of these new standards and interpretations is set out financial statements.
below: Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement amendments to IFRIC 14 the amendments correct IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in November an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14 IAS 19 2009 this standard is the first step in the process to The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Requirements and their Interaction.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum to affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
This was not intended when The standard is not applicable until 1st January 2013 IFRIC 14 was issued, and the amendments correct this.
but is available for early adoption.
However, the The amendments are effective for annual periods standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
Earlier application is Revised IAS 24 revised Related P arty Disclosures permitted.
The amendments should be applied issued in November 2009 it supersedes IAS 24 retrospectively to the earliest comparative period Related Party Disclosures issued in 2003.
The Group will apply these amendments revised is mandatory for periods beginning on or after for the financial reporting period commencing on 1st January 2011.
Earlier application, in whole or in part, 1st January 2011. is permitted.
The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party and removes Exceptional Items the requirement for Government-related entities to Exceptional items are those material items of income and disclose details of all transactions with the Government expenditure which the Group has disclosed separately and other government-related entities.
The Group will because of their quantum or incidence so as to give a apply the revised standard from 1st January 2011. clearer understanding of the Groups financial performance.
When the revised standard is applied, the Group and the parent will need to disclose any transactions The Group has also separately disclosed the effect between its subsidiaries and its associates.
The Group of revaluation of investment properties per IAS 40. is currently putting systems in place to capture the necessary information.
It is, therefore, not possible at this stage to disclose the impact, if any, of the revised standard on the related party disclosures.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 prIncIpAL AccountInG poLIcIes Continued Consolidation If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which 1 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries which are those entities including Special the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is Purpose Entities in which the Group has an interest of more than one half of the voting rights or otherwise has incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional power to govern the financial and operating policies are consolidated.
assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that The existence and effect of potential voting rights that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
are presently exercisable or presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls The measurement period is the period from the date another entity.
of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that exist Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer as of the acquisition date.
This period is subject to a maximum of one year.
consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value the purchase of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Intercompany transactions, balances and issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the Income unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated fully on consolidation: unrealised losses Statement as incurred.
are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisitiondate fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values 2 Associates are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability an interest in a joint venture.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration initially recognised at cost.
Under this method the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of associates classified as equity are not recognised.
is recognised in the Income Statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity are reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
Unrealised re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the loss, if any, is recognised in the Income Statement.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the associates: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the asset transferred.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of accumulated amortisation on Income Statement, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and the Group does not recognise further losses, unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 revised are recognised behalf of the associates.
at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: 3 Joint Ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The Groups interests in joint recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee benefits ventures are accounted for by the equity method of accounting.
The investment in the joint venture is initially respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to the recorded at cost and is adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Groups share of net replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS assets of the jointly controlled entity.
2 Share-based payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as The Group Income Statement includes the Groups share of the profit or loss of the joint venture.
The Group held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations recognises the portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture that is attributable are measured in accordance with that standard.
The Group does not recognise its share of profits or losses from the joint venture that result 56 from the purchase of assets by the Group from the joint recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
venture until it resells the assets to an independent party.
Revenue excludes value added tax and is shown on a However, if a loss on the transaction provides evidence of gross basis in relation to recoverable charges such as a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets or utilities, recoverable overtime and recoverable plant an impairment loss, the loss is recognised immediately.
When the Groups share of losses of a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, the Group Profits and losses arising on the sale of sites or completed does not recognise further losses unless the Group has developments are recognised when contracts for sale incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the have been exchanged and all material conditions have joint venture.
The Board will have due regard to all the circumstances of any individual transaction in determining Goodwill whether or not any conditions are material or have Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised, been satisfied.
at cost less accumulated impairment costs, as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Where sites or completed developments are sold to Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the joint ventures or associates, profits are only recognised consideration transferred, the amount of any nonin proportion to third parties interests in those entities.
controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of The remaining profits are recognised when the sites or the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the completed developments are sold by the joint ventures entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the or associates to unrelated parties.
identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Consideration is given to the collectability of any debt Goodwill on businesses acquired after 1st January 1999 outstanding arising from the sale of sites or property is shown as an intangible asset with an indefinite useful developments and provisions are made where necessary.
life and is subject to an annual impairment test at each The need for such provisions is reviewed on a regular basis.
cash generating unit and is also subject to a test whenever there is an indication of impairment.
Any such Property, Plant and Equipment goodwill impairment is not reversed.
Goodwill arising Operational land and buildings and plant and equipment on acquisitions prior to 1st January 1999 was written are stated at historical cost less depreciation.
Land and off immediately against reserves.
capital works in progress are not depreciated.
Cost is the original purchase price of the asset and the cost of Where there is an excess of the Groups interest in the bringing the asset to its current condition and includes net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets over transfers from equity of any gains losses on qualifying the purchase price negative goodwill, this amount is cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchase costs taken to the Income Statement in the year of acquisition.
Segmental Reporting All operational buildings and plant and equipment in the The Group has identified three primary business course of construction are recorded as capital work in segments that provide services that are subject to progress until such time as they are brought into use by risks and returns that are different from one another.
Capital work in progress includes all direct Information relating to Ports, Recycling and Property expenditure and may include capitalised interest in segments are shown.
All inter-segment transactions and accordance with the accounting policy on that subject.
balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group On completion, such assets are transferred to the considers that all revenues, costs, assets and liabilities appropriate asset category.
can be identified as relating to either Ports, Recycling or Property.
Port income includes rental and other income In circumstances where there is a change in use of from investment property located within or adjacent the operational land and buildings to investment property, the port estates.
fair value of the asset is established at a date when it has been decided to transfer the asset from operational land Revenue Recognition and buildings to investment property.
Revenue from Port activities represents the income earned from the provision of port facilities, which comprise cargo Depreciation is charged to write off the cost less any handling, towage, pilotage, conservancy services and port residual value of the asset on a straight line basis over related rental income.
Such revenue is recorded once the the estimated useful lives as follows: service has been provided.
Buildings and dock structures 15-50 years Revenue from Recycling represents income earned from Plant and equipment 3-35 years waste paper collection and baling and the management of other commercial waste.
Such revenue is recorded once Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than the service has been provided.
Revenue from paper sales its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down is shown on the basis of net commission and is recorded immediately to its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals of assets are included Revenue from Property includes rental income and sales in operating profit.
Both Property and port related rental income net of any incentives given to lessees is Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 prIncIpAL AccountInG poLIcIes Continued Repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Investment in Subsidiaries Statement during the financial period in which they are Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the permanent diminution in value by the Company.
carrying amount of the assets when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally Finance and Operating Leases assessed standard of performance of the existing asset Leases of assets where the Group has substantially will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as over the remaining life of the related asset.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower Investment Property of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value Investment property, principally comprising tenanted land of the minimum lease payments, and are depreciated and buildings within the port estates, is held for long-term over the lower of the useful lives and the term of the lease.
rental yields and is not occupied by the Group.
It also The interest element of the rental payments is charged includes the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre in Leith.
to the Income Statement over the period of the lease Investment property is treated as a long-term investment contract on the basis of the capital element outstanding.
and is carried at fair value determined annually or at The finance charges outstanding are included in interim balance sheet dates where there is a material short-term and long-term payables as appropriate.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the Income Statement in accordance with IAS 40 and Leases where a significant portion of the risks and are included in other income or taken directly to reserves rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are as appropriate.
The cost of operating leases is charged to the Income Statement on a straightIntangible Assets line basis over the life of the lease.
Excluding goodwill, intangible assets refer principally to computer software and customer relationships and are Lease Incentives carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Any lease incentive paid or payable for the agreement of a new or existing operating lease is allocated over the Costs associated with developing or maintaining term of the lease regardless of its form or cash flow effect.
computer software programmes are recognised as an Such incentives are recognised over the lease term, expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated unless another systematic basis is appropriate, in order with identifiable and unique software products controlled to ensure the Income Statement reflects the true effective by the Group and which will probably generate economic rental charge irrespective of the particular cash flow benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised arrangements agreed.
Direct costs include staff costs of those involved in the software development.
Grants relating to the Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment Expenditure which enhances or extends the performance Capital grants are recognised at their fair value where of identifiable computer software products beyond their there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be original specifications is recognised as a capital received and the Group will comply with all conditions improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Grants receivable are amortised over the life of the asset.
The amount amortised in each Computer software development costs recognised as period is set against the depreciation charge of the asset assets are amortised using the straight-line method over to which it relates.
their useful lives, not exceeding a period of 10 years.
Provisions If a business is acquired which has long-term customer Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present relationships, those relationships are valued and an legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events intangible asset set up to reflect that value.
They are where it is probable that an outflow of resources will be written off on a straight-line basis over a period of up required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate to fifteen years.
Impairment of Assets The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts Property, plant and equipment and other non-current when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed whenever events are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying obligations under the contract.
amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount Restructuring provisions are recognised in the period of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the in which the Group has a present legal or constructive higher of an assets net selling price and its value in use.
Costs relating to the ongoing For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are activities of the Group are not provided in advance.
grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
58 Dividends Cash and Cash Equivalents Dividends are recorded in the Groups accounts in the Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Balance period in which they are approved by the shareholders Sheet at cost.
For the purposes of the Cash Flow or when paid in the case of interim dividends.
Inter-group Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on dividends are recorded in the period in which they are hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term approved and paid by the subsidiary companys Board.
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are Inventories included within borrowings in current liabilities on the Property work in progress relates to expenditure on Balance Sheet.
property development projects, land held for development and project work in progress and is included at cost less Share Capital amounts written off which are deemed to be irrecoverable.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental Cost includes all direct expenditure and associated external costs directly attributable to the issue of new indirect costs and related costs of finance where appropriate.
shares, other than in connection with business On completion, such assets are transferred to investment combinations, are shown in equity as a deduction, properties or sold to third parties.
net of tax, from the proceeds.
Expenditure which is directly attributable to the cost of Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchases the obtaining planning consents for energy projects is Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid included in work in progress where, in the opinion of the including any attributable incremental external costs net of Directors, the related project is likely to be successful and income taxes is deducted from total shareholders equity as own shares held.
Where such shares are subsequently the benefits arising from the sale of the consent or from future operations will at least equal the amount capitalised sold, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
Costs associated with reaching the consented stage include planning application costs, wind surveys, Borrowings environmental impact studies and salary costs.
If planning consent for the project is refused the related costs are Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
written off as an expense to the Income Statement.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method: any difference between Trade Receivables and Accrued Property Income Trade receivables and accrued property income are proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the carried at original invoice amount less an allowance made for impairment of these receivables.
An allowance period of the borrowings.
for impairment of trade receivables and accrued property income is established when there is objective evidence Accounting for Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The period and takes into account deferred taxation.
amount of the allowance is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest for similar borrowers.
The carrying bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the accounts.
Current tax rates in the relevant amount of the asset is reduced through the use of this impairment allowance and the amount of the loss is jurisdiction are used in the determination of deferred income tax.
recognised in the Income Statement.
In future periods the unwinding of the discount is recognised within Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is finance income.
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences The Groups policy is to capitalise interest and other borrowing costs directly incurred with respect to the arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal acquisition or development of qualifying assets.
Such costs are capitalised and included in the carrying value of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse of the assets.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when: in the foreseeable future.
expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are Employee Benefits Pension contributions are charged principally at a rate incurred: and activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended calculated by the Actuary to provide, over the expected remaining service lives of current employees, for all use or sale are in progress.
retirement benefits related to projected final salaries and wages.
If active development is interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use or sale.
A weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 prIncIpAL AccountInG poLIcIes Continued The liability in respect of defined benefit pension plans Where appropriate, the Group hedges the foreign is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at currency exposure of its contract commitments to the Balance Sheet date minus the fair value of plan assets, purchase certain assets mainly from Europe.
The forward together with adjustments for past service cost.
The contracts used in its programme mature in twelve months defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent or less, consistent with the related purchase commitments.
actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is Interest Rate Risk determined by the estimated future cash outflows The Group borrows at variable rates and may use interest using market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
rate swaps as cash flow hedges of future interest payments, which have the economic effect of converting borrowings Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full as they from floating rates to fixed rates.
Under the interest rate arise in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals mainly quarterly, the difference Share Based Payment between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest The Group awards shares in Forth Ports PLC to all eligible amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional Executive Directors and Senior Managers under the LTIPs principal amounts.
which were approved at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in May 2006.
The shares are granted to Credit Risk the employee at nil cost.
In addition, all eligible employees The Groups policy is to ensure that property sales are were offered the opportunity to take part in an approved covered by either controlled release of land plots in Save As You Earn SAYE scheme which started in exchange for cash, fixed charge securities or bank bonds.
2004 as approved at the Annual General Meeting of the The Group also checks that Port customers have an Company in May 2004.
The option price was granted appropriate credit history when likely future revenue to employees at a discount to the market price of the exceeds limits agreed by the Board.
Derivative countershares at the date of issue.
parties and cash transactions are limited to quality financial institutions with a long-term Standard & Poors In both cases, the Group makes a charge to the Income credit index rating of at least A.
Statement over the option period that recognises the fair value of the share options at the date of their grant, having Liquidity Risk regard as appropriate to such factors as the weighted Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining average share price, exercise price where applicable, sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability expected dividends, the risk-free interest rate and the of funding through an adequate amount of committed expected rates of early exercise.
credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying When the options are exercised, the Company issues businesses, Group Treasury aims at maintaining flexibility new shares.
The proceeds received, net of any directly in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to Financial Risk Management safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going Financial Risk Factors concern in order to provide returns for shareholders The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Group has the risks, including the effects of changes in debt prices, authority to return capital to shareholders.
It may issue foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is performance of the Group.
The Group may use derivative calculated as net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts is calculated as total borrowings including current and and interest rate swaps to hedge certain exposures.
non-current borrowings as shown in the consolidated Balance Sheet less cash and cash equivalents.
Total Risk management is carried out by a central treasury capital is calculated as equity as shown in the function Group Treasury, operating under policies consolidated Balance Sheet.
approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in Compliance with banking covenants is discussed in the close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
Foreign Exchange Risk The Group has relatively little exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Where appropriate, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted by Group Treasury, to hedge their exposure to foreign currency risk in connection with the measurement currency.
60 Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments In assessing the fair value of non-traded derivatives and other financial instruments, the Group uses a variety of and Hedging Activities Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each Balance Sheet date.
in the Balance Sheet at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the specific or similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of a techniques, such as option pricing models and estimated discounted value of future cash flows, are used to recognised asset or liability fair value hedge or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of a firm commitment cash determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The face value less any estimated credit adjustments for financial assets and liabilities with a maturity of less than Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that are highly one year are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes effective, are recorded in the Income Statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
During the period the Group did not hold any fair value hedges.
Group for similar financial instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated Key Assumptions and Estimates The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning and qualify as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in equity.
Where the forecasted the future.
The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The Board has transaction or firm commitment results in the recognition of an asset for example, property, plant and equipment considered the critical accounting estimates and assumptions used in the Accounts and concluded that the or of a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the main area of significant risk which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred within the next financial year is in respect of the assumptions used to calculate pension benefits.
The to the Income Statement and classified as revenue or expense in the same periods during which the hedged assumptions include gilt yield at the year end, investment return including a risk margin over gilt yield, price and firm commitments or forecasted transaction affects the Income Statement for example, when the forecasted salary inflation and mortality assumptions.
For example, a 0.25% change in the discount rate assumed could affect sale takes place.
the shortfall position within the Scheme positively or negatively by over 10.5m and a one year increase in life When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting expectancy would increase the liabilities by nearly 7.0m.
Full details of the assumptions used to calculate the under IAS 39, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised pension assets and liabilities may be found in Note 32. when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately is recognised in the Income Statement.
When a committed For information on key assumptions and estimates used in the property valuation please refer to Note 14. or forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is Impairment assumptions relating to Goodwill are as noted immediately transferred to the Income Statement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or forecast transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows or hedged items.
Fair Value Estimation of Financial Instruments The fair value of publicly traded derivatives and trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the Balance Sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61
