AppendIx PROPOSED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 2011 the 2011 LTIP RESOLUTION 13 Introduction The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of the Companys executive remuneration strategy in light of both its future business plans and continuing developments in UK remuneration practice.
This review process has been supported by independent external advice provided by Towers Watson.
The 2011 LTIP will apply to the Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary, the Director Scottish Ports and the Managing Director of the Property Division of the Company in the first instance, although the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to extend participation to a small number of selected high performing, high potential employees.
Performance will be measured over a three year period using two key performance metrics: growth over the vesting period in underlying port operating profit and share value both as further set out below.
In general, other than in relation to participation and the performance criteria the 2011 LTIP is modelled on the 2006 LTIP and has been updated in line with best practice guidelines.
If the 2011 LTIP is approved by shareholders no further awards will be made under the 2006 LTIP.
Supervision The Remuneration Committee will supervise the operation of the 2011 LTIP.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee will determine the level of award for the Executive Directors.
Eligibility Executive Directors and employees of the Company are eligible to participate in the 2011 LTIP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Unless the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate a participant must not be within one year of his retirement age at the time the award is granted.
Grant of Awards Awards will be granted by the Remuneration Committee as an option to acquire at nil cost ordinary shares in the Company, subject to performance criteria being met over the specified performance period.
Awards granted under the 2011 LTIP are not transferable and may only vest in the persons to whom they were granted.
No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Benefits under the 2011 LTIP are not pensionable.
Awards may only be made during the period of 42 days following approval of the 2011 LTIP by the shareholders or the announcement of the Companys interim or final financial results for any period, unless the Remuneration Committee considers that there are exceptional circumstances which justify the making of awards at any other time and the Company is not otherwise prohibited from making an award.
Exercise and lapse of awards An award will normally vest after the end of the relevant performance period if and to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied over that period.
Performance periods will generally be three successive financial years.
Awards will lapse to the extent not vested after expiry of the performance period.
An award will lapse if the participant ceases to be employed by the Company prior to the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion, in exceptional circumstances only, to decide that upon cessation of employment an award will not lapse but remain in place and or vest early on a proportionate basis by reference to time elapsed and performance to date.
In the event of a change of control of the shareholding of the Company, a winding up, or on the occurrence of exceptional circumstances in relation to the Group or a Participant which the Remuneration Committee considers makes it appropriate for vesting any award shares, awards will vest on a proportionate basis by reference to time elapsed and performance to date.
If there is a capitalisation issue, rights issue, consolidation, sub-division or other variation in the share capital of the Company the number of shares subject to awards will be adjusted in such manner as the auditors of the Company confirm to be reasonable.
Performance Criteria All awards will be subject to demanding performance criteria approved by the Remuneration Committee.
If the 2011 LTIP is approved by shareholders, the performance criteria attaching to awards made this year will relate to growth in underlying ports profit Ports Profit Test and growth in share value Share Value Test.
50% of the award will relate to each metric.
The Ports Profit Test will measure the growth in underlying profits before interest and tax in respect of the Groups port operations including Nordic over the performance period as extracted from the segmental analysis contained in the Companys annual report and accounts adjusted to exclude any profit or loss relating to the Companys investment properties.
A threshold level of performance and stretch target will be set by the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis having regard to internal company projections and budget, analyst 94 expectations and the recent historical performance of the Company and its competitors.
Stretch performance will be set at a level that represents genuinely superior performance significantly in excess of the challenging level of performance required to meet the threshold level.
No award shares subject to this test will vest if the threshold level of performance is not achieved at the end of the performance period.
If the threshold level is achieved 25% of the award shares will vest.
The maximum number of award shares will vest if the stretch target is achieved at the end of the performance period.
Award shares will vest on a straight line basis for performance between the threshold level and the stretch target.
For awards granted in 2011 the average annual growth rate required over the performance period for vesting to commence will be 2% above CPI and the stretch target will be 7% above CPI.
The Share Value Test will measure growth in the price of the Companys shares over the performance period.
The threshold level of performance will be a share value of 15 at the end of the performance period and the stretch target will be a share value of 17.
No shares will vest if the threshold level is not met and the maximum number of shares will vest if the stretch target is met.
Shares will vest on a straight line between 0% and 100%.
The average middle market price of a Forth Ports share over the three month period to the end of the performance period will be used to determine the share value.
Irrespective of whether targets have been met in respect of the Ports Profit Test and or the Share Value Test, no vesting shall occur unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the financial performance of the Company has shown a sustained improvement since the start of the performance period.
In determining whether the Company has shown a sustained improvement in financial performance, the Committee will, in addition to the two primary metrics noted above, consider the total return delivered to shareholders and the economic value added.
These measures will be considered in light of historical experience and the performance of relevant peer companies and the performance of relevant indices.
Performance conditions applying to new awards will be reviewed each year to ensure that they remain robust, challenging and clearly linked to the creation of shareholder value.
Individual limit Under the 2011 LTIP no award will exceed the number of shares represented by the participants basic annual salary at the award date divided by the market value of a Forth Ports share.
Administration All shares allocated under the 2011 LTIP will rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares of the Company for the time being in issue save as regards any rights arising by reference to a record date arising prior to the date of issue.
On any variation of the ordinary share capital of the Company the number of the shares subject to awards shall be adjusted in such a manner as the Remuneration Committee determines to be fair and reasonable.
The 2011 LTIP will be administered by the Remuneration Committee.
Amendments to the rules may be made at its discretion, however no amendment may be made to the advantage of participants or employees to rules relating to eligibility for participation of the 2011 LTIP, the limitations on the number of shares subject to the awards under 2011 LTIP, the maximum entitlement for any participant or the basis for determining entitlement to and adjustments of awards in the event of a capitalisation issue, rights issue or open offer, subdivision or consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital without prior shareholders approval.
However, minor amendments may be made to benefit the administration of the 2011 LTIP or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for the Company or participants in the 2011 LTIP.
Source of Shares An award may be satisfied either by the transfer to the participant of existing shares in the Company purchased on the market or by the issue of new shares.
The 2011 LTIP permits the Company to use the Forth Ports PLC Employee Trust for the purpose of holding the shares pending the transfer to participants.
However, where awards are satisfied through the issue of new shares to the Trustee for the purpose of satisfying awards under the 2011 LTIP, the use of new shares will be subject to limiting the percentage of the Companys issued share capital utilised for the purposes of the 2011 LTIP or in respect of the granting of share options in any ten year period to 10 per cent.
Within this overall limit of 10 per cent, new shares issued in respect of the granting of share options other than savings-related share options will be limited to 5 per cent.
Cost The expected accounting cost of the 2011 LTIP will be approximately 0.6m per annum.
Based on the current share price, the number of new shares required for the senior management population is approximately 106,000 shares per cycle.
If new shares were used to satisfy awards, this would represent an annual dilution of approximately 0.2%.
Copy Documentation A copy of the Rules of the Forth Ports PLC Long-Term Incentive Plan 2011 are available for inspection at the offices of McGrigors at 5 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7BA and the offices of the Company at 1 Prince of Wales Dock, Leith, Edinburgh EH6 7DX during normal business hours on any week day excluding Saturdays and public holidays until the close of the Annual General Meeting and in addition shall be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95
