187 GLOSSARY Adit Entrance to an underground mine which is horizontal or nearly horizontal by which the mine can be accessed, drained of water and ventilated AGM or Annual General Meeting The annual general meeting of the Company which is scheduled to be held on Wednesday 17 May 2011 at noon at the offices of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ Annual Report The annual report of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 and comprising the Chairmans Letter, Chief Executives Statement, Business Review, Directors Report, Financial Statements and accompanying notes Articles of Association The articles of association of the Company which took effect on 28 May 2010 Audit Committee The audit committee of the Board Beneficiation plant Facility where extracted ore is reduced to particles that can be separated into mineral that is suitable for further processing or direct use Board The board of directors of the Company CAMIMEX Cmara Minera fide Mxico, the Mexican Mining Chamber Cancun Communiqu Document signed by nearly 1,000 businesses setting out a case for action on climate change Capex Capital expenditures: expenditures not classified as operating costs Carbon Disclosure Project Independent not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world CFE Comisin Federal fide Electricidad, the Mexican state-owned electric utility CO 2 Carbon dioxide Code of Conduct The set of principles for ethical behaviour to which all employees of the Company are obliged to adhere Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council dated June 2008 as amended Company [see also Fresnillo plc] Fresnillo plc, a company incorporated under the UK Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 Concentrate A metal-rich product resulting from a mineral enrichment process such as gravity concentration or flotation, in which most of the desired mineral has been separated from the waste material in the ore Consolidated Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 Diamond drilling A drilling method where the rock is cut with a diamond bit attached to hollow rods: it cuts a core of rock, recovered in cylindrical sections for geological analysis Dilution Waste, which is unavoidably mined with ore Directors The directors of the Company Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 188 GLOSSARY continued Disseminated deposit or ore body A disseminated deposit is that in which the metal is evenly distributed in generally low concentrations throughout large masses of rock.
Dor An impure alloy of gold and silver, generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be refined into high purity metal EBITDA Gross profit plus depreciation included within cost of sales, less administrative expenses and exploration expenses Ejido s In Mexico, the communal farmland of a village, usually assigned in small parcels to villagers to be farmed under a federally supported system of communal land tenure EPS The amount of attributable profit available to equity shareholders, as calculated by dividing attributable profit for the period by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period ETF Exchange Traded Funds, investment funds that are traded on a stock exchange Executive Committee The executive committee of the Board Executive Directors The executive Directors of the Company Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. A wholly-owned Fresnillo plc company that controls a number of exploration prospects Financial Statements The consolidated and parent company financial statements of the Company and accompanying notes for the year ended 31 December 2010 Flotation A recovery process by which valuable minerals are separated from waste to produce a concentrate: selected minerals are induced to become attached to air bubbles and float Fresnillo Group [see also Group] Fresnillo plc and its subsidiary undertakings Fresnillo plc [see also Company] A company incorporated under the UK Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 FSA The Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom FTSE 100, 250 or 350 Share indices compiled by FTSE International Limited and comprising the top 100, 250 or 350 companies by full market value g t Grammes per tonne GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAS Generally Accepted Auditing Standards GHG Greenhouse gases GJ Gigajoules Government Unless otherwise specified the government of the Republic of Mexico Grade The measure of concentration of metal within mineralised rock 189 Gravimetric concentrator A fluidised centrifuge that separates heavy material such as gold from lighter background material: applied to materials in which the heavy component to be recovered is a very small fraction of the total material, generally less than 500 grammes tonne or 0.05% by weight GRI The Global Reporting Initiative, a network-based organisation that pioneered the worlds most widely used sustainability reporting framework Group [see also Fresnillo Group] Fresnillo plc and its subsidiary undertakings Haulage A horizontal underground excavation which is used to transport mined ore Hectare A unit of area equal to 10,000 square metres, or 2.47 acres Hoist Equipment used in underground mining to raise and lower conveyances within the mine shaft HSECR The Fresnillo Group Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations System Sistema fide Salud, Seguridad, Medio Ambiente y Relaciones con la Comunidad, headed by the HSECR Committee of the Board HSECR Committee Health, safety, environment and community relations committee of the Board IAS International Accounting Standards ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals, founded in 2001 to advocate performance improvement in the mining and metals industry IETU Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica, a business tax in Mexico IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Independent Non-executive Directors The Non-executive Directors of the Company who are independent of Peoles as defined by the Relationship Agreement and by reference to Provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Code INIFAP Instituto Nacional fide Investigaciones Forestales, Agrcolas y Pecuarias, a national R&D institute for forestry, agriculture and livestock International Cyanide Management Code Voluntary industry and audit-based programme for the gold mining industry to promote responsible management of cyanide used in gold mining IPO [also Listing] Initial Public Offering: the admission of the Companys Ordinary Shares both to the UKLA Official List and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 14 May 2008 ISO 14001 An international environmental management system standard published by the International Organisation for Standardisation ITAM Instituto Tecnolgico Autnomo fide Mxico, a private research university in Mexico City JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee JV Joint venture koz Thousand troy ounces Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 190 GLOSSARY continued KPI Key Performance Indicator Leaching The process by which soluble constituents are dissolved and carried down through the soil by a percolating fluid Listing [also IPO] The admission of the Companys Ordinary Shares both to the UKLA Official List and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 14 May 2008 Listing Rules Rules relating to the admission to the Official List maintained by the UKLA in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 3 m Cubic metres Met-Mex Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. the operator of a refining and smelting facility in Torron a 100% subsidiary of Peoles Met-Mex Arrangements A series of contracts between the Company and Met-Mex for the sale of the primary products from the Groups mines, silverand gold-rich lead and zinc concentrates Milling or milled ore A general term used to describe the process in which the ore is crushed and ground and subjected to physical or chemical treatment to extract the valuable metals to a concentrate or finished product Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. A joint venture company with MAG Silver Corporation in which Fresnillo plc has a 56% interest Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. A joint venture company with Newmont USA Limited in which Fresnillo plc has a 56% interest Mineralisation Any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur mt Million tonnes MXN Mexican peso New Services Agreement [also NSA] New Services Agreement dated 28 October 2009 between Fresnillo and SAPSA for the provision of administrative and nonadministrative services to the Fresnillo Group NGO Non-governmental organisation Nominations Committee The nominations committee of the Board Non-executive Directors The Non-executive Directors of the Company OHSAS 18001 An international occupational health and safety management system specification created by a number of leading national standards bodies, certification bodies, and specialist consultancies Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in the Company Ore Material that contains one or more minerals, at least one of which can be mined and treated profitably under economic conditions deemed to be reasonable Ore body A continuous well-defined mass of material of sufficient mineral content to make extraction economically feasible Ore grade The classification or value of ore 191 Ounce Troy ounce oz Troy ounce Payable Silver The amount of silver in ounces contained in concentrates from Peoles Sabinas mine Peoles Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles Group Peoles and its subsidiary undertakings Porphyry A variety of igneous rock consisting of crystals embedded in a finer groundmass of minerals Pre-feasibility study A preliminary study undertaken to determine if it would be worthwhile to proceed to the feasibility study stage, which defines the technical and economic viability of a project to support the search for project financing Pre-IPO Reorganisation A reorganisation conducted by Peoles in preparation for the Global Offer which completed on 18 April 2008, whereby the companies comprising the precious metals mining business of Peoles were reorganised under the Company Premium Listing That category of Listing Rules applying conditions for Listing over and above those required under European law Primary silver producer A company generating over 50% of its revenue from silver production PROFEPA Procuradura Federal fide Proteccin al Ambiente, the Mexican Federal Environmental Protection Agency Prospect A mineral deposit with insufficient data available on the mineralisation to determine if it is economically recoverable, but warranting further investigation Relationship Agreement The relationship agreement between Peoles and the Company dated 8 May 2008, the purpose of which is to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on business independently of the Peoles Group Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee of the Board Reserves The economically mineable portions of mineral resources, which are sub-divided into two categories of increasing confidence: probable reserves relate to indicated mineral resources: and proven reserves relate to measured mineral resources Resources A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction: mineral resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories SAPSA Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. Scoping study A preliminary assessment based on measured, indicated, or inferred mineral resources, or a combination of any of these: includes disclosure of forecasted mine production rates that may contain capital costs required to develop and sustain the mining operation, as well as operating costs and projected cash flows SEDESOL Secretara fide Desarrollo Social, Secretariat of Social Development SEMARNAT Secretara fide Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, Secretariat of the Environment and Natural Resources Shaft An opening cut downwards from the surface for transporting personnel, equipment, supplies, ore and waste Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 192 GLOSSARY continued Shotcrete Concrete or mortar conveyed through a hose and pneumatically projected at high velocity onto any type or shape of surface, including vertical or overhead areas: shotcrete undergoes placement and compaction at the same time due to the force with which it is projected from the nozzle Silverstream Contract A series of the 12 agreements between Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. and Peoles pursuant to which the Fresnillo Group has the right to receive all proceeds for the Payable Silver Six Sigma A statistics-driven approach to quality control developed originally by Motorola: the methodology aims to improve operational performance, practices and systems by eliminating variability and waste and reducing defects in manufacturing processes to 3.4 defects per million Smelting A high temperature pyrometallurgical operation conducted in a furnace, in which the valuable metal is collected to a molten matte or dor phase and separated from the gangue components that accumulate in a less dense molten slag phase Sterling Deferred Shares Deferred shares of 1.00 each in the share capital of the Company Stope Underground void created by mining STPS Secretara del Trabajo y Previsin Social, Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare Strike Direction of line formed by the intersection of strata surfaces with the horizontal plane, always perpendicular to the dip direction Tailings dam A dammed reservoir to which the slurry is transported, where the solids settle and the supernatant liquid may be withdrawn The Wild Foundation International organisation dedicated to wilderness protection and wilderness conservation around the world Tonne [or t] Metric tonne 1,000 kilograms tpd Tonnes per day tpy Tonnes per year Treatment charges Fees payable by mines to smelters for processing concentrates Turnbull Guidance Guidance administered by the UK Financial Reporting Council setting out best practice on internal control for UK listed companies to assist them in applying section C. 2 of the UK Combined Code UK United Kingdom pounds sterling UKLA The United Kingdom Listing Authority: that section of the FSA acting in its capacity as the competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 Official Listing UNAM Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Mxico, a public university in Mexico City United Nations Global Compact A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption US$ United States dollar fresnillo plc at a glance sHareHolDer information operating mines strategy oUr BUsiness moDel for further information, please visit our website: financial calenDar See pages 34-47 See pages 12-17 See pages 10-11 www.
com or contact: Preliminary Statement: 1 March 2011 Operations are supported by extensive investFirst Interim Management Statement: 13 April 2011 Fresnillo plc ment in technology that enhances productivity Annual General Meeting: 17 May 2011 Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 Interim Statement: 2 August 2011 and efficiency.
When coupled with high-quality ir@fresnilloplc.
com The Fresnillo Group seeks to create value for stakeholders across precious metals cycles Second Interim Management Statement: 12 October 2011 Arturo Espinola, Head of Investor Relations assets selectively added in the exploration and through ongoing investment in exploration and mine development, operational excellence, development phase, we remain competitively poDiviDenD payment scHeDUle and a strong commitment to disciplined and sustainable growth.
The four components of our forWarD looKing statements sitioned in cash cost performance.
2010 Final Dividend Record Date: 3 May 2011 This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed strategy are: 2010 Final Dividend Payment Date: 20 May 2011 to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking 1. fresnillo 2011 Interim Dividend Record Date: 19 August 2011 statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking ter- 2011 Interim Dividend Payment Date: 13 September 2011 Underground silver mine, worlds largest priminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, mary silver mine, in operation since 1554 projects, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, or Registrar Joint Corporate Broker 2. cinega should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or Computershare Investor Services PLC JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Underground gold mine, in operation since 1992 comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, obP.
Box 82 20 Moorgate 1 Maximise the potential of existing operations 3.
Herradura The Pavilions London EC2R 6DA jectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These  Road United Kingdom Open pit gold mine, in operation since 1997 ing statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
Bristol BS99 7NH They appear in a number of places throughout this document 4.
Soledad-Dipolos United Kingdom Merrill Lynch International and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Open pit gold mine, in operation since 2010 2 King Edward Street Groups intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, Registered office London EC1A 1HQ among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial 28 Grosvenor Street United Kingdom Development projects position, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the silver London W1K 4QR See pages 48-49 2 Deliver growth through development projects and gold industries.
By their nature, forward-looking statements United Kingdom Auditor Projects must meet stringent criteria regarding the involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events Ernst & Young LLP volume of silver gold contained and embedded and circumstances.
Corporate headquarters 1 More London Place cost.
Because of our focus on district consolidation, Moliere No.
222 London SE1 2AF Col. Polanco United Kingdom Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future perforwe evaluate potential growth in geographic regions 11540 Mexico, D. F. mance and the actual results of the Groups operations, financial that may create synergies for new future mines.
Mexico Solicitor position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and 3 Extend the growth pipeline Linklaters LLP the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially 5.
Saucito Sponsor One Silk Street from those described in, or suggested by, the forward-looking Underground silver mine, 361.5 million ounces JPMorgan Cazenove Limited London EC2Y 8HQ statements contained in this document.
In addition, even if the of silver resources 20 Moorgate United Kingdom results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the fideLondon EC2R 6DA Start-up expected in 1H 2011 velopment of the markets and the industry in which the Group United Kingdom 6. noche Buena operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements Open pit gold mine, 481,000 ounces of gold 4 Reinforce the sustainability of the Group contained in this document, those results or developments may Warning to sHareHolDers - Boiler room scams reserves not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periOver the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicConstruction begins in 2011 ods.
A number of factors could cause results and developments ited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the for- 4 11 or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
ward-looking statements including, without limitation, general exploration prospects These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial 3 economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, 6 See pages 50-55 Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000. commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations Exploration is the key driver of growth for the including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates, the 10 It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been Group.
Our portfolio includes projects that extend 8 Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicacross the multiple stages of exploration detecincluding its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its ited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any 2 tion, discovery and definition, resulting in a strong unsolicited investment advice: mineral potential into resources or reserves, changes in its busi- 9 ness strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
12 Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation 1 5 7 Advanced exploration prospects: Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materiCheck that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting 7.
Juanicipio ally from actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this www.
uk register document speak only as of the date of this document, reflect 8.
San Julin Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting the Groups current view with respect to future events and are 9.
uk subject to risks relating to future events and other risks, uncer- 10.
Orisyvo tainties and assumptions relating to the Groups operations, 11. centauro Deep If the calls persist, hang up.
results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Investors 12. las casas 2010 aDJuSteD RevenueS By mIne 2010 aDJuSteD RevenueS By metal should specifically consider the factors identified in this docuIf you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the ment which could cause actual results to differ before making Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online Target definition exploration prospects: fReSnIllO 53% SIlveR 51% form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
Subject to the requirements of the ProSan Juan, San Nicols del Oro, Otzumatln, Jaralillo, HeRRaDuRa 25% GOlD 44% spectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the mexico Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Tajitos, Cairo, Manzanillas, Lucerito, Leones, Guanajuato, cIneGa 13% zInc 3% Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any Company mailings.
Tocayos obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any reSOleDaD-DIpOlOS 9% leaD 2% visions to any forward-looking statements in this document that More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to www.
uk reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Design & Photography: 33 visual Printing: earthcolor, Houston a SteRlInG peRfORmance fresnillo plc 2010 annual Report Exceptional performance in 2010 affirms our leadership position in a primary silver and growing profile in gold.
sterling Who we are Inside this Report performance Fresnillo plc is the worlds leading primary silver GROup OveRvIeW fresnillo plc at a glance f producer and Mexicos second largest gold producer.
2010 Highlights 1 Headquartered in Mexico City, our shares trade on the chairmans statement 2 London and Mexican Stock Exchanges.
StRateGy market review 6 What we do Business model 10 Our business spans the full mining value chain: strategy and Kpis 12 exploration, development and mining operations.
We strategic resources 20 fresnillo plc risk management framework 22 focus on high potential silver and gold projects that principal risks and Uncertainties 23 can be developed into low-cost, world-class mines.
28 grosvenor street We currently operate four mines, have two advanced london W1K 4Qr peRfORmance United Kingdom development projects and an extensive portfolio of chief executives report 28 review of operations 32 high-quality exploration projects and prospects, along www.
com sustainable Development report 56 with the largest precious metals land reserve in Mexico.
financial review 70 How we operate GOveRnance Board of Directors 84 Our license to operate is dependent upon executive management 87 the safety and health of our employees, good corporate governance report 88 environmental stewardship, the well-being of the Directors remuneration report 100 Directors report 106 communities where we operate, and adherence to statement of Directors responsibilities 111 best governance practices.
Therefore responsible and sustainable business practices are core to the fInancIal StatementS business strategy of the Group and integrated into independent auditors report 113 consolidated financial statements 114 every aspect of our operations.
notes to the consolidated accounts 119 parent company financial statements 160 Our goal notes to the parent company accounts 164 We seek to create value for our stakeholders across operating statistics 182 precious metals cycles.
Our goal is to produce 65 reserves and resources 184 million ounces of silver per year and over 400,000 Un global compact index 186 ounces of gold per year by 2018. glossary 187 The Directors Report of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 is set out on pages 106 to 110 in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and includes the Business Review.
The Directors Report also incorporates the Management Report required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward looking statements.
The extent to which the Companys shareholders or anyone may rely on these forward looking statements is set out inside the back cover of this fresnillo plc 2010 annUal report Annual Report.
