GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 119 Fresnillo plc NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed below the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 77 percent of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010, were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 28 February 2011.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
The Group has four fully developed operating mines: Fresnillo, Herradura, Cinega, and Soledad-Dipolos, the latter starting production in January 2010.
The principal activities of the entities included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: COUNTRY Of EQUITY COMPANY PRINCIPAL ACTIvITY INCORPORATION INTEREST % Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead silver and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Production of dor bars gold silver Mexico 56 56 Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates and silver precipitates Mexico 100 100 Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. Mining project Mexico 100 100 Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. Mining project Mexico 56 56 Comercializadora fide Metales Holds rights over silver production from Peoles Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. polymetallic Sabinas mine Mexico 100 100 Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration services Mexico 100 100 Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mining equipment leasing Mexico 56 56 Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. Closed mines Mexico 100 100 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A fide C. V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK 100 100 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining Investments Canada 100 100 Fresnillo Per, S. A. C. Exploration services Peru 100 100 Certain of the mines of Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A fide C. V. are currently operated on a small scale by a third party under a leasing agreement.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial instruments and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group now uses a columnar approach to separately present the Silverstream revaluation effect, including related tax, in the income statement as in the Directors judgment this needs to be disclosed separately in this manner by virtue of its size and volatility, in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 120 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the entities that constitute the Group have been prepared for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
These interests primarily represent the interests in Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. and Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. not held by the Group.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition by-acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
b Changes in accounting policies and presentation rules The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 except for the adoption of certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, issued in January 2008.
IFRS 3R introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 that will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results.
IAS 27R requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by partially-owned subsidiaries as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
Other consequential amendments were made to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, IAS 12 Income Taxes, IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, IAS 28 Investment in Associates and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
The changes introduced by IFRS 3R and IAS 27R will affect future acquisitions or loss of control and transactions with Non-controlling interests previously referred to as minority interests.
Other new standards, amendments and interpretations that are effective but not applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 1 Amendment First-time adoption of international financial reporting Standards-Cost of an Investment in a Subdisidiary, Jointly controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based Payment-Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IAS 39 Amendment Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement-Eligible hedged items IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners Improvements to IFRSs In April 2009 the Board issued its second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group: IFRS 8 Operating Segments clarifies that segment assets and liabilities need only be reported when those assets and liabilities are included in measures that are used by the chief operating decision maker.
As the Groups chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information in note 3.
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows clarifies that only expenditures that result in a recognised asset can be classified as a cash flow from investing activities.
The amendment has no impact on the Group.
IAS 17 Leases clarifies the classification of land and buildings and the specific guidance on classifying land as a lease has been removed only the general guidance remains.
The amendment has no impact on the Group financial statements as there are no property, plant and equipment under finance lease.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets clarifies that the largest unit permitted for allocating goodwill, acquired in a business combination, is the operating segment as defined in IFRS 8 before aggregation for reporting purposes.
The amendment has no impact on the Group as there have been no business combinations.
Other amendments resulting from the 2009 Improvements to IFRS did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
New and amended standards and interpretations Standards and amendments issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below.
This listing is of standards and interpretations issued, which the Group reasonably expects to be applicable at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt those standards when they become effective.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 121 In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement subsequently amended in October 2010.
This new standard represents the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and derecognition.
The completion of this project is expected in early 2011.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
In October 2010, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets, which are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
The Group intends to adopt this standard when it becomes effective.
The Group considers that the amendments to the following standards and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group will not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment In May 2010 the IASB issued improvements to IFRSs, a further omnibus of amendments to its standards.
These amendments have not been adopted as they become effective for annual periods on or after either 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011.
The Group, however, expects no impact from the adoption of the amendments on its financial position or performance.
c Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgments and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
Information about such judgments and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgments Areas of judgment, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial information are: Determination of functional currencies note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgment, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Evaluation of projects status note 2 e : The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgment.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs: the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase.
These judgments directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced.
Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial information include: Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 e and note 13: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the anticipated remaining life of mine production.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is located.
These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions, including the amount of recoverable reserves.
Changes are accounted for prospectively.
Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs notes 2 l and 22: The Group assesses its mine closure cost provision annually.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognized.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 122 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Income tax notes 2 u and 11: Judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
Silverstream note 15: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management.
The derivative has a term of over 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
Expectations of future silver price is one of the key assumptions underlying the valuation of this contract and the strengthening of forward silver prices in 2010 significantly impacted the valuation, resulting in an unrealised pre-tax gain of US$191.8 million recognised in the Income Statement 2009: US$19.4 million.
The fair value of this contract is $427.6 million as at 31 December 2010 2009: US$298.6 million and changes in the underlying assumptions may change this value.
For further detail of this arrangement, see note 15.
For further detail on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31.
The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 32.
Contingent liabilities regarding claims from tax authorities note 27 b : By their nature, contingencies will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgment and estimates of the outcome of future events.
d foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the parent companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all operating entities, this is US dollars.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined.
For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value.
Cost comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-of-production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 5-12 Plant and equipment 4-11 Mining properties and development costs 3-14 Other assets 2-14 An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 123 Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred.
Purchased ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession.
Mine development cost is capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained preoperative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as mine development costs.
The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation and the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost.
Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs.
Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit of production method based on the estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate.
Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value.
Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Stripping costs In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste in order to access the ore body.
During development and pre-production phases, these costs are capitalised as part of the initial mine investment and they are depreciated based on the mines production once commercial operations begins.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a mine.
This activity is referred to as production stripping and commences at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the mine.
The costs of production stripping are charged to the income statement as operating costs.
Further development of a mine may occur following initial extraction of saleable material and during the production phase.
Stripping costs associated with such development activities are capitalised and depreciated based on the related production.
f Determination of ore reserves The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and certified by an independent competent person.
The latest certified ore reserves and mineral resources are used in the unit of production calculation of depreciation for the year, in the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and for determining value in use for any impairment analysis.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and mineral resources.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of ore reserves and mineral resources and may, ultimately, result in the ore reserves being restated.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 124 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued g Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement.
h financial assets Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments: or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets classified as held-for-trading and other assets designated as fair value through profit or loss on inception are included in this category.
Financial assets are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term.
Derivatives are also classified as held-fortrading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Long-term receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 125 Fair value In determining estimated fair value, investments in shares or portfolios of listed securities are valued at quoted bid prices.
When quoted prices on an active market are not available and for listed non-actively traded securities, fair value is determined using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using a recent arms length transaction, if available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
If the range of reasonable fair value is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reliably assessed, the investment is not re-measured at fair value.
i Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are fide-recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial investments If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value and the historic volatility in changes in fair value.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
j Inventories Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock.
A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such allowance.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
k Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and three months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 126 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued l Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
m financial liabilities The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
n Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employees earnings and years of service.
This plan was open to all employees in Mexico and it is denominated in Mexican Pesos.
This plan was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007.
For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index NCPI.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year end balance sheet date.
The discount rate is the yield on mxAAA Standard & Poors and AAA-mex Fitch Ibca credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
The contributions are based on the employees salary.
This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 127 Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service.
Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service.
For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary.
The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year end balance sheet date.
Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies.
Termination payments for involuntary retirement dismissals are charged to the income statement, when incurred.
o Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to ten percent of the taxable income of each fiscal year.
PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries.
The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement.
PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
p Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a.
There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b.
A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c. There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset: or d. There is a substantial change to the asset.
Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b above.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4. q Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated financial information and are disclosed in notes unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the consolidated financial information, but they are disclosed in notes if they are deemed probable.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 128 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued r Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes.
Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are delivered to the customers smelter or refinery, using the Groups best estimate of contained metal.
Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as dor bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are provisionally priced subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Dor bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery.
For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends.
The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
Royalties Income derived from royalties is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received.
Currently the Group receives royalties based on a percentage of the sales of concentrates from the Cedros, Peregrina and Sirena small scale mines rented to a third party.
Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases on a small scale mine rented to a third party is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method: i. e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Interest income is included as finance income in the income statement.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive the payment is established.
s Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: i Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life, and ii Exploration expenses: a.
Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves, and b.
Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project.
Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
t finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, interest income on funds invested and the unwinding of the discount on provisions.
Interest income and costs are recognised as accrued, taking into account the effective yield on the asset or liability.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 129 u Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: i where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: i where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
v fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
w Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in prices of base metals and foreign exchange which impact its financial and business transactions.
Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The Silverstream contract is valued using a net present value valuation approach.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 130 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as a component of equity and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For gains and losses related to the hedging of revenues, these are included as part of revenues and for those related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in the income statement of the related period.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in equity from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand alone derivatives.
x Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys shareholders or Board as appropriate.
Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys subsidiaries.
y value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
z Borrowing costs Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended future use.
In the case of such qualifying assets, finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its intended use.
The amount of finance costs capitalised before the effects of income tax for the period is determined by applying the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during the period to the average amount of accumulated expenditure for the assets during the period.
3 SEGMENT REPORTING For management purposes the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines.
At 31 December 2009 the Group had three reportable operating segments.
The construction of the Soledad-Dipolos mine was successfully concluded in December 2009 and commercial production started in January 2010.
At 31 December 2010 the Group therefore has four reportable operating segments, representing the Groups four producing mines as follows: The Fresnillo mine, located in the State of Zacatecas is the worlds largest primary silver mine: The Cinega mine, located in the State of Durango is an underground gold mine: The Herradura mine, located in the State of Sonora is an open pit gold mine: and The Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the State of Sonora is an open pit gold mine.
The operating performance and financial results are reviewed by management.
As the Groups chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segment.
Projects under development have been aggregated into the Other segment below.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 131 Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation.
Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in Revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within Cost of Sales and Gross Profit which are considered to be outside of the control of the operating management of the mines.
The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to Gross Profit as per the consolidated income statement.
Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments.
Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
In 2010 all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico.
In 2009 all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico, the Companys country of domicile, except for approximately 3.3% of revenue as per the consolidated income statement which was sold to a third party customer based in the Netherlands.
This revenue is shown within the Fresnillo and Cinega segments below.
All non-current assets are located in Mexico.
Operating segments The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Adjustments Year ended 31 December 2010 Soledadand US$ thousands fresnillo herradura Cinega Dipolos Other eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 733,537 366,047 173,200 136,770 - - 1,409,554 Inter-Segment - - - - 35,613 35,613 - Segment revenues 733,537 366,047 173,200 136,770 35,613 35,613 1,409,554 7 Segment Profit 626,983 268,933 116,615 97,669 35,612 31,457 1,114,355 Hedging 3,020 Depreciation 105,216 Employee profit sharing 37,682 Gross profit as per the income statement 974,478 1 2 3 4 5 6 Capital expenditure 60,716 54,411 65,083 36,790 125,021 1,813 340,297 1 Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
2 Capital expenditure consists of scoop equipment and drilling jumbos, mine development work including a shaft and ramps.
3 Capital expenditure relates to leaching pads construction, equipment such as rotary drill rig tractors and dump trucks, construction of an electrical station, open pit mine development activities and Noche Buenas payment for the acquisition of mineral rights and royalties.
4 Capital expenditure relates to a processing plant expansion, scoop equipment, land and mine development work including work on a tailings dam.
5 Capital expenditure relates to leaching pads construction, equipment such as dump trucks and tractors, rotary drill rig and open pit mine development activities.
6 Capital expenditure relates to the Saucito mine developments including hoisting equipment and ramp and shaft developments.
7 Treatment and refining charges amounting to US$64,366 are included in the segment profit.
Previously this information was presented in a separate line.
Adjustments Year ended 31 December 2009 Soledadand US$ thousands fresnillo herradura Cinega Dipolos Other eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 500,433 245,818 128,479 - - 24,786 849,944 Inter-Segment - - - - 17,385 17,385 - Segment revenues 500,433 245,818 128,479 - 17,385 42,171 849,944 6 Segment Profit 407,664 159,953 80,532 - 18,483 14,246 652,386 Hedging 31,863 Depreciation 67,227 Employee profit sharing 24,981 Gross profit as per the income statement 528,315 1 2 3 4 5 Capital expenditure 34,628 64,813 41,665 57,734 50,034 1,573 250,447 1 Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
2 Capital expenditure relates to mine development work, scoop equipment, land and raise boring equipment.
3 Capital expenditure relates to the acquisition of the Noche Buena gold project, dump trucks, and investment in the maintenance workshop.
4 Capital expenditure relates to mine development work, scoop equipment, land and raise boring equipment.
5 Capital expenditure relates to the Saucito mine developments.
6 Treatment and refining charges amounting to US$69,227 were reclassified in 2009 to the segment profit line for comparative purposes.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 132 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 4 REVENUES 1 Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates, dor, slag, and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
a Revenues by product sold Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Lead concentrates containing silver, gold, lead and by-products 797,887 573,594 Dor and slag containing gold, silver and by-products 502,820 245,822 Zinc concentrates 53,566 38,324 Precipitates 55,281 16,990 Effects of hedging - 24,786 1,409,554 849,944 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, dor and slag, were sold to Peoles metallurgical complex for smelting and refining.
1 Included in the value of lead and zinc concentrates, precipitates and dor are provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives.
In 2010 the Group has recognised a profit of US$35.6 million 2009: profit of US$24.0 million.
For further detail refer to note 2 r. b Value of metal content in products sold For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer.
The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Silver 746,176 529,626 1 Gold 653,294 334,169 2 Zinc 40,073 28,282 3 Lead 34,377 27,094 Value of metal content in products sold 1,473,920 919,171 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges 64,366 69,227 4 Total revenues 1,409,554 849,944 1 Includes hedging losses of US$nil 2009: US$25 million 2 Includes hedging gains of US$nil 2009: US$0.1 million 3 Includes hedging gains of US$nil 2009: US$0.1 million 4 Included in the value of lead and zinc concentrates, precipitates and dor are provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives.
For further detail refer to note 2 r. The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, including the effects of hedging but prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ per ounce Gold 1,252.1 988.9 Silver 21.4 15.3 GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 133 5 COST OF SALES Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Depreciation note 13 105,216 67,227 Personnel expenses note 8 82,932 60,349 Maintenance and repairs 56,494 39,251 Operating materials 65,177 47,110 Energy 57,856 35,257 Contractors 59,801 31,905 Freight 9,027 6,143 Mining rights and contributions 4,775 4,633 Gain Loss on foreign currency hedges 3,020 7,077 Change in work in progress and finished goods ore inventories 16,822 12,944 Other 13,640 9,733 435,076 321,629 6 ADMINISTRATIVE ExPENSES Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Administrative expenses charged by Peoles Group: 1 Administrative services 29,832 30,308 29,832 30,308 Personnel expenses note 8 9,638 9,683 Other administrative expenses 13,124 9,876 52,594 49,867 1 For the period from the IPO on 14 May 2008 to 31 October 2009 certain services, comprising administrative and non-administrative services were provided by Servicios Industriales Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SIPSA to the Group under a Transitional Services Agreement entered into on 15 April 2008 for a global fee of US$51.0 million.
Of this amount, approximately US$15.0 million related to engineering and construction, technical research and development and central workshop costs, which are considered non-administrative services.
The remaining US$36.0 million related to administrative expenses.
From 1 November 2009 a new agreement was entered into for the period to 31 October 2012.
The annual fee amounts to US$6.1 million and MXP277.5 million US$23.7 million.
On 21 December 2009, pursuant to an internal corporate restructuring within Peoles, SIPSAs interest in the new service agreement was transferred to Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. a wholly owned Peoles subsidiary.
7 ExPLORATION ExPENSES Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Contractors 57,373 33,408 Administrative services 6,519 5,214 Mining rights and contributions 6,541 3,483 Personnel expenses note 8 2,995 2,052 Assays 2,225 1,565 Maintenance and repairs 1,064 1,215 Operating materials 2,232 921 Rentals 919 600 Energy 213 152 Other 2,032 453 82,113 49,063 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in increasing the reserves and resources of the operating mines and projects held by the Fresnillo, Penmont, La Cinega, Saucito and Juanicipio legal entities.
Minor exploration expenses of US$1.1 million 2009: US$0.3 million were incurred in the year elsewhere in Latin America.
The following table sets forth liabilities generally payables incurred in the exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by the Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 134 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 3 677 Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Operating cash out flows 82,787 48,540 8 PERSONNEL ExPENSES Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Employees profit sharing 38,404 24,981 Salaries and wages 20,668 17,712 Bonuses 10,637 8,416 Legal contributions 8,242 6,579 Other benefits 5,414 4,503 Vacations and vacations bonus 2,424 2,278 Social security 2,989 2,327 Post-employment benefits note 23 1,590 3,405 Other 5,197 1,883 95,565 72,084 a Personnel expenses are distributed in the following line items: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Cost of sales note 5 82,932 60,349 Administrative expenses note 6 9,638 9,683 Exploration expenses note 7 2,995 2,052 95,565 72,084 b The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows: Year ended 31 December 1 2010 2009 No.
Mining 1,169 1,058 Plant concentration 285 245 Exploration 178 142 Maintenance 486 462 Administration and other 311 305 Total 2,429 2,212 1 In 2010, the classification of mine employees was modified, consequently, the 2009 disclosure was modified for comparative purposes.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 135 9 OThER INCOME AND OThER ExPENSES Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Other income: Rentals 1,141 1,761 Royalties 609 815 Other 3,233 1,297 4,983 3,873 Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Other expenses: 1 Maintenance 1,332 853 Donations 461 603 2 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 754 144 Write-off of accounts receivable 32 446 Other 8,720 2,456 11,299 4,502 1 Relates to maintenance of closed and leased mines owned by Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. 2 Includes the disposal of assets as a result of replacing equipment due to capacity expansions.
10 FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands finance income: Interest on short term deposits 2,369 912 Mark to market movement on currency derivatives 1,028 - Other 490 752 3,887 1,664 finance costs: Unwinding of discount on provisions note 22 3,005 1,615 Mark to market movement on currency derivatives 227 - Other 251 286 3,483 1,901 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 136 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 11 INCOME TAx ExPENSE a The major components of income tax expense are: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Current income tax: Current income tax charge 196,332 110,427 Amounts overprovided in previous years 1,308 6,108 1 IETU in excess of income tax - 249 Recognition of previously un-recognised tax losses - 12,946 195,024 91,622 Deferred income tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 20,393 13,189 2 Changes to future tax rates - 5,082 Recognition of previously un-recognised tax losses - 757 Amounts overprovided in previous years - 4,553 Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 57,552 5,432 77,945 7,529 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 272,969 99,151 1 Business Flat tax Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica or IETU 2 On 7th December 2009 new temporary tax rates were published in the Official Daily of the Federal Government.
The tax rate for 2010 is 30% and will continue in effect for 2011 and 2012, the tax rate for 2013 will be 29% and the tax rate from 2014 will be 28%.
Deferred taxes have been calculated at the rate applicable to the year the amounts are expected to materialise.
Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Consolidated Statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Recycling of net gain loss gain on valuation of cash flow hedges to income 631 9,531 Net gain arising on valuation of cash flow hedges 1,179 1,122 Net expense arising on unrealised gain on available-for-sale assets 20,536 6,407 Income tax expense reported in other comprehensive income 21,084 17,060 GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 137 b The following is a reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Groups statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate.
Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 1,022,367 457,418 Tax at the Groups statutory income tax rate 30.0% 2009: 28.0% 306,710 128,077 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 760 1,547 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities 13,802 4,787 Recognition of previously un-recognised tax losses - 13,703 Current income tax overprovided in previous years 1,308 6,108 Deferred income tax overprovided in previous years - 4,553 Put option closed prior to maturity - 4,105 Restatement on tax value of fixed assets 1,208 - Tax depreciation fide-recognised - 1,029 Changes to future tax rates - 5,082 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities 6,574 1,034 Non-deductible asset disposals 1,688 3,229 Non-deductible non-taxable foreign exchange gains or losses 9,402 5,491 Inflationary uplift of tax losses 1,337 1,141 IETU in excess of income tax - 249 Other 2,558 1,208 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 26.7% 2009: 21.7% 272,969 99,151 c The movements in deferred income tax liabilities and assets are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Beginning balance 110,581 88,234 Income statement charge 77,945 7,529 Exchange difference 3,845 2,242 Others 2,453 - Cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 631 9,531 Revaluation of derivatives used for cash flow hedges 1,179 1,122 Unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 20,536 6,407 Ending balance 203,222 110,581 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The amounts after offset are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Deferred income tax assets 14,226 9,363 Deferred income tax liabilities 217,448 119,944 Ending balance 203,222 110,581 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 138 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December 2010 and 2009 considering the nature of the temporary differences, are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 US$ thousands ASSETS LIABILITIES NET BALANCE Related party receivables - 65,921 65,921 Other receivables - 494 494 Inventories 10,178 - 10,178 Prepayments - 735 735 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract - 58,544 58,544 Property, plant and equipment - 143,934 143,934 Operating liabilities 1,866 - 1,866 Other payables and provisions 10,523 - 10,523 Losses carried forward 52,735 - 52,735 Post-employment benefits 1,767 - 1,767 Deductible profit sharing 11,862 - 11,862 Available-for-sale financial assets - 21,246 21,246 Other - 1,279 1,279 Net deferred tax balances 88,931 292,153 203,222 As at 31 December 2009 US$ thousands ASSETS LIABILITIES NET BALANCE Related party receivables - 36,921 36,921 Other receivables 50 - 50 Inventories 8,098 - 8,098 Prepayments - 590 590 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract - 16,562 16,562 Property, plant and equipment - 129,505 129,505 Operating liabilities 1,551 - 1,551 Other payables and provisions 10,310 - 10,310 Losses carried forward 46,616 - 46,616 Post-employment benefits 1,627 - 1,627 Deductible profit sharing 7,673 - 7,673 Available-for-sale financial assets - 711 711 Other - 2,217 2,217 Net deferred tax balances 75,925 186,506 110,581 A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$188.3 million 2009: US$166.5 million.
There are no unrecognised tax assets in either year.
d Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences is expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$503.5 million 2009: US$184.3 million.
Income Tax Impuesto Sobre la Renta or ISR and Business Flat Tax Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica or IETU In accordance to the Mexican tax law, the Group companies in Mexico are subject to Income Tax ISR and Business Flat Tax IETU.
IETU is an alternative minimum corporate income tax effective in January 1, 2008 which replaced the business asset tax as a minimum tax.
Companies are required to pay the greater of their mainstream corporate income tax liability for the year or their liability to IETU.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 139 th On 7 December 2009 new temporary tax rates were published in the Official Daily of the Federal Government.
The income tax rate for 2009 was 28%, for 2010 is 30% and will continue in effect in 2011 and 2012, the tax rate for 2013 will be 29% and the tax rate from 2014 will be 28%.
IETU is calculated at the rate of 17% for the calendar year 2009 and 17.5% for subsequent years and applies to the sale of goods, rendering of independent services and temporary use or enjoyment of goods.
In calculating the charge to IETU, deductions are allowed for certain expenses incurred in generating income.
In respect of the Group, in 2009 management undertook calculations to determine the impact of the new IETU provisions on the Group.
As a result of such analysis, management concluded that there was no material impact on the Group, other than the US$6.1 million tax credit arising under IETU that was recognised in 2009, since the mainstream corporate income tax liability for each group company was forecast to be greater than the future potential IETU charge.
These conditions continued in 2010, accordingly, no IETU liability was recognised in either year.
12 EARNINGS PER ShARE Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
The company has no dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As of 31 December 2010 and 2009, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ thousands 665,126 322,011 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ thousands 530,838 308,042 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$191.8 million gain US$134.3 million net of tax 2009: US$19.4 million and US$14.0 million net of tax.
Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 141 14 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Beginning balance 68,435 45,530 Additions - 25 Fair value change 73,342 22,880 Ending balance 141,777 68,435 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Equity securities-listed Canadian companies 141,777 68,435 Total 141,777 68,435 15 SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine Sabinas, a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million.
In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years 1 to 5 and $5.00 thereafter subject to an inflationary adjustment commencing on 31 December 2013 is payable to Peoles.
Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver.
If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall.
The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within non-current and current assets as appropriate.
Changes in the contracts fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement.
In the year ended 31 December 2010 total proceeds received were US$55.6 million 2009: US$39.0 million, corresponding to 3.1 million ounces of payable silver 2009: 3.0 million ounces.
As at 31 December 2010, a further US$7.2 million 2009: US$nil of cash corresponding to 265,331 ounces of silver is due.
The most significant driver of the US$191.8 million unrealised gain taken to income 2009: US$19.4 was the strengthening of expectations of the forward price of silver during the year.
A future downturn in the forward price of silver, which may happen given the cyclical nature of prices, would result in recognising an unrealised loss in the income statement.
A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: 2010 2009 US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 298,659 318,268 Cash received 55,623 39,010 Cash receivable 7,195 - Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 191,840 19,401 Balance at 31 December 427,681 298,659 See note 31 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 32 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset, and note 2 c for the estimates and assumptions.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 142 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 16 INVENTORIES At the date of the balance sheet this item is comprised of the following: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands 1 Finished goods 3,027 499 2 Work in progress 22,938 6,277 Operating materials and spare parts 38,675 28,204 64,640 34,980 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 1,548 1,197 Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 63,092 33,783 1 Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and dor bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery.
2 Work in progress includes metals contained in stockpile ore and in ores in leaching pads.
The majority of stockpile is located at Saucito.
Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and or refineries.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries.
These products once processed by the smelter and refinery are sold to customers in the form of refined products.
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$360.0 million 2009: US$252.6 million.
The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense was US$1.2 million 2009: US$0.1 million.
17 TRADE AND OThER RECEIVABLES As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands 1 Trade receivables from related parties note 28 188,548 89,391 Value Added Tax receivable 8,982 8,419 Advances to suppliers and contractors 3,825 2,671 Other receivables from related parties note 28 7,195 434 Loans granted to contractors 5,805 - Other receivables 11,220 7,806 225,575 108,721 Provision for impairment of other receivables 591 479 224,984 108,242 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Advances to suppliers and contractors 1,172 - Loans granted to contractors 7,336 - Other receivables 3,179 - 11,687 - 236,671 108,242 1 Trade receivables from related parties includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$6.2 million as at 31 December 2010 2009: US$ 3.3 million.
Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days.
Loans granted to contractors bear interest of LIBOR plus 1.5% to LIBOR plus 3% and have a maturity of 2 to 6 years.
The total receivables denominated in US$ were US$226.0 million 2009: US$97.9 million, and in Pesos US$10.6 million 2009: US$10.3 million.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 143 Movements in the provision for impairment of other receivables in the table above were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Beginning of the year 479 141 Charge for the year 81 446 Amounts written off - 127 Exchange difference 31 19 End of the year 591 479 As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of other receivables in the table below, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired.
NEIThER PAST DUE PAST DUE BUT NOT IMPAIRED Year ended 31 December TOTAL IMPAIRED NOR IMPAIRED 30 DAYS 30-60 DAYS US$ thousands 2010 Trade receivables from related parties 188,548 - 188,548 - - Other receivables from related party 7,195 - 7,195 - - Loans granted to contractors 13,141 - 13,141 - - Other receivables 14,399 591 13,808 - - Total 223,283 591 222,692 - - 2009 Trade receivables from related parties 89,391 - 89,391 - - Other receivables from related party 434 - 434 - - Other receivables 7,806 479 7,327 - - Total 97,631 479 97,152 - - In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty.
18 PREPAYMENTS At the date of the balance sheet this item is comprised of the following: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Insurance and bonds 2,531 1,883 Others 1 29 2,532 1,912 19 CASh AND CASh EqUIVALENTS As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 1,988 1,358 Short-term deposits 557,549 310,834 Cash and cash equivalents 559,537 312,192 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 144 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 20 EqUITY Share capital and share premium The authorised and issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: AUThORISED ISSUED CLASS Of ShARES NUMBER AMOUNT NUMBER AMOUNT Ordinary shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 717,160,159 $358,580,080 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of 1.00 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2010 and 2009, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferrable.
Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital reserve The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method.
Net unrealised gains losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges This reserve records the portion of the loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement.
Unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group.
Retained earnings accumulated losses This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 145 21 DIVIDENDS PAID The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, are as follows: US CENTS PER AMOUNT ORDINARY ShARE US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2010 1 Final dividend for 2009 declared and paid during the year 16.2 116,180 2 Interim dividend for 2010 declared and paid during the year 9.2 65,979 25.4 182,159 Year ended 31 December 2009 3 Final dividend for 2008 declared and paid during the year 7.7 55,864 4 Interim dividend for 2009 declared and paid during the year 5.25 37,651 12.95 93,515 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 April 2010 and paid on 2 June 2010.
2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 August 2010 and paid on 14 September 2010.
3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2009 and paid on 27 May 2009.
4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 August 2009 and paid on 18 September 2009.
22 PROVISION FOR MINE CLOSURE COST The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of mine deposits.
The present value of the provision at 31 December 2010 has been calculated using an annual real discount rate of 4.33 per cent 2009: 4.33 per cent.
The unwinding of discount charge in 2010 has been calculated using a nominal discount rate of 8.5 per cent 2009: 8.5 per cent.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, and reclamation alternatives and timing and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions.
It is the Groups intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense.
The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines.
The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, which ranges from 6 to 27 years from 31 December 2010 8 to 19 years from 31 December 2009.
Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Beginning balance 35,513 18,951 Decrease increase to existing provision 962 14,480 Unwinding of discount note 10 3,005 1,615 Foreign exchange 2,126 467 Ending balance 39,682 35,513 23 PENSIONS AND OThER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS The tables below provide information relating to the defined benefit pension plan, the seniority premium for voluntary separation and payments to the defined contribution plan.
a Net benefit expense recognised in cost of sales : Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Current service cost 764 625 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,883 2,371 Expected return on plan assets 2,413 2,103 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 980 1,280 Net defined benefit expense 254 2,173 Payments to defined contribution plans 1,336 1,232 Net benefit expense note 8 1,590 3,405 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 146 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Analysis of net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Actual return on plan assets 2,758 2,400 Expected return on plan assets 2,413 2,103 Foreign exchange 46 108 Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 299 189 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 681 1,469 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 980 1,280 b Benefit liability: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation 38,543 34,009 Fair value of plan assets 32,123 28,198 Benefit liability 6,420 5,811 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 34,009 28,851 Interest cost 2,883 2,371 Current service cost 764 625 Benefits paid 545 409 Actuarial gains losses on obligation 681 1,469 Defined benefit increase due to personnel transfer to the Group 114 26 Foreign exchange 1,999 1,128 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 38,543 34,009 Funded plan 32,445 28,771 Unfunded plan 6,098 5,238 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 38,543 34,009 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands fair value of plan assets at 1 January 28,198 25,352 Expected return on plan assets 2,413 2,103 Actuarial gains 299 189 Amount transferred due to personnel transfer to the Group 114 26 Benefits paid 545 409 Foreign exchange 1,644 989 fair value of plan assets at 31 December 32,123 28,198 The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on market expectations applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 147 The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2010 2009 % % Discount rate 7.8 8.5 Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.8 8.5 Future salary increases 4.8 5.5 The mortality assumptions are that for current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 17.3 and 20.6 years respectively 2009: 17.28 years for men, 20.59 for women, 2008: 16.9 years both.
The fair value of the plan assets was as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Government debt 1,076 6,762 Promissory notes - 99 State owned companies 12,354 3,310 Corporate bonds 937 1,997 Mutual funds fixed rates 17,756 16,030 32,123 28,198 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group.
As at 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 US$ thousands Fair value of plan assets 32,123 28,198 25,352 12,702 Present value of defined benefit obligation 38,543 34,009 28,851 15,272 Deficit in the plan 6,420 5,811 3,499 2,570 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 681 1,469 169 1,673 Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 299 189 488 471 The Group has not contributed to its defined benefit pension plan in 2010 and does not expect to contribute in 2011.
24 TRADE AND OThER PAYABLES As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Trade payables 50,766 35,696 Other payables to related parties note 28 2,323 375 Accrued expenses 12,037 9,870 Other taxes and contributions 5,663 2,345 70,789 48,286 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 32.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 148 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 25 COMMITMENTS a Capital expenditure: A summary of capital expenditure commitments is as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. 50,470 54,205 Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C:V. 70,056 12,102 Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 19,359 9,461 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 48,782 14,664 Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 40,703 - 229,370 90,432 26 OPERATING LEASES a Leases as lessor The group leases certain small mines to third parties and certain equipment to contractors.
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Within one year 929 1,968 After one year but not more than five years 2,043 3,737 2,972 5,705 b Leases as lessee The group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment.
These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Within one year 1,070 1,068 After one year but not more than five years 651 596 1,721 1,664 As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 1,612 1,227 27 CONTINGENCIES As of 31 December 2010, the Group has the following contingencies: a The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
b Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 149 likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
c On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta o CUFIN after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
28 RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 and balances as at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, those who have a minority participation in Group companies, and key management personnel of the Group.
a Related party accounts receivable and payable ACCOUNTS RECEIvABLE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE As at 31 December As at 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$ thousands Trade: Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 188,548 89,391 - - Other receivables: Industrias Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 7,195 434 2,323 375 Sub-total 195,743 89,825 2,323 375 Less-Current portion 195,743 89,825 2,323 375 Non-current portion - - - - Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash.
Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 427,681 298,659 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash.
Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 15.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 150 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued b Principal transactions with affiliates, including Industrias Peoles S. A.
B fide C. V. the Companys parent, are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Income: 1 Sales: Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,397,399 821,578 Other income 860 659 Total income 1,398,259 822,237 1 Figures do not include hedging losses.
Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services: Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 29,832 30,308 Servicios fide Exploracin, S. A. fide C. V. 2,781 1,678 32,613 31,986 Energy: Termoelectrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 26,074 17,785 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 3,747 2,977 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S. A. fide C. V. 3,538 2,427 Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 2,223 1,563 5,761 3,990 Other expenses: 11,485 8,366 Total expenses 79,680 65,104 c Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration.
Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 3,716 3,624 Post-employment pension 59 78 Other benefits 615 562 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 4,331 4,186 Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 14,528 13,230 This compensation includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen.
There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 151 29 AUDITORS REMUNERATION Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the year ended 31 December 2010 and the year ended 31 December 2009 is as follows: Ernst & Young Year ended 31 December CLASS Of SERvICES 2010 2009 US$ thousands Audit of the financial statements 1,101 1,197 Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 202 245 Other services pursuant to legislation 263 296 Other services relating to taxation 41 107 Other services 8 - Total 1,615 1,845 30 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED CASh FLOW STATEMENT Year ended 31 December Notes 2010 2009 US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 749,398 358,267 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation 5 105,216 67,227 Employee profit sharing 8 38,404 24,981 Deferred income tax 11 77,945 7,529 Current income tax expense 11 195,024 91,622 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 9 754 144 Other expenses 10,695 485 Net finance costs 10 397 237 Foreign exchange gain 1,801 9,498 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 254 2,174 Non cash movement on derivatives 801 25,018 Changes in fair value of Silverstream 15 191,840 19,401 Working capital adjustments Increase in trade and other receivables 147,220 50,495 Increase decrease in prepayments and other assets 3,303 1,643 Increase decrease in inventories 29,309 4,856 Increase in trade and other payables 13,865 6,162 Cash generated from operations 817,678 510,951 Income tax paid 90,380 102,347 Employee profit sharing paid 26,599 17,892 Net cash from operating activities 700,699 390,712 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 152 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS a Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: As at 31 December CARRYING AMOUNT fAIR vALUE 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$ thousands financial assets: 1 Cash and cash equivalents 559,537 312,192 559,537 312,192 1 2 Trade and other receivables 218,520 97,152 218,520 97,152 Available-for-sale financial assets 141,777 68,435 141,777 68,435 Silverstream contract note 15 427,681 298,659 427,681 298,659 Derivative financial instruments 4,056 1,373 4,056 1,373 financial liabilities: 1 Trade and other payables 53,089 36,071 53,089 36,071 Derivative financial instruments 152 95 152 95 1 The carrying value of these financial instruments is deemed to approximate fair value note 17, 19 and 24.
2 Trade and other receivables includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$6.2 million as at 31 December 2010 2009: US$ 3.3 million.
b Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of the financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the following fair value hierarchy as at 31 December.
As of 31 December 2010 LEvEL 1 LEvEL 2 LEvEL 3 TOTAL US$ thousands financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts - 4,056 - 4,056 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts - - 6,162 6,162 Silverstream contract - - 427,681 427,681 - 4,056 433,843 437,899 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 141,777 - - 141,777 141,777 4,056 433,843 579,676 financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Options and forward foreign exchange contracts - 152 - 152 - 152 - 152 As of 31 December 2009 LEvEL 1 LEvEL 2 LEvEL 3 TOTAL US$ thousands financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts - 1,373 - 1,373 Silverstream contract - - 298,659 298,659 - 1,373 298,659 300,032 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 68,435 - - 68,435 68,435 1,373 298,659 368,467 financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts - 95 - 95 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts - - 3,348 3,348 - 95 3,348 3,443 GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 153 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream which is disclosed in note 15 is shown below: 2010 2009 US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 3,348 3,976 Changes in fair value 35,573 23,994 Realised sales 26,063 31,318 Balance at 31 December 6,162 3,348 Silverstream contract: The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model for further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note 15.
This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and or the duration of the contract.
Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican Peso and US Dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate is disclosed in note 32.
The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined.
The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time.
Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company.
The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peoles.
The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years.
Embedded derivatives within sales contracts: Sales of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are provisionally priced and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Groups best estimate of the contained metal.
Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery see note 2 r. This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract.
The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non observable input to this valuation.
At 31 December 2010 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$6.2 million 2009: US$ 3.3 million.
The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues.
c Hedging activities-cash flow hedges The Group historically entered into derivative transactions with the purpose of managing commodity price risk associated with the sale of lead, zinc, gold and silver.
The Group did not have open commodity contracts used for base metals hedging at 31 December 2010 or 2009.
Derivative hedging instruments relating to gold and silver sales were terminated during the second half of 2007 resulting in a cash payment of US$81.3 million at the date of termination.
The cumulative hedging losses relating to the terminated hedging instruments were deferred in equity and reclassified to the income statement when the forecast transaction occurs.
In 2009 the Group recycled pre-tax hedging losses of US$25.0 million which was included in revenue.
During 2010 there are no pre-tax losses recycled to the income statement with respect to the derivatives terminated in 2007 and as at 31 December 2010 there are no remaining pre-tax hedging losses related to these derivatives.
The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican Pesos and Euros.
The carrying value of these derivative contracts is detailed below: Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 154 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Foreign currency contracts As at 31 December 2010 2010 CONTRACT CONTRACT fAIR TERM CURRENCY vALUE ExChANGE RATE vALUE thousands US$ thousands Mexican Peso denominated forward contracts 2011 US$ 75,000 MX$12.50:US$1 to MX$13.24:US$1 2,027 Reflects US$63 million forward sales contracts and US$12 million forward purchase contracts.
The Group also entered into a number of Mexican Peso-US Dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These fiderivative instruments mature over the period from 12 January 2011 to 2 September 2011.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican Pesos amounting to US$36 million with a range of floor prices from MX$12.90 to MX$13.30:US$1 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$14.50:US$1.
The fair value of the Put options at 31 December 2010 was an asset of US$2.0 million and a liability of US$0.2 million, and the fair value of the Call options at 31 December 2010 was a liability of US$0.1 million.
As at 31 December 2009 2009 CONTRACT CONTRACT fAIR TERM CURRENCY vALUE ExChANGE RATE vALUE thousands US$ thousands Mexican Peso denominated forward sales contracts 2010 US$ 21,000 MX$13.50:US$1 to MX$14.13:US$1 1,185 Mexican Peso denominated forward purchase contracts 2010 US$ 8,000 MX$13.11 US$1 to MX$13.53 US$1 28 Mexican Peso denominated option contracts 2010 US$ 10,000 MX$11.50:US$1 to MX$12.00:US$1 67 Euro denominated forward contracts 2010 EUR 5,508 US$1.40:EUR1 188 Foreign currency hedging contracts held as at 31 December 2009 had maturity dates from January to June 2010 corresponding with when the hedged costs were expected to be incurred.
The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in equity for the year: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$ thousands Beginning balance 895 26,408 1 Gains losses recycled to income statement in the year 2,102 34,038 Deferred tax recycled 631 9,531 Unrealised gain before tax arising during the year 3,927 3,918 Deferred tax on unrealised losses arising during the year and taken directly to equity 1,179 1,122 Ending balance 2,172 895 1 Of the net gains recycled to income, US$2.1 million gains were included in cost of sales 2009: US$24.8 million losses in revenue and US$7.1 million losses in cost of sales.
32 FINANCIAL RISk MANAGEMENT Overview The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets and trade payables.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: a Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks b Credit risk c Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 155 The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican Pesos 2009: Mexican Pesos and UK Pound Sterling which are exposed to foreign currency risk.
Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchases of services, fixed assets, spare parts and other items.
As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in Mexican Pesos, also holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican Pesos 2009: Mexican Pesos and UK Pound Sterling.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican Peso, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable exchange rates for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments.
STRENGThENING WEAkENING EffECT ON PROfIT EffECT ON EQUITY: Year ended 31 December Of US DOLLAR BEfORE TAx: INCREASE DECREASE INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands US$ thousands 2010 10% 715 8,660 10% 874 12,058 2009 10% 1,363 2,741 10% 1,666 3,351 In order to manage the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in Mexican Pesos, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates in 2011 see note 31 for additional detail.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the UK pound sterling on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant: STRENGThENING WEAkENING EffECT ON PROfIT Year ended 31 December Of US DOLLAR BEfORE TAx: INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands 2010 10% - 10% - 2009 10% 3,308 10% 4,043 There is no impact on the Groups equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Foreign currency risk - Silverstream Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican Peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
STRENGThENING WEAkENING EffECT ON fAIR vALUE: Year ended 31 December Of US DOLLAR INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands 2010 10% 4,953 10% 6,053 2009 10% 5,467 10% 6,681 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 156 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Commodity risk The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Groups results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
Historically the Group used derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price fluctuations.
This practice was discontinued in 2007, when the Group assumed precious metals commodity risk exposure in response to favourable price trends.
The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in gold and silver prices, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in gold and silver prices is applied to all applicable periods.
There is no impact on equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
INCREASE DECREASE EffECT ON PROfIT Year ended 31 December IN SILvER AND GOLD PRICE BEfORE TAx: INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands 2010 15% 22,065 15% 21,935 2009 15% 12,112 15% 12,112 The sensitivity shown in the table above relates to changes in fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contract.
Commodity price risk - Silverstream Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
INCREASE DECREASE EffECT ON fAIR vALUE: Year ended 31 December IN SILvER PRICE INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands 2010 25% 120,165 25% 120,165 2009 15% 51,523 15% 51,523 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
BASIS POINT INCREASE DECREASE EffECT ON PROfIT Year ended 31 December IN INTEREST RATE BEfORE TAx: INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands 2010 100 5,727 100 5,727 2009 100 3,121 100 3,121 There is no impact on the Groups equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 157 Interest rate risk - Silverstream Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
BASIS POINT INCREASE DECREASE EffECT ON fAIR vALUE: Year ended 31 December IN INTEREST RATE INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands 2010 100 16,887 100 18,423 2009 100 14,796 100 16,392 Equity price risk The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Groups profit before tax and equity: INCREASE DECREASE IN EffECT ON PROfIT EffECT ON EQUITY: Year ended 31 December EQUITY PRICE BEfORE TAx: INCREASE DECREASE INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands US$ thousands 2010 5% - 7,089 5% - 7,089 2009 5% - 3,422 5% - 3,422 Inflation rate risk-Silverstream Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
BASIS POINT INCREASE DECREASE EffECT ON fAIR vALUE: Year ended 31 December IN INfLATION RATE INCREASE DECREASE US$ thousands 2010 100 1,827 100 1,753 2009 100 1,886 100 1,830 b Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, the Silverstream contract and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour theirs obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 28, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Groups financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than Other receivables as disclosed in note 17.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty Met-Mex Peoles, the Groups primary customer throughout 2010 and 2009.
A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract.
Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peoles group which currently owns 77 per cent of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be of appropriate credit rating.
Refer to note 17 for analysis of trade receivables ageing.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 158 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The Groups surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions.
In order to minimize exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of P-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above, and only for periods of less than 30 days.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 14 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 19 for cash and cash equivalents and note 28 for related party balances with Met-Mex.
The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31 December 2010, being $427.6 million In 2009 $298.7.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands WIThIN 1 YEAR 1-2 YEARS 2-3 YEARS 3 YEARS TOTAL As at 31 December 2010 Trade and other payables 53,089 - - - 53,089 Derivative financial instruments assets 102,000 - - - 102,000 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 12,164 - - - 12,164 As at 31 December 2009 Trade and other payables 36,071 - - - 36,071 Derivative financial instruments assets 30,187 - - - 30,187 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 18,000 - - - 18,000 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However those amounts may be settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands WIThIN 1 YEAR 1-2 YEARS 2-3 YEARS 3 YEARS TOTAL As at 31 December 2010 Inflows 117,800 - - - 117,800 Outflows 114,164 - - - 114,164 Net 3,636 - - - 3,636 As at 31 December 2009 Inflows 40,246 - - - 40,246 Outflows 48,187 - - - 48,187 Net 7,941 - - - 7,941 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to exercise in 2011.
It is the Groups expectation that currency option contracts will not be exercised unless doing so is beneficial to the Group.
Options that are not expected to be beneficial to the Group have therefore been excluded from the liquidity analysis.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist only of equity as disclosed in the balance sheet.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 159 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Fresnillo plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 of December 2010 Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 Nick Gomer Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 28 February 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report FINANCIALS
