128 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Recommendation and explanatory notes relatingtobusiness to be conducted at the AnnualGeneralMeeting on 19 May 2011 The board of G4S plc considers the Resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success of the company and are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the Resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own benefi cial holdings.
Explanatory notes in relation to certain of the business to be conducted at the AGM are set out below.
1 Election and re-election of directors Resolutions 4 to 13 The companys articles of association require that directors retire and stand for election at the next AGM of the company following their appointment by the board.
Ms Spottiswoode and Ms Fok are therefore standing for election on this basis.
Other board members are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every three years and at least one-third of the board is also required to stand for re-election.
The board has however decided that it will adopt the practice required by the UK Corporate Governance Code which has replaced the Combined Code on Corporate Governance whereby all members of the board of directors of FTSE 350 companies will offer themselves for election by the companys members annually.
Accordingly, in keeping with the boards aim of following best corporate governance practice, all the continuing directors are standing for election or re-election by the shareholders at this years AGM.
2 Authority to allot shares Resolution 15 Resolution 15 seeks shareholder approval for the directors to be authorised to allot shares.
At the last AGM of the company held on 28 May 2010, the directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the company up to a maximum nominal amount of 235,080,000 representing approximately 66% of the companys then issued ordinary share capital.
This authority expires at the end of this years AGM.
Of this amount 470,160,000 shares representing approximately 33% of the companys then issued ordinary share capital could only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
Resolution 15 will, if passed, renew this authority to allot on the same terms as last years resolution save that the number of shares in question has increased slightly.
The board considers it appropriate that the directors be granted a similar authority to allot shares in the capital of the company up to a maximum nominal amount of 235,100,000 representing approximately 66% of the companys issued ordinary share capital as at 22 March 2011 the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Of this amount, 470,200,000 shares representing approximately 33% of the companys issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
The power will last until the conclusion of the next AGM in 2012.
The intention of the directors is to allot shares upon the exercise of options granted over Securicor plc shares and rolled over into options over the companys shares.
As at 22 March 2011, options exist over only 50,000 shares.
The directors do not have any other present intention of exercising this authority.
In accordance with best practice, if the directors were to exercise this authority so as to allot shares representing more than one-third of the current capital of the company, they would all offer themselves for re-election at the following AGM, although, as noted in 1. above, it is the directors current intention to stand for election annually in any event.
As at the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, the company does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the company in treasury.
However, the 5,029,315 shares held within the G4S Employee Benefi t Trust and referred to on page 110 note 37 to the consolidated fi financial statements areaccounted for as treasury shares.
3 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights Resolution 16 Resolution 16 seeks shareholder approval to give the directors authority to allot shares in the capital of the company pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 15 for cash without complying with the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain circumstances.
This authority will permit the directors toallot: a shares up to a nominal amount of 235,100,000 representing approximately 66% of the companys issued share capital on an offer to existing shareholders.
However unless the shares are allotted pursuant to a rights issue rather than an open offer, the directors may only allot shares up toanominal amount of 117,550,000 representing approximately 33% of the companys issued share capital in each case subject to any adjustments, such as for fractional entitlements and overseas shareholders, as the directors see fi t : and b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 17,632,000, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 22March2011 the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting otherwise than in connection with an offer toexisting shareholders.
As with Resolution 15, the terms of Resolution 16 are the same as last years resolution save that the number of shares in question has increased slightly.
The directors confi rm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period.
The Principles provide that companies should not issue shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
4 Purchase of own shares Resolution 17 Resolution 17 seeks to renew the companys authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 141,060,000 representing a little less than 10% of the companys issued ordinary share capital asat 22 March 2011 the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and sets minimum and maximum prices.
Thisauthority will expire at the conclusion of the companys AGM in 2012.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, taking into account the fi financial resources of the company, the companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
No shares were purchased pursuant to the equivalent authority granted to the directors at the companys last AGM.
As at 22 March 2011 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, there were options over 50,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the company representing 0.0036% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these warrants and options would represent 0.0039% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 129 5 Political donations Resolution 18 Resolution 18 is designed to deal with the rules on political donations contained in the Act.
Under the rules, political donations to any political parties, independent election candidates or political organisations or the incurring of political expenditure are prohibited unless authorised by shareholders inadvance.
What constitutes a political donation, a political party, a political organisation, or political expenditure is not easy to decide, as the legislation iscapable of wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfi lling public duties, and support for bodies representing the business community in policy review or reform, may fall within this.
Therefore, notwithstanding that the company has not made political donations requiring shareholder authority in the past, and has no intention either noworin the future of making any such political donation or incurring any such political expenditure in respect of any political party, political organisation orindependent election candidate, the Board has decided to put forward Resolution 18, which is the same as the resolution on this subject which was passedatthe companys AGM held on 28 May 2010.
This will allow the company to continue to support the community and put forward its views to wider business andgovernment interests without running the risk of being in breach of the law.
As permitted under the Act, Resolution 18 also covers political donations made, or political expenditure incurred, by any subsidiaries of the company.
6 Amendment to Article 92 Resolution 19 Institutional guidelines state that a companys articles of association should impose a fi xed limit on the level of directors fees, either individually or in aggregate.
Article 92 1 of the companys Articles of Association currently provides for an annual aggregate limit of 750,000.
Resolution 19 is a resolution to replace the current limit in Article 92 1 of the companys Articles of Association with an annual aggregate limit of 1,000,000.
The proposed aggregate limit has been calculated by reference to the current number of directors of the company, fees currently paid for the provision of the chairmans services and the potential to appoint additional non-executive directors to the board.
Under the companys Articles of Association, the fees to be paid to directors in respect of the offi ce of director such fees are distinct from any remuneration which may be paid to directors in respect of executive employment or other special services to the company are to be determined by the directors and the proposed amendment should provide the directors with additional fl exibility in appointing additional board members if this is seen as desirable and in setting levels of remuneration.
7 Period of notice for calling general meetings Resolution 20 Resolution 20 is a resolution to allow the company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on 14 days notice.
Before the introduction of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 on 3 August 2009, the minimum notice period permitted by the Act for general meetings other than AGMs was 14 days.
One of the amendments made to the Act by the Regulations was to increase the minimum notice period for general meetings of listed companies to 21 days, but with an ability for companies to reduce this period back to 14 days other than for AGMs provided that two conditions are met.
The fi first condition is that the company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution ofshareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
The board is therefore proposing Resolution 20 as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the company other than AGMs.
The approval will be effective until the companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The board will consider on a case by case basis whether the use of the fl exibility offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the meeting is time sensitive.
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
