The GAME Group plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Statement of Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The accounting reference date of The GAME Group plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings the Group is 31 January.
The comparative years results are for the 53 week period ended 31 January 2009.
The current years results are for the 52 week period ended 30 January 2010.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of the Group made up to 31 January 2010.
The Group has used the acquisition method of accounting to consolidate the results of subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiary undertakings are included from the date of acquisition.
The Group consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and those IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations issued and effective and endorsed by the European Union as at the time of preparing these financial statements.
Estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Significant items subject to such assumptions and estimates include the useful lives of assets, the measurement and recognition of provisions, the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for potential corporation tax.
The most critical accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of the Group are those requiring the greatest degree of subjective or complex judgements.
These relate to inventory valuation: lease costs: the valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets: share-based payments and taxation.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Changes in accounting policies In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payments: vesting conditions and cancellations, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments amendment.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised includes the requirement to present a Statement of Changes in Equity as a primary statement and introduces the possibility of either a single Statement of Comprehensive Income combining the Income Statement and a Statement of Comprehensive Income or to retain the Income Statement with a supplementary Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Directors have chosen the second option.
As this standard is concerned with presentation only it does not have any impact on the results or net assets of the Group.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
By contrast IAS 14 Segmental Reporting required business and geographical segments to be identified on a risks and rewards approach.
The effect of applying IFRS 8 is to restate the 2008 09 Comparatives according to the operating segments, UK and Ireland Stores, International Stores, Global Online.
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board of Directors.
The online segment is now reported separately, as the Board of Directors consider this segment to be of growing importance.
Our r Our results esults Statement of Accounting Policies The GAME Group plc 79 continued Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payments: vesting conditions and cancellations results in an immediate acceleration of the IFRS 2 expense that would otherwise have been recognised in future periods should an employee decide to stop contributing to the savings plan as well as in a potential revision to the fair value of the awards granted to factor in the probability of employees withdrawing from such a plan.
Management has concluded that so far there has been no impact on the results of the Group as a result of this amendment.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes requires the deferral of revenue for the fair value of Loyalty Card points until these points are redeemed.
Previously only the estimated cost of these points was accrued with the associated charge being recognised in cost of sales.
The effect of this change is to decrease profit before tax in the prior period by 2.2 million.
Additionally, the effect of this change has been to reduce the retained earnings at 1 February 2008 by 2.3 million.
The table set out below demonstrates the impact of this upon Operating Profit to show the re-statement to the figures previously disclosed.
2009 000 Operating profit before non-recurring costs and IFRIC 13 133,128 IFRIC 13 impact 2,247 Operating profit before non-recurring costs 130,881 IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments amendment requires additional disclosures on the hierarchy of fair values which following adoption have now been reported.
As this amendment is concerned with disclosures only it does not have any impact on the result or net assets of the Group.
Standards and Interpretations in issue not yet adopted The International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee have issued the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the following dates: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Effective Date IFRS 3 Business Combinations amendment and complementary amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 01 07 2009 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement: Eligible Hedged Items amendment 01 07 2009 IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations amendment 01 01 2010 IAS 7 Statement of cash flows amendment 01 01 2010 IAS 18 Revenue amendment 01 01 2010 IAS 36 Impairment of assets amendment 01 01 2010 IAS 38 Intangible assets amendment 01 01 2010 IFRS 1 Additional exemptions for First Time adopters amendments 01 01 2010 IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based payment Transactions amendments 01 01 2010 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 01 01 2013 Improvements to IFRSs Various GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Statement of Accounting Policies continued International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Effective Date IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 01 01 2009 IFRIC 9 and Embedded derivatives amendments 30 06 2009 IAS 39 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate 01 01 2009 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash assets to owners 01 07 2009 IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers 01 07 2009 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 01 07 2010 These standards and interpretations are not endorsed by the EU at present.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain the benefits from its activities.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included in Note 15 to the Company Financial Statements.
Revenue Revenue comprises the value of sales excluding VAT and similar taxes, trade discounts and intra-Group transactions of goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
Revenue is recognised at the point of sale, for high street retailing, to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group.
On-line revenue is recognised when the goods are despatched.
Non-recurring costs The Group presents as Non-recurring costs on the face of the income statement those costs which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to better understand the financial performance in the year.
The Groups policy is to expense these costs in the period in which they were incurred.
Non-recurring costs include the costs of integrating a new business.
Reward Card Scheme The Group operates a reward card programme which allows members to accumulate points on purchases, get exclusive offers and other special benefits.
The value of points issued is deferred and recognised as revenue on redemption of the points by the customer.
Our r Our results esults Statement of Accounting Policies The GAME Group plc 81 continued Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Gift vouchers Revenue from gift vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group is recognised on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
Monies received are shown as deferred revenue prior to redemption.
Foreign currencies The functional and presentational currency of the Group is pounds sterling.
Foreign currency transactions of individual companies are translated at the exchange rates ruling when they occurred.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet dates.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the year and their balance sheets translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet dates.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets of foreign subsidiary undertakings and from translating the profit and loss account at an average rate are taken to reserves.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in the foreign exchange reserve relating to that operation up to the date of disposal are transferred to the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and fair value adjustments are treated as assets liabilities of the foreign operation and are expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments are translated at the closing rate in the same manner as any other assets and liabilities.
The Group has taken advantage of the provisions under IFRS 1 to avoid applying this to acquisitions made before the transition date 1 February 2004.
Interest Interest payable is charged to the income statement as incurred, except where the borrowing finances property, plant and equipment in the course of construction.
Such interest is capitalised until the asset has reached practical completion and is then written off by way of depreciation of the relevant asset.
Dividends The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting whilst interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
Goodwill and other intangibles Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least twice a year.
The impairment review is assessed by reference to the value-in-use, using internal forecasts and a discount rate based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The valuation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations is based on assumptions and the Directors draw upon a variety of external sources to aid them in the determination of appropriate data to use such valuations.
Brands acquired through business combinations are amortised over their expected useful life.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Statement of Accounting Policies continued On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit and loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 1 February 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets excluding Goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, Plant and Equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual values of all property, plant and equipment, on a straight-line basis, over their expected useful lives at the following annual rates: Short leasehold property over period of lease Improvements to leasehold property 10% Freehold Land 0% Freehold property 1% to 5% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 20% to 33% The residual values of Property, Plant and Equipment are re-assessed on an annual basis.
Computer Software and Web Development Computer software and web development are accounted for as intangible assets where the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets has been met.
Intangible assets are valued at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over five years unless the asset can be demonstrated to have an indefinite life.
Intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually.
Our r Our results esults Statement of Accounting Policies The GAME Group plc 83 continued Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Leased assets Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Premiums paid or received on the acquisition of short leasehold properties are transferred to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the length of the lease.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated to include, where applicable, duties, handling, transport and other directly attributable costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling prices less further costs expected to be incurred in selling and distribution.
Provisions A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability.
Calculations of these provisions require judgements to be made, which include forecast consumer demand and inventory loss trends.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current Tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred Tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Statement of Accounting Policies continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Pension contributions The Group makes payments to a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of these schemes do not form part of the assets of the Group.
The pension cost charge represents contributions payable during the year.
Share-based payments Share based incentive arrangements are provided to employees under the Groups share option, incentive and sharesave schemes.
Share options granted to employees and share-based arrangements put in place since 7 November 2002 are valued at the date of grant or award using an appropriate option pricing model and are charged to the income statement over the performance or vesting period of the scheme.
The annual charge is modified to take account of shares forfeited by employees who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely that the option will vest.
When shares and share options are awarded to employees a charge is made to the income statement.
The associated deferred tax is charged to the income statement with any excess deferred tax being recorded directly in reserves in accordance with IAS 12.
The directors are of the opinion that the Black-Scholes model is the most appropriate due to its simplicity and is deemed the most accurate when taking into account the expected timing of the exercise of options.
The options model requires highly subjective assumptions to be made and the Directors draw upon a variety of external sources to aid them in the determination of appropriate data to use in such calculations.
During the vesting period of share options, an assessment is required of the likelihood of whether non-market performance conditions will be met, which affects the estimate of the number of share options that will vest, and hence the amount charged to the income statement.
Employee Benefit Trust The cost of the Companys shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust is deducted from the shareholders funds in the Group balance sheet.
Any cash received by the Trust on disposal of the shares it holds is also recognised directly in shareholders funds.
Other assets and liabilities of the Trust including borrowings are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Group.
Any shares held by the Trust are treated as cancelled for the purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Financial risk management The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, foreign exchange and interest rates.
The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
Our r Our results esults Statement of Accounting Policies The GAME Group plc 85 continued Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, finance leases, cash and short-term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into interest rate swaps derivative transactions.
Their purpose is to assist in the management of the Groups financial risk.
These instruments are also used, where appropriate, to generate the desired effective interest rate profile.
The Group hedge accounts for commercial purposes and not for accounting purposes.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below: Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term debt obligations and deposits.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk Due to the international nature of its activities, the Groups reported profits, net assets and gearing are all affected by foreign exchange movements.
Although the Group carries out operations through a number of foreign enterprises, Group exposure to currency risk at a transactional level is minimal.
The day to day transactions of overseas subsidiaries are carried out in local currencies.
Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, credit worthy third parties.
The Group does not enter into derivatives to manage its credit risk.
At the balance sheet date there were no concentrations of credit risk.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counter party with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high credit-quality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
Cash surpluses are placed on deposit only with financial counterparties with a short-term credit ratings of A1 P1 or better and long-term ratings of A1 A or better.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements.
To achieve this it seeks to maintain cash balances to meet expected requirements for a period of at least 60 days.
The liquidity risk for each country is managed centrally.
Budgets are set locally but agreed by the Board in advance to enable the Groups cash requirements to be anticipated.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Statement of Accounting Policies continued financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
The Group does not hold any held-tomaturity investments or AFS financial assets.
Financial assets at FVTPL This category comprises only in-the-money derivatives see Financial liabilities section for out-of-money derivatives.
They are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement in finance income or expense line.
The Group does not have any assets held for trading nor does it voluntarily classify any financial assets as being at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
This provision represents the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits at call with banks, bank overdrafts and unpresented cheques.
Bank overdrafts where there is no right of set off are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangements.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL This category comprises only out of the money derivatives.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign exchange or interest fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value with subsequent movements in fair value taken to the income statement.
Net interest arising on interest rate agreements is taken to the income statement.
Other than these derivative financial instruments, the Group does not have any liabilities held for trading nor has it designated financial liabilities as being at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value for the Groups interest rate swaps derivatives is based on broker quotes for similar instruments.
Other financial liabilities Trade and other payables are recognised on the trade date of the related transactions.
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Our r Our results esults Statement of Accounting Policies The GAME Group plc 87 continued Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2009.
In managing its capital, the Groups primary objective is to ensure its continued ability to provide a consistent return for its equity shareholders through a combination of capital growth and distributions.
In order to achieve this objective, the Group seeks to maintain a gearing ratio that balances risks and returns at an acceptable level and also to maintain a sufficient funding base to enable the Group to meet its working capital and strategic investment needs.
In making decisions to adjust its capital structure to achieve these aims, either through altering its dividend policy, new share issues, or the reduction of debt, the Group considers not only its short-term position but also its long-term operational and strategic objectives.
