36 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The following table provides a summary of the key elements of the Companys remuneration package: Element Purpose Operation Salary To provide competitive fixed remuneration that will Reviewed every twelve months.
Benchmarked against attract and retain key employees and reflect their appropriate market comparators.
experience and position in the Company.
Annual bonus Incentivises achievement of annual objectives which Maximum bonus potential is normally set at a maximum support the short to medium-term strategy of the of 100% of basic salary dependent on stretching targets Company.
relating to profit, net debt reduction and challenging personal objectives.
For the 2010 11 financial year the maximum bonus has been set at an exceptional maximum of 150% of basic salary.
The additional entitlement of up to 50% of basic salary is dependent on the achievement of additional challenging personal objectives and any payment under this exceptional criteria will be deferred for a period of one year.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee an early payment of all or part of the additional entitlement may be made in circumstances of retirement, redundancy or ill-health.
Payments under the annual bonus plan are subject to clawback in the event of a material mistatement of the Companys financial results.
Long-term share incentives Performance share plan incentivises executives to Share incentive grants are made annually at a normal achieve superior returns to shareholders over a three level equal to 100% of basic salary to senior executives year period and to retain key individuals and align and other senior management and are based on the interests with shareholders.
achievement of EPS targets over a performance period that is normally three years.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management should be based on corporate and individual performance related targets that support the Companys strategy and objectives.
The policy is intended to create a strong link between business performance and reward and to generate value to shareholders, employees and the Company.
In setting the Executive Directors remuneration the Committee took into account the pay and employment conditions applicable across the Group in the reported period and no increases were made in the period to Directors remuneration terms compared against the prior year.
Base Salary The Executive Directors basic salary is reviewed by the Committee prior to the beginning of each financial year, taking into account individual and corporate performance, an assessment of comparator companies and levels of increases applicable to other employees in the Company.
Executive Directors contracts of service which include details of remuneration will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 November 2010.
Annual Bonus The Committee establishes the objectives that must be met for each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid.
The maximum bonus and the proportion paid for on-target performance are considered in the light of market practice for companies of a similar size and industry sector.
For the year ending June 2010 the maximum bonus was 100% of salary with 40% of salary payable for on-target performance.
Targets were based on both corporate and individual objectives.
A maximum of 60% of the bonus opportunity is based on corporate performance as measured by profit before tax, 20% of the bonus opportunity is based on the achievement of net debt targets and the remaining 20% of the bonus opportunity is based on the achievement of personal objectives.
Share Awards & Share Options In 2004 the Company adopted a strategy to offer long-term share incentives by way of share awards to the Directors and senior management of the Company and by way of share options to middle management.
Since 2004 no share options have therefore been granted to the Directors of the Company.
The long-term share awards are granted under the Genus plc 2004 Performance Share Plan the Plan.
Under the Plan, incentives can take the form of conditional share awards or nil cost options and are driven by the achievement of growth in the Companys underlying earnings per share normally over a three year period, with the proportion of the grant that vests being shown in table A opposite.
For grants of share awards made prior to October 2008, the performance conditions shown in table B apply.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward
