30 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The Audit Committee The Audit Committee, comprising Mike Buzzacott Chairman, Nigel Turner and Barry Furr, meets at least three times a year and has formal terms of reference that are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
At the invitation of the Committee, meetings are attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Groups internal and external auditors.
Minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the adequacy of the Groups accounting systems and control environment including risk management, the Groups internal audit function, the effectiveness and independence of the Groups external auditors, and the Groups reporting to shareholders.
The Audit Committee report set out on pages 33 and 34 provides details of the role and activities of the Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising Nigel Turner Chairman, John Hawkins and Mike Buzzacott, meets at least twice a year to review the performance of the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers, and to recommend their remuneration and other benefit packages, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and share incentives.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board as a whole sets the remuneration of the Non-Executives.
The Remuneration Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee which includes details of Directors remuneration and Directors interests in share incentives is shown on pages 35 to 39.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, comprising John Hawkins Chairman, Nigel Turner and Richard Wood, is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
Its duties include reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes, giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
In the period the Committee considered the appointment of a new Chairman.
Suitable candidates were identified by the Committee using the services of external consultants to facilitate a search and a recommendation was made to the Board.
As a result, Bob Lawson has been appointed Chairman effective 11 November 2010 after the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Science Committee The Boards Science Committee is chaired by Professor Barry Furr and has the responsibility of developing and recommending to the Board the Companys research and development strategy that will allow Genus to extend its leading position in livestock breeding by scientific innovation.
The Committee met three times in the period.
Terms of Reference The terms of reference for the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Science Committee are available on the Companys web-site: www.
Board Performance Evaluation The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Company.
Each year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman and supported by the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel, carried out in the period an evaluation of performance using a system based on the use of a questionnaire and has met to discuss the conclusions of the evaluation exercise.
The performance evaluation exercise focused on matters such as Board process and functioning: Board performance: governance and independence of Non-Executive Directors: committee functioning, performance and composition: and the Chairmans role and Board composition, including succession planning both in respect of the Board and senior management.
The evaluation exercise showed the Board and its Committees to be working well.
Certain recommendations for improvement have been agreed and will be implemented in the current financial year.
The Board is satisfied that each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
During the period the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met as a group without the Executive Directors present.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors have also met without the Chairman present to discuss any appropriate issues and appraise the Chairmans performance, taking account of the views expressed by the Executive Directors.
Shareholder Relations The Company has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors through a planned programme of investor relations.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet frequently with representatives of institutional shareholders and private client brokers.
Feedback from these meetings including that prepared by independent brokers and advisors is discussed at Board meetings enabling all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, to understand the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director also maintain contact with major shareholders.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward
