34 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has reviewed a report from management on the effectiveness of the external audit work based on questionnaires completed by key financial staff and members of the Audit Committee covering matters such as: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: the content of the external auditors reports: and cost effectiveness.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditors be reappointed for a further year.
The current Senior Statutory Auditor has completed five years of service to the Company.
The Audit Committee undertook a review of potential candidates to fulfil the role and has selected the new Senior Statutory Auditor.
Internal Audit function The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Companys internal audit function has been outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP and, whilst the arrangement is kept under review as the Group expands, the Audit Committee believes this arrangement currently provides an effective internal audit function given the geographical spread of the Group.
In fulfilling its responsibilities the Committee has reviewed the following in the period: the scope, terms of reference, resource and activities of the internal audit function within the Group: internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: the internal auditors reports on the results of individual audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of resolution of the matters raised in such reports: the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit: and the performance of the internal auditors.
The Groups Whistle-blowing Policy contains arrangements for the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
It has also ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and has assisted the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Mike Buzzacott Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 September 2010 Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward
