Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 35 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006 and also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the Combined Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 11 November 2010 at which the financial statements will be put to shareholders for approval.
The Companies Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee The Company has established a Remuneration Committee which is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on an overall remuneration package for the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers of the Company.
The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner Chairman, John Hawkins and Mike Buzzacott.
None of the Committee members has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board and no Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
During the year the Committee met four times and the following matters were covered: review of the market competitiveness of the remuneration policy and the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and Chief Operating Officers of the Company: review of the salary levels for the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers of the Company: agreement of the terms of the Executive Annual Bonus Plan and of the individual bonuses payable in the light of the Groups and individuals performance: agreement of the individual long-term share incentive awards under the Companys 2004 Performance Share Plan and 2004 Executive Share Option Plan: review of the performance measures and targets to apply these awards: approval of the vesting levels of long-term awards: approval of this Directors Remuneration Report: and review of the current investor guidelines on executive remuneration.
In determining the Directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Committee also appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street to provide advice on structuring Directors remuneration packages.
Hewitt New Bridge Street did not provide any other services to the Company or the Group.
Remuneration Policy The Companys executive and senior management remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain individuals of the high calibre required to maintain the Groups position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and key members of senior management and the determination of their annual remuneration package are undertaken by the Committee.
The main principles are to: ensure that salaries are set at a market competitive level by benchmarking against appropriate external comparators: support a high performance culture: maintain an appropriate balance of fixed and performance related pay which delivers over the short, medium and longer term: align long-term rewards with shareholders: and ensure that the overall package reflects market practice and takes into account levels of remuneration elsewhere in the Group.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
