87 10 Employees including Directors continued Key management The key management of the Group comprises GKN plc Board Directors and the members of the Groups executive Committee during the year and their aggregate compensation is shown below.
More detailed disclosure on Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 58.
2010 2MM9 Key management compensation m m Salaries and short term employee benefits 6.0 5.6 post-employment benefits 0.8 M. 7 Termination benefits M. 5 Share-based and medium term incentives and benefits 3.2 1.
M 10.0 7.8 The amount outstanding at 31 December 2M1M in respect of annual short term variable remuneration payable in cash was 1.8 million 2MM9: 1.4 million.
Key management participate in certain incentive arrangements where the key performance metric is management earnings per share using the cash tax rate which is discussed on page 28 of the business review.
Management eps using the cash tax rate is 2M.
a total of 27,1MM in dividends was received by key management in 2M1M 2MM9: nil.
11 Share-based payments The Group has granted options over shares to employees for a number of years under different schemes.
Where grants were made after 7 November 2MM2 they have been accounted for as required by IFrS 2 Share-based payment.
awards made before that date have not been so accounted.
all options have been valued at the date of grant by an independent third party using a Monte Carlo model which uses the same principle as a binomial model.
Details of awards made in 2M1M are set out below.
Details of awards made since 7 November 2MM2 that impact the 2M1M accounting charge are: a Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS awards were made to Directors and certain senior employees in March 2MM3 under the 2MM1 scheme and in September 2MM4, april 2MM5, april 2MM6, august 2MM9 and May 2M1M under the 2MM4 scheme.
In april 2MM7 awards were made to Directors under the 2MM4 scheme.
Under both schemes options were granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price at the date of grant and subject to meeting performance conditions over a three year period.
In the case of the 2MM1 scheme, the performance condition was based on earnings per share eps growth whilst under the 2MM4 scheme the condition is based on Total Shareholder return TSr compared with that of comparator companies.
Under the 2MM1 scheme only, where the performance condition is not satisfied in full after the first three years, retesting is carried out each year up to six years from the date of grant.
Inputs to the valuation model were: option price 11M.
3p, volatility 31% to 38%, expected dividend yield 3.3% to 6.2%, risk-free interest rate 2.8M% to 5.4M% and expected terms of 6.
b Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP awards were made to Directors and certain senior employees in March 2MM3 under the 2MM1 scheme and in September 2MM4, april 2MM6, april 2MM7, august 2MM9 and august 2M1M under the 2MM4 scheme.
In april 2MM5 awards were made to Directors under the 2MM4 scheme.
Under both schemes, options were granted subject to TSr performance over a three year period compared with a comparator group.
There is no retest facility under either scheme.
Inputs to the valuation model for awards made prior to 2MM9 were: option price nil, volatility 23% to 39%, expected dividend yield 3.3% to 6.2%, risk-free interest rate 4.
M5% to 5.4M% and a term of 3 years to 4 years 9.5 months.
In respect of the 2MM9 and 2M1M awards, the inputs to the valuation model were: option price nil, volatility nil, expected dividend yield 4.5%, and a term of 4 years.
These awards were only made to main Board Directors.
c Profit Growth Incentive Plan PGIP awards were made in april 2MM7 and august 2M1M under the pGIp to certain senior employees excluding Directors.
any benefit under the pGIp will be deliverable dependent upon the extent to which profit growth targets are satisfied by the Group over a 3 year performance period.
The pGIp is a cash-based incentive plan, however, for certain very senior employees the benefit is deliverable in shares: the number of shares given below will be released following the performance period if the minimum targeted profit growth is achieved.
a maximum of twice the amount of shares listed below will be released on achievement of the maximum profit growth target, with one and a half times the number being released for interim performance.
No shares will be released and the awards will lapse if the minimum profit growth target is not achieved.
release is also conditional upon the satisfaction of a personal shareholding requirement for certain very senior employees.
any awards deliverable under the pGIp will be satisfied from GKN ordinary shares already in issue.
The 2MM9 pGIp award is a 2 year award that is entirely cash based and therefore not subject to the IFrS 2 requirements.
any benefit under this scheme will be delivered dependent upon the extent to which profit growth targets are satisfied by the Group over a 2 year performance period.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a period commensurate with the term of the awards.
The risk-free interest rate is the rate obtainable from government securities over the expected life of the equity incentive.
Further details of the eSoS, LTIp and pGIp schemes are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 58.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
