33 Operational risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Supply chain Lack of availability of equipment, components, n Ongoing assessment of supplier technology and services and raw materials that meet specifications.
dependency Volatility in production and the need to maintain n Dual sourcing to reduce dependence on single appropriate inventory levels requires effective supply supplier chain management.
Supply chain disruption could n Monitoring of financial viability of key suppliers impact GKNs sales to and relationships with its customers and result in additional unrecoverable costs.
Input costs Rising cost of raw materials, labour and energy.
The cost n Contract negotiations to ensure the ability to pass on of raw materials for the Groups products and other key charges to customers inputs may fluctuate and could adversely affect the n Secure long term contracts for key inputs with stable Groups earnings if it were unable to pass increases pricing on to its customers.
n Forward purchasing of energy requirements where appropriate n Maintaining good labour relations Product quality Potential liabilities for defects in products, warranty n High levels of quality assurance claims or product recalls.
Product quality issues could n Robust manufacturing systems adversely affect profits and damage GKNs reputation.
People Inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, n Annual talent management and performance particularly engineering professionals.
The absence development process of adequate talent and a lack of continuity in n Competitive reward packages and Group-wide training management and leadership could result in an inability and development programmes to execute the strategic plan and deliver improving n A high performance culture and motivating environment financial performance.
Acquisitions Inability to realise expected benefits of acquisitions.
n Focused reviews to ensure strategic alignment A lack of suitable acquisition targets aligned with the of acquisitions planned growth strategy, a failure to integrate acquired n Extensive pre-acquisition due diligence businesses successfully, or an inability to capture value n Careful management of integration plans by from them could impact operations and prevent experienced on-site management successful delivery of GKNs strategic objectives.
n Post acquisition reviews Financial risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Pensions Pension deficit levels are affected by changes in asset n Active management of pension scheme assets and values, discount rates, inflation and mortality assumptions.
long term view of liability assumptions Accounting valuations of pension obligations can cause n Continuing review of the level of benefits provided volatility in financial results.
Additional Company pension n Alternative funding and deficit reduction plans contributions may restrict investment in businesses.
implemented where appropriate Exchange rates Currency risks: transactional subsidiary sales or n Hedging of transaction exposures through forward purchases in currencies other than their functional foreign exchange contracts currency and translational exchange rate movements n Balance sheet translational hedging policy currently in investments in overseas operations.
The Groups suspended due to continuing volatility of foreign financial statements may fluctuate as a result of currencies against sterling movements in exchange rates.
n Borrowings in local currency including access to overseas debt capital markets Taxation GKN is subject to complex tax laws and audit procedures.
n Ongoing monitoring of tax developments in major Actual tax liabilities could differ from accruals which are jurisdictions based on management judgements.
n Group-wide tax compliance programme The Group insures against the impact of a range of unpredictable losses associated with both its business assets and liabilities.
GKNs risk financing strategy is based on a significant level of capped self-insured retention at the Group level within GKNs own captive insurance company, Ipsley Insurance Ltd, which does not insure the risks of any other entity and a much lower retention at subsidiary level through deductibles.
Catastrophe insurance is then purchased in the commercial market over and above these levels of retention.
Ipsleys current participation in GKNs principal insurance programme is 10 million per incident capped at 20 million in any one year.
Due to the nature of the risk, the Groups aviation products liability insurance is placed solely in the commercial market.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
