NoTeS To THe FINaNCIaL STaTeMeNTS CoNTINUeD 7M 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long term interest and exercises joint control with its partners over their financial and operating policies.
In all cases voting rights are 5M% or lower.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method.
The Groups share of equity includes goodwill arising on acquisition.
The Groups share of profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and joint ventures are eliminated.
Foreign currencies Subsidiaries and joint ventures account in the currency of their primary economic environment of operation, determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences sales and input costs.
Transactions are translated at exchange rates approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the transaction except in the case of material transactions where actual spot rate may be used if it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of the transaction.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward contracts.
assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of intra-group balances treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary are recognised through equity.
Movements on other intra-group balances are recognised through the income statement.
The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
on consolidation, results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated to sterling at average exchange rates except in the case of material transactions where the actual spot rate is used if it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of the transaction.
assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
profits and losses on the realisation of currency net investments include the accumulated net exchange differences that have arisen on the retranslation of the currency net investments since 1 January 2MM4 up to the date of realisation.
Presentation of the income statement IFrS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income statement.
Line items and subtotals have been presented on the face of the income statement in addition to those required under IFrS.
Sales shown in the income statement are those of continuing subsidiaries.
operating profit is profit before discontinued operations, taxation, finance costs and the share of post-tax profit of joint ventures accounted for using the equity method.
In order to achieve consistency and comparability between reporting periods, operating profit is analysed to show separately the results of normal trading performance and individually significant charges and credits.
Such items arise because of their size or nature and, comprise: n charges relating to the Group wide restructuring programme announced in 2MM8: n the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review: n asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from events which are significant to any reportable segment: n amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations: n changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and material currency translation movements arising on intra-group funding: n profits or losses on businesses sold or closed which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations or which the Group views as capital rather than revenue in nature: n profits or losses arising from business combinations including fair value adjustments to pre-combination shareholdings, changes in estimates of deferred and contingent consolidation made after the provisional fair value period and material expenses incurred on a business combination: and n the 2M1M UK pension scheme curtailment.
The Groups post-tax share of joint venture profits is shown as a separate component of profit before tax.
Material restructuring and impairment charges, amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations and other net financing charges and their related taxation are separately identified.
Net finance costs are analysed to show separately interest payable, interest receivable and other net financing charges.
other net financing charges include the net of interest payable on post-employment obligations and the expected return on pension scheme assets and unwind of discounts on fair value amounts established on business combinations.
Revenue recognition Sales revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable which generally equates to the invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes and net of allowances for returns, early settlement discounts and rebates.
Invoices for goods are raised when the risks and rewards of ownership have passed which, dependent upon contractual terms, may be at the point of despatch, acceptance by the customer or, in aerospace, certification by the customer.
revenue from royalties and the rendering of services is not significant.
Many businesses in automotive and Land Systems recognise an element of revenue via a surcharge or similar raw material cost recovery mechanism.
The surcharge invoiced or credited is generally based on prior period movement in raw material price indices applied to current period deliveries.
other cost recoveries are recorded according to the customer agreement.
In those instances where recovery of such increases is guaranteed, irrespective of the level of future deliveries, revenue is recognised, or due allowance made, in the same period as the cost movement takes place.
