95 19 Net borrowings continued b Fair values 2010 2MM9 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Borrowings, other financial assets and cash and cash equivalents other borrowings 537 564 569 57M Finance lease obligations 3 3 4 4 Bank overdrafts and other short term bank borrowings 53 53 63 63 Bank balances and cash 158 158 132 132 Short term bank deposits and other bank deposits 284 284 2M4 2M4 151 178 3MM 3M1 Trade and other payables Government refundable advances 40 40 28 28 Deferred and contingent consideration 27 27 32 32 67 67 6M 6M The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair values for financial instruments: Unsecured bank overdrafts, other short term bank borrowings, bank balances and cash and short term bank deposits approximate to book value due to their short maturities.
For other amounts, the repayments which the Group is committed to make have been discounted at the relevant interest rates applicable at 31 December 2M1M.
Bonds included within other borrowings have been valued using quoted closing market values.
20 Financial risk management The Groups activities give rise to a number of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Market risk includes foreign currency risk, cash flow and fair value interest rate risk and commodity price risk.
The Group has in place risk management policies that seek to limit the effects of financial risk on financial performance.
Derivative financial instruments, mainly forward foreign currency contracts, are used to hedge risk exposures that arise in the ordinary course of business.
risk management policies have been set by the Board and are implemented by the central Treasury Department that receives regular reports from all the operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The Treasury Department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines to manage foreign currency risks, interest rate risk, financial credit risk and liquidity risk and the use of financial instruments to manage these.
a Foreign currency risk The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries functional currency.
These exposures are forecast on a monthly basis by operating companies and are reported to the central Treasury Department.
Under the Groups foreign currency policy, such exposures are hedged on a reducing percentage basis over a number of forecast time horizons using forward foreign currency contracts.
The Groups reporting currency for its consolidated financial statements is sterling.
Changes in exchange rates will affect the translation of results and net assets of operations outside of the UK.
The Groups largest exposures are the euro and the US dollar where a 1% movement in the average rate impacts trading profit of subsidiaries and joint ventures by 1.
regarding financial instruments a 1% strengthening of sterling against the currency rates indicated below would have the following impact on operating profit: Trading profit: payables Derivative and financial Intra-group receivables instruments funding m m m euro M. 4 M. 3 M. 8 US dollar M. 3 7.2 1.1 The derivative sensitivity analysis has been prepared by re-performing the calculations used to determine the balance sheet values adjusted for the changes in the individual currency rates indicated with all other cross currency rates remaining constant.
The sensitivity is a fair value change relating to derivatives for which the underlying transaction has not occurred at 31 December.
The Group intends to hold all such derivatives to maturity.
The analysis of other items has been prepared based on an analysis of a currency balance sheet.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
