73 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Taxation Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement unless they relate to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income when the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Full provision is made for deferred tax on all temporary differences resulting from the difference between the carrying value of an asset or liability in the statements and its tax base.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of joint ventures.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of overseas branches and subsidiaries except to the extent that it is probable that such earnings will be remitted to the parent in the foreseeable future.
Pensions and post-employment benefits The Groups pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK and in certain overseas companies pension arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit schemes, the contributions to which are based on the advice of independent actuaries or in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
In other overseas companies funds are retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit arrangements which provide certain employees with defined postemployment healthcare benefits.
The Group accounts for all post-employment defined benefit schemes through full recognition of the schemes surpluses or deficits on the balance sheet at the end of each year.
actuarial gains and losses are included in other comprehensive income.
Current and past service costs, curtailments and settlements are recognised within operating profit.
returns on scheme assets and interest on obligations are recognised in other net financing charges.
For defined contribution arrangements the cost charged to the income statement represents the Groups contributions to the relevant schemes in the year in which they fall due.
Government refundable advances Government refundable advances are reported in Trade and other payables in the balance sheet.
refundable advances include amounts lent by Government, accrued interest and directly attributable costs.
refundable advances are provided to the Group to part-finance expenditures on specific development programmes.
The advances are provided on a risk sharing basis, i. e. repayment levels are determined subject to the success of the related programme.
Interest is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Share-based payments Share options granted to employees and share-based arrangements put in place since 7 November 2MM2 are valued at the date of grant or award using an appropriate option pricing model and are charged to operating profit over the performance or vesting period of the scheme.
The annual charge is modified to take account of shares forfeited by employees who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of nonmarket related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely the option will vest.
Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations issued but not yet adopted The Group does not intend to adopt any standard, revision or amendment before the required implementation date.
The impact of the adoption of the IFrS 9 Financial instruments is being assessed.
The following is a summary of revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations which the Group does not currently believe will have a material impact on the Groups results, assets or liabilities.
annual improvements 2M1M IaS 12 amendment regarding deferred tax recognition on investment properties IaS 24 revised regarding government related entities IaS 32 regarding presentation on classification of rights issues IFrS 7 amendment regarding derecognition of financial assets IFrIC 14 amendment regarding prepayments of a minimum funding requirement IFrIC 19 extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The Groups significant accounting policies are set out above.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFrS, requires the use of estimates, subjective judgement and assumptions that may affect the amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and reported profit and earnings for the year.
The Directors base these estimates, judgements and assumptions on a combination of past experience, professional expert advice and other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The accounting policies where the Directors consider the more complex estimates, judgements and assumptions have to be made are those in respect of acquired non-operating intangible assets business combinations note 24, post-employment obligations including the valuation of the pension partnership plan asset note 26, derivative and other financial instruments notes 4c and 21, taxation note 6 and impairment of non-current assets note 12.
The details of the principle estimates, judgements and assumptions made are set out in the related notes as identified.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
