111 NoTeS To THe FINaNCIaL STaTeMeNTS oF GKN pLC 1 Significant accounting policies and basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies act 2MM6.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention except where other measurement bases are required to be applied and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting Standards and law.
In accordance with FrS 1 revised 1996 and FrS 8 the Company has taken advantage of the exemptions not to prepare a cash flow statement and not to disclose transactions with related parties.
as the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFrS 7, the Company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FrS 29.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently in both years presented.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Treasury shares GKN shares which have been purchased and not cancelled are held as treasury shares and deducted from shareholders equity.
Share-based payments equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The Company has no employees.
equity-settled share-based payments that are made available to employees of the Companys subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Companys investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Profit and loss account Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Current tax is recognised in the profit and loss account unless items relate to equity.
Dividends The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the annual general meeting whilst interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
2 Profit and loss account as permitted by section 4M8 of the Companies act 2MM6 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2M1M was 11M million 2MM9: 1M million.
auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was M. 6 million 2MM9: M. 7 million.
3 Fixed asset investments m at 1 January 2M1M 3,569 additions share-based payments 3 at 31 December 2M1M 3,572 principal subsidiary and joint venture companies, the investments in which are held through intermediate holding companies, are shown on pages 114 and 115.
4 Reserves Capital Profit redemption and loss reserve account m m at 1 January 2M1M 925 profit for the year 11M Share-based payments 3 Transfers 298 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 23 at 31 December 2M1M 298 1,015 GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
