reMUNeraTIoN reporT CoNTINUeD 54 Shareholding requirement Historical TSR performance In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETuRN % shareholders generally, all Directors are subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of Directors shareholdings are given in the second table on page 58.
Executive Directors Under a policy adopted by the remuneration Committee, executive - Directors are required to establish and maintain an investment in GKN shares equivalent to at least 1MM% of their basic salary.
The receipt of any shares by a Director from an award made under the LTIp and eSoS is #- conditional upon the shareholding requirement being met on the third GKN TSR anniversary of the grant of the award.
For these purposes any vested but - LTIP Comparator unexercised rights under the LTIp will be counted as shares.
Group Median TSR Until the required shareholding level is reached, an executive Director ESOS Comparator $-# Group Median TSR must: - - -  n use 3M% of that amount of the gross i. e. before tax payment under the STVrS which exceeds 5M% of the Directors gross basic salary at % that time to buy GKN shares shares deferred under the Deferred Historic LTIp awards used different comparator groups and for both the Bonus plan DBp are counted towards this requirement : and LTIp and eSoS the TSr calculation methodology required is different n retain such number of shares received under the LTIp and eSoS as from that required by Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized represents at least 3M% of the gross gain which the Director would Companies and Groups accounts and reports regulations 2MM8 the have realised on the exercise of such an award had the shares been regulations.
The chart above illustrates GKNs TSr compared to the sold on the day of exercise.
median TSr of the relevant comparator group under the LTIp and eSoS in respect of the five most recently completed measurement periods no Non-executive Directors measurement period ended in December 2M1M as no long term incentive It is the Boards policy that non-executive Directors will normally be awards were made in 2MM8.
expected to acquire a holding of GKN shares of a value equivalent to 3M% of one years basic fee within three years of appointment.
For the measurement period under the LTIp that ended on 31 December 2MM5 the comparator group was based on the FTSe 1MM Index less the Satisfaction of share-based incentive arrangements telecommunications, media, technology and financial services sectors Share-based incentive awards are satisfied by the issue of new shares, and comprised 64 companies including GKN.
For the measurement the transfer of shares held in treasury or by shares purchased in the periods that ended on 31 December 2MM6, 2MM7, 2MM8 and 2MM9, they market.
In accordance with the recommendations of the association of comprised tailored peer groups of approximately 4M international British Insurers, the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy automotive and aerospace companies including GKN.
The eSoS awards granted under the LTIp and eSoS and any other employee share comparator groups comprised the FTSe 35M Index constituent companies scheme is restricted to 1M% of the issued ordinary share capital of the on 1 January in the first year of the relevant measurement period.
Company over any 1M year period.
Further, the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy awards granted under the LTIp and eSoS TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETuRN STERLING and any other executive scheme is restricted to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company over any 1M year period.
  at 31 December 2M1M, the Company had used 1.4% of the share capital  available under the 5% in ten years limit and 1.9% of the share capital available under the 1M% in ten years limit.
The DBp will operate using market-purchased shares to be held in an employee Benefit Trust.
Index TSR Source: Hewitt New Bridge Street The chart above is prepared in accordance with the regulations.
It shows the Companys TSr and that of the FTSe 35M Index, based on an initial investment of 1MM, over the five-year period to the end of 2M1M.
The FTSe 35M Index was chosen for this chart as it is a broadly based index which contains more manufacturing and engineering companies than the FTSe 1MM Index.
