NoTeS To THe FINaNCIaL STaTeMeNTS CoNTINUeD 72 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Derivative financial instruments The Group does not trade in derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments including forward foreign currency contracts are used by the Group to manage its exposure to risk associated with the variability in cash flows in relation to both recognised assets or liabilities or forecast transactions.
all derivative financial instruments are measured at the balance sheet date at their fair value.
Where derivative financial instruments are not designated as or not determined to be effective hedges, any gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the income statement.
Where derivative financial instruments are designated as and are effective as cash flow hedges, any gain or loss on remeasurement is held in equity and recycled through the income statement when the designated item is transacted.
Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments no longer designated as effective hedges are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised at their fair value when the nature, characteristics and risks of the derivative are not closely related to the host contract.
Gains and losses arising on the remeasurement of these embedded derivatives at each balance sheet date are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill Goodwill consists of the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the identifiable intangible and tangible assets net of the fair value of the liabilities including contingencies of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations of subsidiaries is recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture is included in the carrying value of the investment.
Where negative goodwill arises, following reassessment of fair values, it is credited to the income statement in the year in which the acquisition is made.
Goodwill is not amortised but tested at least annually for impairment.
Impairments are charged to the income statement.
Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses that arise from the annual assessment of its carrying value.
To the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, determined as the higher of estimated discounted future net cash flows or recoverable amount on a fair value less cost to sell basis, goodwill is written down to the recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
Other intangible assets other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Computer software Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised and categorised as intangible assets.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use.
amortisation is provided on a straight line basis over its useful economic life which is in the range of 3-5 years.
Development costs Where development expenditure results in a new or substantially improved product or process and it is probable that this expenditure will be recovered it is capitalised.
Cost comprises development expenditure and borrowing costs on qualifying assets.
amortisation is charged from the date the asset is available for use.
In aerospace, amortisation is charged over the assets life up to maximum of fifteen years either on a straight line basis or, where sufficient contractual terms exist, a unit of production method is applied.
In automotive, amortisation is charged on a straight line basis over the assets life up to a maximum of seven years.
Capitalised development costs are subject to annual impairment reviews.
research expenditure and development expenditure not qualifying for capitalisation are written off as incurred.
Assets acquired on business combinations non-operating intangible assets Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, which arise from contractual or other legal rights and are not transferable or separable.
on initial recognition they are measured at fair value.
amortisation is charged on a straight line basis to the income statement over their expected useful lives which are: Years Marketing related assets brands and trademarks 3M-5M agreements not to compete Life of agreement Customer related assets order backlog Length of backlog other customer relationships 2-15 Technology based assets 5-1M Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value with due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving items.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out or weighted average cost basis.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and the relevant proportion of works overheads assuming normal levels of activity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated selling costs and costs to complete.
