69 NoTeS To THe FINaNCIaL STaTeMeNTS For THe Year eNDeD 31 DeCeMBer 2M1M 1 Accounting policies and presentation The Groups key accounting policies are summarised below.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements the statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial reporting Standards IFrS as endorsed and adopted for use by the european Union.
These statements have been prepared under the historical cost method except where other measurement bases are required to be applied under IFrS as set out below.
These statements have been prepared using all standards and interpretations required for financial periods beginning 1 January 2M1M.
No standards or interpretations have been adopted before the required implementation date.
During the year the decision was taken to exit the axles business of the former offHighway segment.
The trading losses of this business have been re-analysed from Trading profit to profits and losses on sale or closure of businesses which is included within Gains and losses on changes in Group structure.
There was no impact on operating profit, eps or the balance sheet arising from this restatement.
The impact of this restatement is as follows: as previously reported restated m m Trading profit 129 133 Gains and losses on changes in Group structure 2 2 operating profit 39 39 adjusted performance measures Management profit before tax 83 87 Management profit after tax 72 75 Management basic eps pence 5.5 5.7 Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations as outlined in the audited statements for the year ended 31 December 2MM9, IFrS 3 revised Business combinations, accompanied by IaS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements were identified as likely to impact the reporting of the Groups results, assets and liabilities.
These standards were adopted on 1 January 2M1M.
During the year there has been one business combination and a purchase of a noncontrolling interest.
as a consequence of the revised standards a 1 million gain on revaluation of the Groups existing shareholding has been recorded in Gains and losses on changes in Group structure arising from the business combination with a corresponding increase in goodwill and a 2 million charge to retained earnings arising from the purchase of a non-controlling interest has been recognised which would have previously been recognised as goodwill or non-operating intangibles assets.
In addition, following the amendment to IaS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates reclassification adjustments regarding intragroup funding are no longer required with effect from 1 January 2M1M.
The Group also adopted the following relevant amendments to standards with no material impact on its results, assets and liabilities: annual improvements 2MM9 amendment to IaS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, on eligible hedged items amendment to IFrS 2 Share-based payment, group cash-settled share-based payment transactions IFrIC 12 Service concession arrangements IFrIC 15 arrangements for construction of real estates IFrIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation IFrIC 17 Distributions of non cash assets to owners IFrIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers.
Basis of consolidation The statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group and the Groups share of the results and equity of its joint ventures.
Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, the Company has control through the power to govern financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from their activities.
except as noted below, this power is accompanied by a shareholding of more than 5M% of the voting rights.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included in the Groups results from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
all business combinations are accounted for by the purchase method.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value.
In a single case the Company indirectly owned 1MM% of the voting share capital of an entity but was precluded from exercising either control or joint control by a contractual agreement with the United States Department of Defense.
In accordance with IaS 27 this entity was excluded from the consolidation and treated as an investment.
During 2M1M this contractual agreement changed such that the Group obtained control of the entity.
Further details are contained in note 24.
Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
other non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders earnings and equity attributable to third party shareholders.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
