71 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Revenue recognition continued Other income Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
revenue from dividends is not significant.
Sales and other income is recognised in the income statement when it can be reliably measured and its collectability is reasonably assured.
Property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use and borrowings costs on qualifying assets.
Where freehold and long leasehold properties were carried at a valuation at 23 March 2MMM, these values have been retained as book values and therefore deemed cost at the date of the IFrS transition.
Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet date they are classified as capital work in progress.
Transfers are made to other asset categories when they are available for use.
Depreciation Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or capital work in progress.
In the case of all other categories of property, plant and equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the course of the financial year from the date the asset is available for use.
Depreciation is applied to specific classes of asset so as to reduce them to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, which are reviewed annually.
The range of main rates of depreciation used are: Years Freehold buildings Up to 5M Steel powder production plant 18 General plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 6 to 15 Computers 3 to 5 Commercial vehicles and cars 4 to 5 property, plant and equipment is reviewed at least annually for indications of impairment.
Impairments are charged to the income statement.
Similarly, where property, plant and equipment has been impaired and subsequent reviews demonstrate the recoverable value is in excess of the impaired value an impairment reversal is recorded.
The amount of the reversal cannot exceed the theoretical net book amount at the date of the reversal had the item not been impaired.
Impairment reversals are credited to the income statement against the same line item to which the impairment was previously charged.
Costs attributable to leasehold properties are written off to profit by equal annual instalments over the period of the lease or 5M years, whichever is the shorter.
Leased assets operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement as incurred over the lease term.
Finance leased assets are not significant.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are capitalised as cost on qualifying tangible and intangible fixed asset expenditure.
a qualifying asset is an asset or programme where the period of capitalisation is more than 12 months and the capital value is more than 1M million.
For general borrowings the capitalisation rate is the weighted average of the borrowing costs outstanding during the year.
For specific funding and borrowings the amount capitalised is the actual borrowing cost incurred less any investment income on the temporary investment of those borrowings.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial liabilities are recorded in arrangements where payments, or similar transfers of financial resources, is unavoidable or guaranteed.
In respect of the Groups pension partnership arrangement payments are subject to discretion and can, if certain conditions are met, be avoided.
In this instance, the arrangement is classified as a non-controlling interest.
Borrowings are measured initially at fair value which usually equates to proceeds received and includes transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and overdrafts together with highly liquid investments of less than 9M days maturity.
other financial assets comprise investments with more than 9M days until maturity.
Unless an enforceable right of set-off exists and there is an intention to net settle, the components of cash and cash equivalents are reflected on a gross basis in the balance sheet.
The carrying value of other financial assets and liabilities, including short term receivables and payables, are stated at amortised cost less any impairment provision unless the impact of the time value of money is considered to be material.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
