210 Taxation information for shareholders A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax US shareholders consequences for certain holders of shares and ADR who are citizens This summary only applies to a shareholder a citizen or resident of of the UK or the USA is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is otherwise of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase or ownership subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
Holders are of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as capital assets, is advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax consequences not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not hold shares of the purchase and ownership of their shares or ADR, and the for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is carried consequences under state and local tax laws in the USA and the on in the UK through a branch or agency.
The summary also does implications of the current UK US Income Tax convention.
not address the tax treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADR as underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA UK double part of an integrated investment including a straddle comprised taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax of a share or ADR and one or more other positions, and persons that Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention own directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting stock of GSK.
and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code.
Taxation of dividends The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source UK shareholders dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADR shares as capital assets.
are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the Taxation of dividends US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on UK resident individual shareholders will generally be subject to UK the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain income tax on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual eligible amount of a one ninth dividend tax credit.
The tax credit may be US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% set against the individuals income tax liability in respect of the gross in respect of qualied dividends received before 2013. dividend, but is not repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
For the tax year 2010-11 and Taxation of capital gains subsequent tax years, an additional rate of income tax on dividends Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, is imposed for taxpayers whose income is above 150,000.
UK but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note or other disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term that dividends are generally entitled to exemption from corporation capital gains subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual tax.
If shareholders are in any doubt as to their position, they holders if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
should consult their own professional advisers.
Information reporting and backup withholding Taxation of capital gains Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial of shares or ADR.
For disposals by individuals and subject to the intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identication ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such number and certies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
shareholders taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic rate Non-US holders generally are not subject to information reporting or income tax limit.
In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing on backup withholding, but may be required to provide a certication a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a of their non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any combination of both rates.
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against to an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains a holders US federal income tax liability provided the required to the extent that such gains arise due to ination.
Indexation information is furnished to the IRS.
allowance may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an Estate and gift taxes allowable loss.
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not Inheritance tax generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the Stamp duty transfer of shares or ADR.
Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholders estate is reduced as a result UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full be payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian market value.
or depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price if issued, the amount of any consideration provided if transferred on sale, or their value If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both UK inheritance if transferred for no consideration.
tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to against tax payable in the UK.
No UK stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is executed and Stamp duty remains at all times outside the UK.
Any stamp duty on the transfer of UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate the transfer.
Any sale of the underlying shares would, subject to certain of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information P192P212
