Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 211 Glossary of terms Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of xed assets that delay the charging and payment of tax.
The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares ADS Listed on the New York Stock Exchange: represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies, at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Dened benefit plan Pension plan with specic employee benets, often called final salary scheme.
Dened contribution plan Pension plan with specic contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible xed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable.
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and or exercises control.
