FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Matters on which we are required to report by exception The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 3 July 2010, which We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where comprise the parent company balance sheet and related notes 1 to 14. the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the parent company financial statements and the part of the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the with the accounting records and returns: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone law are not made: or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for we have not received all the information and explanations our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Other matter As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, set We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of The out on page 126, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 3 July 2010. the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Debbie O Hanlon Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements Newcastle upon Tyne An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 1 September 2010 assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 3 July 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
