Directors Remuneration Report continued  Details of the executive directors service contracts or letters of appointment are as follows: Executive Directors Kennedy McMeikan has a service contract with the Company dated 8 April 2008.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 June 2008.
Richard Hutton has a service contract with the Company dated 7 April 2006.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 January 1998.
Raymond Reynolds has a service contract with the Company dated 18 December 2006.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 December 1986.
In addition to their basic salaries, each is entitled to participate in the Companys profit sharing scheme available to all employees.
They are also entitled to additional benefits including membership of the company pension scheme, the use of a motor car, private medical insurance, life assurance, permanent health insurance and a contribution towards telephone expenses.
Non-Executive Directors In order to ensure that no director is involved in deciding his her own remuneration, the fees payable to nonexecutive directors other than the Chairman are set, after consultation with the Chairman, by a committee of the Board consisting only of the executive directors Kennedy McMeikan, Richard Hutton and Raymond Reynolds who periodically seek advice from external consultants as to the appropriate market rates applicable.
Such advice was last obtained in 2009 from Monks Partnership.
An increase in fees of 2.2% was awarded to the Committee Chairman and the non-executive directors, effective January 2011.
This was applied in line with the award given to all employees across the business and did not reflect the average growth in fees across the market.
The basic non-executive fees for 2011 are 37,814 per annum, including membership of committee s and an additional 5,621 for Chairmanship of the Audit or Remuneration Committee s. The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
However, each of them does have a letter of appointment.
These are dated 25 February 2002 for Derek Netherton, 1 December 2003 for Bob Bennett, 1 March 2005 for Julie Baddeley, 21 February 2008 for Roger Whiteside and 31 March 2009 for Iain Ferguson.
The terms of appointment of each non-executive director require that they seek re-election on a regular basis in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company see above.
The fees payable to the non-executive directors cover all normal duties.
In exceptional circumstances, where significant additional time commitment is required, the Board or a duly authorised committee may award additional fees.
No right of compensation exists where the office is terminated, for whatever reason.
