 continued s Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
t  i Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable on cash balances and foreign exchange movements relating to overseas bank accounts.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest method.
ii Finance expenses Finance expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings and related foreign exchange movements on any Euro bank borrowings.
u Incometax Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences relating to the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit are not provided for, other than in a business combination.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related deferred tax benefit will be realised.
v  The Company continuously strives to improve its products and processes through technical and other innovation.
Such expenditure is typically expensed to the income statement as the related intellectual property is not capable of being formalised.
