Due to the changes in the annual allowance for tax relief on pensions, effective from 6th April 2011, the Committee has decided to allow the executive directors a degree of flexibility with regards to how they receive their pension contribution, with the principle that there should be no additional charge borne by the Company.
Should the executive directors wish to cap their pension contribution at 50,000, in line with the new annual allowance, they can do so and the balance of this contribution will be paid as a supplement in addition to their salary on a monthly basis.
This supplement will be subject to tax and NI.
The employers NI charge will be borne by the executive director to ensure there are no additional charges to the Company.
The executive directors will be able to make this choice on an annual basis.
The remuneration adjustment will be disclosed in the Remuneration Report in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
 The Committee has introduced Share Retention Guidelines for executive directors.
These are effective from 1 January 2011 and require each executive director to build up a shareholding of 100% of their base salary in a five year period through shares matured and granted via the LTIP or PSP and a percentage of bonus payment to be given as shares at the discretion of the Committee or chosen to be taken as shares by the executive director.
This will be reviewed by the Committee in March each year.
 The Companys policy on the duration of directors contracts is that: the Chief Executives service contract is terminable on one years notice served by either the Company or the director: other executive directors service contracts are terminable on one years notice served by the Company or by six months notice served by the director: future executive directors will be engaged on terms necessary to secure individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at that time: non-executive directors are appointed subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which require them to retire and to seek re-election at the first AGM after appointment.
Any non-executive director who has served on the Board for over nine years must seek re-election annually.
Each year one half of the remaining directors, being those who have been longest in office since last re-election, and any other director who has not been elected or re-elected at either of the two preceding AGMs, must retire and seek re-election.
The Nominations Committee advises the Board as to whether a particular director, whose turn it is to retire by rotation, should be nominated for re-election: and it is the Companys policy to seek mitigation of entitlements on termination and the Company does not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in respect of notice to which a director is entitled.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to compensation for early termination of their appointments prior to the date on which they would next be due to retire by rotation, or if not re-appointed at such time.
