Notes to the consolidated accounts  Greggs plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group accounts consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company accounts present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the directors on 16 March 2011. a  Both the Parent Company accounts and the Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
On publishing the Parent Company accounts here together with the Group accounts, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved accounts.
b Basisofpreparation The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand, and are prepared on the historical cost basis.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the directors report and business review on pages 6 to 31.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Executives report on pages 8 to 11.
In addition note 2 to the accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and the business continues to be strongly cash generative.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
The Group chose not to restate business combinations prior to the transition date on an IFRS basis, as no significant acquisitions had taken place during the previous 10 years.
The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against reserves.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group and to all years presented in these consolidated accounts and are unchanged from previous years.
From 3 January 2010 the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group: Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items this amendment clarifies the existing principles that determine whether specific risks or portions of cash flows are eligible for designation in a hedging relationship: Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations this standard significantly changed the way in which business combinations are accounted for.
This change will only impact the Company if an acquisition takes place in the future.
Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements the amendment reflects changes to the accounting for non-controlling interest.
The adoption of the above has not had a significant impact on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
