The comparator group used in connection with the PSP was established following a comprehensive review, including advice taken from Monks, and consists of 28 companies who are General Retailers, Food Producers Manufacturers or Leisure Companies and who were considered by the Remuneration Committee to be the most appropriate from the FTSE 250.
They are: Brown N Group Kesa Electricals Carpetright Marston's Cranswick Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Dairy Crest Mitchells & Butlers Debenhams Mothercare Dignity Northern Foods Domino's Pizza Premier Foods DSG International Rank Group Dunelm Group Restaurant Group Game Group Robert Wiseman Dairies Greene King Sports Direct Intl.
Halfords Group Tate & Lyle HMV Group Wetherspoon JD Inchcape WH Smith These targets and the comparator group will remain in place for the 2011 scheme.
 LTIP Under this scheme, the Committee had discretion to invite the participants including executive directors to utilise a proportion not more than 50% of their post tax annual bonus including profit share to acquire shares in the Company and then grant nil cost options to match the pre-tax value of the sum invested.
These nil cost options were exercisable normally after three years, and only if certain performance criteria have been met.
For the award in 2008 the performance targets were set at average growth in earnings per share of 3% above the RPI for a 1:1 match and 10% above the RPI for a 2:1 match, providing a further stretch in order to achieve the maximum award.
Following the three year performance period the conditions have been met to the extent that a 1.007:1 match will be awarded resulting in options over 14,329 shares becoming excercisable by Richard Hutton and over 12,637 shares by Raymond Reynolds.
Given the very low level of bonus payments awarded following the year 2008, the Committee did not offer participation in this LTIP in 2009.
As previously outlined the Performance Share Plan has replaced this LTIP from 2010, and therefore the Committee will offer no further participation in this previous scheme.
Executive Share Option Scheme There have also been occasional grants to the executive directors of options over shares in the Company, pursuant to one or more of the share option schemes operated through the Committee.
These include both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved long-term share incentive schemes, designed to encourage the executive directors and other employees to hold shares in the Company and to enhance share values.
No such awards were granted in 2010.
