Notes to the consolidated accounts continued  continued b Basisofpreparation continued The preparation of financial information in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
The key estimates and judgements that have the most significant impact on the accounts are as follows: Lease classification Judgement has to be applied as to whether the Groups shop leases are operating leases or finance leases see note 22 for how this is determined.
Post retirement benefits The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rate, mortality rates and expected return on scheme assets.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future years.
The key assumptions made for 2010 are given in note 19.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For example, bakery equipment may be impaired if it is no longer in use and or shop fittings may be impaired if sales in that shop fall.
When a review for impairment is conducted the recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculations which include managements estimates of future cash flows generated by the assets and an appropriate discount rate.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to the residual values over their estimated useful lives, both of which require managements judgement see accounting policy g. Provisions Provision is required in respect of closed shops for which the Group has on-going lease commitments.
Management exercise judgement as to whether the shop will be sublet to a third party taking into account current market conditions and, if so, for how long and at what rent, in order to estimate the future net holding cost to the Group until the lease can be exited.
This estimate is then discounted where the impact would be material at a rate that reflects the current time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
In respect of our exit from the Belgian operation in 2008 a provision remains for the potential recourse of leases taken over by the new owner.
c Basisofconsolidation The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2011.
The comparative period is the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2010. i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
