 continued ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
d Exceptionalitems Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1. e Foreigncurrency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
f Intangibleassets The Groups only intangible asset is accounting software which is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are five years.
g Property, plantandequipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy k. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
ii Subsequent costs The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the component will flow to the Group, and its costs can be measured reliably.
The carrying value of the replaced component is derecognised.
The costs of the day to day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit and loss as incurred.
