Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Auditors The Audit Committee has reviewed Auditor independence and By order of the Board whether, and is satisfied that, the policy on the use of the Jonathan D Jowett Companys auditors, KPMG Audit auditors for non-audit work Plc, continue to be objective and Company Secretary independent of the Company.
Greggs plc CRN 502851 There are strict policies and KPMG Audit Plc does perform Fernwood House procedures in place to control non-audit services for the Group Clayton Road the use of external auditors in the but the Audit Committee is satisfied Jesmond provision of non-audit services.
that its objectivity is not impaired Newcastle upon Tyne The Audit Committee keeps under by such work.
In 2010, non audit NE2 1TL review all non-audit services fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and related KPMG operations amounted provided by the external auditors 16 March 2011 to 151,000 and related principally in order to seek to ensure that to taxation compliance services and their independence and objectivity pension scheme audits.
The Committee recognises that there Disclosure of information are situations where it is in the Companys best interests to use to auditors the services of its external auditors Each of the directors who held for non-audit work but manages office at the date of approval of such appointments and will not this directors report confirms that, allow any non-audit work that so far as he she is individually might, in the Committees opinion, aware, there is no relevant audit impair the auditors objectivity or information of which the Companys independence.
In addition, the auditors are unaware: and that Audit Committee ensures that he she has taken all the steps the external auditors have their that he she ought to have taken own policies and are subject to as a director to make himself professional standards designed herself aware of any relevant audit to safeguard their independence information and to establish that the as auditors.
The Audit Committee Companys auditors are aware of has adopted a policy under which that information.
all use of the external auditors for non-audit work must be reported Reappointment of auditors to and approved by the Committee and the aggregate of such fees will In accordance with Section 489 normally be less than 100 per cent of the Companies Act 2006, a of the audit fee.
In circumstances resolution for the re-appointment where the Committee believes that of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of it is right to authorise non-audit fees the Company will be proposed at in excess of this limit the Committee the forthcoming Annual General will approve such expenditure in Meeting.
advance of it being committed and provide an explanation to shareholders in the next directors report.
