Statement of Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the directors report, which Statement of Directors keeping adequate accounting incorporates the Chairmans responsibilities in respect records that are sufficient to show statement, the Chief Executives of the Annual Report and and explain the Parent Companys report and the Corporate Social Accounts transactions and disclose with Responsibility statement include reasonable accuracy at any time a fair review of the development The directors are responsible for the financial position of the Parent and performance of the business preparing the Annual Report and Company and enable them to and the position of the Company the Group and Parent Company ensure that its accounts comply and the undertakings included accounts in accordance with with the Companies Act 2006. in the consolidation taken as a applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility for whole, together with a description Company law requires the directors taking such steps as are reasonably of the principal risks and to prepare Group and Parent open to them to safeguard the uncertainties that they face.
Company accounts for each assets of the Group and to financial year.
Under that law they prevent and detect fraud and other are required to prepare the Group irregularities.
K. McMeikan accounts in accordance with R. J. Hutton IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Under applicable law and 16 March 2011 applicable law and have elected regulations, the directors are to prepare the Parent Company also responsible for preparing accounts on the same basis.
a directors report, Directors Remuneration Report and Under company law the directors Corporate Governance Statement must not approve the accounts that complies with that law and unless they are satisfied that they those regulations.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent The directors are responsible for Company and of their profit or loss the maintenance and integrity for that period.
In preparing each of the corporate and financial of the Group and Parent Company information included on the accounts, the directors are required Companys website.
Legislation in to: the UK governing the preparation select suitable accounting and dissemination of accounts policies and then apply them may differ from legislation in other consistently: jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates The directors confirm that to the that are reasonable and prudent: best of their knowledge: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with the accounts, prepared in IFRSs as adopted by the EU: accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give prepare the accounts on the a true and fair view of the assets, going concern basis unless it is liabilities, financial position and inappropriate to presume that the profit of the Company and the Group and the Parent Company undertakings included in the will continue in business.
consolidation taken as a whole: and 32
