Directors Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
This report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared.
This report has, therefore, been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unauditedinformation The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee sets the remuneration and terms of appointment of the executive directors and the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
The committee met five times during 2010 with each member attending as follows: Number of meetings held whilst Number of meetings attended Name a Committee member by a Committee member Julie Baddeley 5 5 Bob Bennett 5 5 Roger Whiteside 5 5 Iain Ferguson 5 5 At these meetings, amongst other items, the Committee considered: introduction of a Share Retention Policy for executive directors: setting of objectives for the executive directors ensuring risk forms a key part of these: and measures and targets to ensure that executive directors were not incentivised to take inappropriate levels of risk.
In addition, each year the Committee considers Greggs total remuneration policy for executive directors in the context of market and best practice and levels of remuneration throughout the Company.
Andrew Davison Company Secretary until June 2010, Jonathan Jowett Company Secretary and General Counsel from June 2010, Nicola Bailey Group People Director until March 2010 and Roisin Currie Group People Director from January 2010 have supported the Committee in their deliberations, along with external consultants, PWC.
 The Committees policy is to provide competitive remuneration packages that will attract, retain and motivate individuals with appropriate skills and experience with the incentive to add sustainable long-term growth and value that will best serve the interests of the Company, its shareholders, its employees and customers.
Basic salaries and total packages are set to reflect the market.
They are regularly benchmarked by external consultants against the median level payments made to executives in similar roles in companies of comparative size, sector and complexity which exercise was last conducted by Monks Partnership in 2009 and will be undertaken again in 2011.
The Committee seeks to structure bonus arrangements that will align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders.
The Committee considers corporate performance on risk, governance, environmental and social issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
