Directors Remuneration Report continued In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the total number of new shares and shares held in treasury over which the Company may grant options is limited and the Company has chosen to allocate a significant proportion of the shares available to the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme open to all employees, including executive directors.
Any future grants of executive share options to executive directors will be based upon the need to secure individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at the date of appointment or to help to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, especially if the LTIP or PSP is not available to a particular individual, or where the Committee considers it appropriate.
The above policies enable the executive directors to receive potentially significant benefits in addition to their basic salaries, but only if value has been created for shareholders.
The Committee considers that, although the non-performance related elements of the executive directors remuneration packages are substantial, the performance related elements are significant in terms of providing motivation to the executive directors to improve shareholder value.
 The performance conditions attaching to share options granted to the executive directors under the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes have varied according to the date of grant.
Such conditions are set by the Committee to establish challenging performance objectives linked to shareholder return.
Executive directors are not eligible to have executive share options granted in the same year as participation in the PSP.
The Committee intends that if any executive share options are granted in the future, performance conditions will continue to be settled on this basis.
Details of the performance conditions for options currently outstanding are set out in the section headed Share Options below.
Whether or not performance conditions attached to share options have been met is tested by the Committee, which compares the actual performance of the Company with relevant published statistics and, if necessary, obtains advice from external consultants in order to reach its conclusion.
No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant to the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is available for all employees.
The principal purpose of this scheme is to encourage employees at all levels within the Company to participate in, and to understand better, the growth in value of the Company and the rules of that scheme require that all options granted must be on the same terms.
Performance criteria in relation to the performance based annual cash bonuses payable to the executive directors are set by the Committee each year in accordance with the general remuneration policy set out above.
PolicyonPensions Until the scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 April 2008, executive directors earned pension benefits under the Greggs 1978 Retirement & Death Benefit Scheme, the Companys defined benefit scheme.
This scheme, which required a contribution of 6.6% of pensionable salaries from members, provided for up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary, dependant on length of pensionable service.
Since 1 April 2008, the Company has paid contributions to the Companys money purchase defined contribution pension schemes for all executive directors.
