Notes to the consolidated accounts continued  continued o Employeebenefits continued When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group and Company recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in the year in which they occur in the statement of changes in equity.
iii Sharebased payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
For options granted before 7 November 2002 the recognition and measurement principles of IFRS 2 have not been applied in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1.
In addition deferred taxation has not been recognised on these options but is accounted for as current tax when it arises.
p Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
i Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
ii Closed shops Provision is made for vacant and partly sublet properties for the shorter of the remaining period of the lease and the period until, in the directors opinion, they will be able to exit the lease commitment.
Significant assumptions are applied in making these calculations and such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
q Revenue i Goods sold Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised as income on receipt of cash and is stated after deduction of discounts, promotions and value added taxation.
r Governmentgrants Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is a reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement over the useful life of the asset.
