Halfords Group plc Online version 99 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com financials Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception stage, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items during the period for which the hedge is designated and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80%125%.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast purchase that is hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from other comprehensive income and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in other comprehensive income at that time remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than twelve months or as a current asset or liability, if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months.
Fair value estimation The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the weighted average cost principle and includes expenditure incurred in inventories, adjusted for rebates, and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location.
Impairment of assets Intangible assets that are attributed an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Other tangible and intangible assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are Grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above.
Borrowings and borrowing costs All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Income is recognised, as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective interest rate method.
Finance cost comprises interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions and the cost of forward exchange contracts.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
Previously the Group immediately recognised all borrowing costs as an expense.
This had no impact on either the current or preceding year.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
