48 Business Review We control costs, both through cross-functional initiatives as well a culture of cost awareness that provides a constant stream of improvement ideas.
Central Europe During 2009 the Group progressed a key initiative to reconfigure its logistics infrastructure, replacing Following a strategic review, the Board decided to our existing three Distribution Centres.
Central to close the seven Halfords stores in Central Europe, the Groups new infrastructure is a new 320,000 sq the costs and impact of which are described in the ft national distribution centre DC, at Coventry, Finance Directors report.
Despite an improvement which is our centre of gravity.
This facility will in recent performance and the possibility that the commence operation in June 2010 and will become region could still prove attractive in the longer term, fully operational in September.
The new DC is the continuing recession has severely limited the equipped with modern logistics technology such availability of suitable properties and therefore the as radio frequency scanning and will ensure more opportunity to move the operation to a viable scale in efficient delivery of stock to Halfords stores.
reconfiguration will deliver annualised cost savings Although an international strategy clearly represents in excess of 4m, including rent savings, transport an opportunity for future growth, the Board has reductions and labour efficiencies.
The final element decided that management time and financial resource of our revised logistics configuration will be a single are better devoted, at the present time, to the growth warehouse, in Redditch, dedicated to cycles.
opportunities available in the core UK market.
Following the initial improvements made to store 3.
ONGOING FOCUS ON COST CONTROL colleague rotas in the final quarter of the 2009 financial year, a further efficiency programme in We are committed to an ongoing focus on cost stores has been implemented which will result in control.
This ensures efficient use of resources, the improved colleague availability and better service for correct operating base for the prevailing economic our customers.
These improvements will, however, environment and provides headroom to fund strategic be achieved with a net reduction in colleague hours investments in future growth.
We control costs, both as resource is removed from low footfall periods and through cross-functional initiatives as well a culture of processes are made more efficient.
The programme cost awareness that provides a constant stream of has realigned store grades, rostering and schedules improvement ideas.
across the store, week and network.
The changes, We continue to increase the level of products sourced which have impacted, in some way, the majority of directly from manufacturers across Asia.
Our Far store-based colleagues mean we can also provide East team operate an agile sourcing model, moving clearer career paths for colleagues, strengthening our manufacture, of products designed by the Groups position in the recruitment market.
These changes will category management resource in the UK, between also differentiate us from our competitors so we are in regions and countries as cost and duty profiles a strong position to further develop our business and change.
They also control all aspects of the supply continue to grow sales and operating profit.
chain to eliminate unnecessary costs in transport, The reduced operating profit stimulus from the shipping and stock holding and ensure a seamless slowdown in new store openings has been and coordination with our store operations.
is anticipated to be mitigated in the future by the favourable impact of rental negotiations at lease renewal regears.
From 2012 onward the Group has lease maturities at an average of 25 per annum where the strength of the Halfords covenant, together with reduced demand for such space, provides opportunity for either reduced headline rent or landlord investment for example in the form of a rent free period in order to secure continuity of tenure.
Naturally, our focus on cost control continues and we have identified a number of further areas, including the regear opportunity outlined above, that we plan to target in the current financial year.
