66 Corporate Governance The Board of Halfords Group plc is responsible for determining the Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms normally long-term direction and strategy of the Group in a framework of three years and their Terms and Conditions of Appointment are sound and robust corporate governance.
The Board is committed available on the Groups website halfordscompany.
They are to high standards of corporate governance not only in the areas of subject to reappointment under the Companys Articles of Association accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution and subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of to its business strategy.
The Board believes in conducting the Groups a Director.
affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest The Board has formally adopted an induction programme for new ethical standards in its business dealings.
Directors, which will be tailored to each new Director who joins the Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Board and includes briefings regarding the activities of the Group and visits to operational sites.
Documentation and training on their duties as The Directors consider that the Group has applied the principles and Directors are also available to all Directors.
All Directors are members complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code of the Deloitte Academy, a training resource that provides support and 2006 the Code for the financial period to 2 April 2010.
This report guidance to Boards, individual directors and company secretaries.
describes how the Group has complied with the Code.
In addition, Directors are also informed regularly on relevant material Board Structure, Directors and their interests changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business.
All The Board is currently composed of seven members, consisting of Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company a non-executive chairman, three non-executive Directors and three Secretary, who is also responsible for advising the Board on all executive Directors.
Dennis Millard was appointed Chairman on governance matters.
28 May 2009, following an executive search process.
Nigel Wilson as The Companys Articles of Association require Directors appointed the Companys Senior Independent Director held the position of acting by the Board during the year to retire and offer themselves for Chairman from 22 August 2008 until 28 May 2009. reappointment at the first AGM following their appointment.
No Dennis Millard was considered on appointment to meet the Directors have been appointed since the last AGM.
The articles also independence criteria as set out in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Code and require that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every continued with his existing commitments as disclosed on page 61. three years.
Following the publication of the revised Combined Code on 28 May 2010, the Board has agreed that all Directors will stand for The other non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be re-election at the AGM on 27 July 2010. independent in character and judgement and within the definition of the Code.
Accordingly, no individual or group of individuals dominates the Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests Boards decision-making and the requirement of the Combined Code of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are independent non-executive Directors is satisfied.
At the same time in shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 80.
The accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals have been Directors have wide experience and expertise and their biographical appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive respectively details are given on pages 60 and 61. as described above and job descriptions delineating a clear division of In response to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 introduced responsibilities between the two have been compiled and issued.
in October 2008, each Director has notified the Company of any The Chairman and the non-executive Directors contribute external situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct or indirect expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such as interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the marketing, customer and consumer focus, corporate finance, general Company a situational conflict.
These interests were considered and finance and corporate governance.
They also contribute independent approved by the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations, and assist in the Association and each Director was informed of the authorisation and development of the Companys strategy, scrutiny of the performance the terms on which it was given.
All Directors are aware of the need of management in meeting agreed goals and targets and satisfying to consult with the Company Secretary regarding any further possible themselves of the integrity of the Companys internal controls and risk situational conflict that may arise so that prior consideration can be management systems.
The Board believes that all of the Directors given by the Board to whether or not such conflict will be approved.
devote sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
The following Directors held office during the financial period to 2 April 2010: Designation Appointment Reappointment date Dennis Millard Chairman Appointed 28 May 2009 David Wild Chief Executive Officer 29 July 2009 Nick Wharton Finance Director 29 July 2009 Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director 29 July 2009 Nigel Wilson Senior Independent Director 23 July 2008 Keith Harris Non-executive Director 23 July 2008 Bill Ronald Non-executive Director 29 July 2009 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7
