64 Directors Report Directors indemnities Major Shareholders Article 141 the Companys Articles of Association provides that every At 30 April 2010, the Companys share register of substantial Director is entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company shareholdings showed the following interests in three per cent or more against all costs and liabilities incurred by him in the execution of his of the Companys issued ordinary shares: duties or the exercise of his powers or otherwise in connection with Number of % of his duties, powers or office including any liability incurred by him in Holder shares issued shares defending any proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything Bank of New York Mellon 16,071,282 7.6% done or omitted to have been done or omitted by him as an officer of Artemis Investment Management Ltd. 15,779,497 7.5% the Company and in which judgement is given in his favour or in which M & G Investment Management Ltd. 11,833,108 5.6% he is acquitted.
BlackRock Advisors 10,297,666 4.9% During the year the Company maintained liability insurance for its Capital Institutional Group 8,817,100 4.2% Directors and officers.
The Directors of the Company, and the Directors Ameriprise Financial 8,614,568 4.1% of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit of an indemnity L&G Investment Management Ltd. UK 8,262,839 3.9% provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The indemnity Rathbone Investment Management Ltd. 8,080,177 3.8% provision, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity provision as Ignis Asset Management Limited 6,956,301 3.3% defined by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, has been in force throughout the year.
The Takeover Directive Directors responsibilities As at 2 April 2010 and 3 April 2009, the Companys authorised share The statement of Directors responsibilities in preparing the Annual capital was 2,950,000 divided into 295,000,000 ordinary shares of Report and the Financial Statements can be found on page 88 of the 1p each nominal value ordinary shares.
On 2 April 2010 there were Annual Report.
These ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Disclosure of information to Auditors The Directors of the Group have taken all the steps that they ought All ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and the to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of rights to receive dividends.
Shares acquired through Company share any information needed by the Groups Auditors in connection with schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have preparing their report and to establish that the Auditors are aware of no special rights.
that information and so far as the Directors are aware there is no such The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware.
The Directors Annual report and financial statements: to attend and speak at general are responsible for maintaining the integrity of financial information meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
which includes the Annual Report, together with other financial statements, presentations and announcements on the Groups website There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any halfordscompany.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of other jurisdictions.
Supplier payment policy There are no known arrangements under which the financial rights are The Group does not follow any formal code or standard on payment held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known practice, but agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
when orders for goods and services are placed, and includes the The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are relevant terms in contracts, where appropriate.
These arrangements contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors may be are adhered to when making payments, subject to the terms and appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A conditions being met by suppliers.
The number of trade creditor days Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next AGM.
outstanding at the period end for the Group was 49 days 2009: 39 At each AGM one-third of the Directors rounded down will retire by days.
The Company is a holding company and had no trade creditors rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The Directors to retire will be at the end of the financial year.
those who wish to retire and those who have been longest in office Contractual or other arrangements since their last appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire within a three-year period.
Following the publication of a The Directors consider that there are no contractual or other revised Combined Code on 28 May 2010, the Board has agreed that all arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM on 27 July 2010. influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its value.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
