Halfords Group plc Online version 49 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview Pictured: In leveraging the Halfords brand in multi-channel, our strategy is to seamlessly integrate halfords.
com with our store network.
Our strong brand, leading internet site and focus on developing this channel have led us to grow our online business at twice the average market rate this year.
LEVERAGING THE HALFORDS BRAND IN To cater for all demands we have introduced 3 ways MULTI-CHANNEL to shop online The Internet is changing the way that our customers 1.
Reserve and Collect a service where products shop and providing us with new opportunities to grow researched online are reserved for collection at our business.
Our strong brand, leading Internet site a nearby store.
Eighty per cent of online sales and focus on developing this channel have led us to now use this channel and more than 1.5 million grow our online business at twice the average market products have been sold via this route.
Our online sales currently represent 2.
Order and Collect allows customers to approximately 6% of Halfords Retail overall sales and order products from our more extensive online we have ambitious plans to increase this share.
catalogue and have it delivered to their local store Our strategy is to seamlessly integrate halfords.
com for collection free of charge.
and store operations and, following the introduction 3.
Direct delivery products ordered online are of a dedicated website in ROI in early 2009, all of delivered direct to customers homes.
our retail territories are so structured.
Whether for normally ranged products or for our increasing In seeking to identify further innovative and convenient number of extended ranges held outside of stores, ways in which customers can interact with Halfords this intent mirrors our customer feedback, which tells Retail, we also launched a Text and Reserve service us they like the convenience of buying online but so customers can text their car registration to us, to also want to visit our stores for expert advice and identify and reserve the correct replacement product recommendation and added value services such for their vehicle.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
