46 Business Review Our direct sourcing capabilities allow us to provide customers with great value offers like our market leading family tent pack at 99.99.
Camping had another successful year with record In advance of driving awareness we invested in sales in key lines enabling a clean stock exit and colleague training, availability and visibility to ensure achieving further gains in market share.
Our direct customer fitting requirements were met in real sourcing capabilities allow us to provide customers time.
Our strategy to grow awareness of our fitting with great value offers e. g. like our market leading capability ensured all advertising contains reference family tent pack at 99.99.
In the current financial to wefit, together with a dedicated Autumn radio year we are building on this success by doubling the campaign.
This holistic approach proved successful number of lines of outdoor leisure products stocked with penetration uplifts of 50% in our core 3 Bs, such both in-store and via halfords.
com and with a further that approximately 20% of all batteries, bulbs and range expansion with brands including Gelert and wiper blades that are sold are also fitted by Halfords Wild Country on offer.
The Group continues to grow its share in the child seat While we are encouraged by the annualised run rate market, through a clear focus on ranging the leading of c. 1.7 million wefit jobs, we are confident in further brands and innovative products, such as ISOFIX seats.
However, such progress This range breadth is further enhanced online and requires continued strategic investment across supported, in store, by expert advice and fitting where the business to ensure that colleague capability is over 2,000 colleagues are professionally trained and maintained and has included in 2009 an intense accredited by RoSPA to fit child seats to cars.
training programme for our 5,000 in-store experts to equip them with the latest technical product details We have trialled and launched a new range of and sales skills.
mobility aids, including scooters, wheelchairs and walking aids.
The mobility market is valued at an 2.
INVESTING IN THE STORE PORTFOLIO estimated 500m in the UK and is set to grow with The Group operates through two discrete store one in three people in the UK forecast to be over chains: 60 years by 2024.
In addition, there are currently 9 million permanently or temporarily disabled people in 1 Halfords Retail Britain, many of whom also need mobility aids.
With The quality and layout of Halfords Retail 462 store a shortage of accessible retail outlets, selling mobility estate is a key element of our customer proposition products at competitive prices, this initiative has been and a source of competitive advantage.
This national welcomed by customers and mobility represents a scale also supports our position as the store of further opportunity for Halfords as a natural extension first choice, as 90% of our customers are with a of our travel solution ranges.
20-minute journey of one of our stores.
Service Accordingly, the Groups strategic focus remains in Expert knowledge, advice and service remain at the the development and progressive refurbishment of the heart of the Halfords customer offer and specifically two formats of choice, the superstore and the smaller through fitting, differentiates and defends the Halfords format Compact store.
Compact stores provide a offer and generates attractive levels of return.
comprehensive Halfords offer to smaller catchments, carrying some 6,000 of the 10,000 lines available Recognising that the economic outlook in 2009 within an average superstore.
made such a value proposition more attractive, we set stretching targets to increase awareness, uptake 2 Nationwide and service revenue.
While all product categories The Group also operates a national presence from include a core service element, for example Bike Care its 224 Autocentres where the strategic focus is on Plan, Free Bike Build webuild and 6 week service expanding the chain.
wecheck within cycling and Set-up and Demo within technology, the foundation of the proposition remains, wefit being the on-demand fitting of Car Bulbs, Windscreen Blades and Batteries.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 47 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview Pictured: Expert knowledge, advice and service remain at the heart of the Halfords customer offer.
The Group remains confident that there is a long-term opportunity to grow the retail store portfolio in the UK and ROI.
United Kingdom & Republic of Ireland The Group is confident that there is a long-term UK & ROI opportunity to grow the retail store portfolio in the UK and ROI and our intention is to open five to ten Halfords Retail operates from 462 stores in the UK stores in the UK in the current financial year.
The lack and ROI including 403 superstores, 26 compact of quality, new development and the poor quality of stores, together with 33 small format Metro stores recycled property, however, provides a challenge in located on busy high streets where no suitable edge developing new store opportunities.
of town retail opportunity is locally available.
During the year, excluding the closure of bikehut stores, the In addition to new stores, Halfords Retail continues Group increased its UK and ROI portfolio by four to invest in its existing estate to ensure that it remains stores, having opened ten stores and closed six, contemporary and reflects the latest store navigation mainly Metro, stores.
signposting and the latest product merchandising.
During the year 48 stores were refurbished.
At the end of the year 240 stores traded with a mezzanine and we believe a further 100 stores With the acquisition of Nationwide the Group have potential for conversion.
The mezzanine is a operates garage servicing and auto repair from 224 highly cost-effective route to space expansion.
The Group has identified an opportunity also enhances the store environment by creating a to expand the autocentre chain with a further spacious, clearly defined area where we can display 200 centres in the medium term, with 80 centres our cycle ranges for maximum impact.
anticipated to open in the next three years.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
