98 Accounting Policies Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided to write off the cost, less residual value, on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives as follows: Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: Leasehold premises with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the period of the lease to a maximum of 25 years: Motor vehicles are depreciated over 3 years: Fixtures, fittings and equipment are depreciated over 4 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: Computer equipment is depreciated over 3 years: and Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is expensed to the income statement within operating expenses.
Residual values, remaining useful economic lives and depreciation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable net assets of a subsidiary undertaking acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair value is attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value.
The Group has significant carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as brands, customer relationships and favourable leases following the acquisition of Nationwide Autocentres.
Amortised intangible and tangible assets are tested for impairment where events show an indication of impairment.
The impairment test involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
The Group took the exemption available under IFRS 1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for business combinations occurring before 3 April 2004.
The carrying value of goodwill at 2 April 2004 under UK GAAP was deemed to be cost at 3 April 2004.
Costs that are directly associated with identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year are recognised as intangible assets.
These intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated based on the cost of the asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual value and is expensed to the income statement within operating expenses.
Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, from the date that they are available for use, since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Brand names and trademarks 10 to 20 years: Customer relationships 5 to 15 years: Favourable leases over the term of the lease: and Software 3 to 5 years.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if appropriate.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are used to manage risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to the purchase of overseas sourced products.
The Group uses the derivatives to hedge highly probable forecast transactions and therefore the instruments are designated as cash flow hedges.
