96 Accounting Policies General information Halfords Group plc is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the period ended 2 April 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Halfords Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings together the Group are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except where International Financial Reporting Standards require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations relate to financial instruments IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and share-based payments IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
The Group has a syndicated five-year term facility totalling 300m that provides the Group with committed bank facilities until July 2011.
The Board is currently reviewing, with the Groups Brokers, the optimal capital structure for the enlarged Group that will provide the necessary flexible funding to deliver its strategic agenda.
The Board envisages that renewed debt facilities will be agreed and in place in the second half of the financial year ended 1 April 2011.
The accounts of the Group are prepared for the period up to the Friday closest to 31 March each year.
Consequently, the financial statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks to 2 April 2010, whilst the comparative period covered the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles requires the use of accounting estimates and management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
These judgements and estimates are based on historical experience and managements best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions under review and the actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are, where necessary, disclosed separately.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
All subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The financial statements of all subsidiary undertakings are prepared to the same reporting date as the Company.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 2 April 2010 are as follows: Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity % Ownership of ordinary shares Halfords Holdings 2006 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Finance Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Limited Retailing of auto parts, accessories, cycles and cycle accessories 100 Halfords Investments 2010 LP Intermediate holding partnership Nationwide Autocentres Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Nationwide Autocentres Limited Car servicing 100 Halfords Holdings Jersey 1 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Holdings Jersey 2 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Shares held indirectly through subsidiary undertakings.
Wholly owned indirectly through subsidiary undertakings.
Revenue recognition Retail Retail revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, promotions and returns.
Revenue is recognised on the sale of goods when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods delivered is recognised when the customer accepts delivery.
