102 Accounting Policies Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving disclosures about financial instruments enhance disclosures regarding fair value measurements relating to financial instruments and improving disclosures regarding liquidity risk.
Since the changes are presentational only, there is no impact on profit or net assets.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces IAS 14 and sets out requirements for disclosure of information about an entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates and its major customers.
As of 4 April 2009 the Group determined and presented operating segments based on the information internally provided to the Executive Directors, who represent the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Following the acquisition of Nationwide Autocentres on the 17 February 2010 the Executive Directors have concluded that the Group has two main operating and reporting segments, which are Retail and Car Servicing, and one main geographical segment, which is the United Kingdom.
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under the annual improvements project to IFRS, which are mandatory for the year ended 2 April 2010, have been adopted in the year.
None of these amendments have had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The following standards and interpretations have been published, endorsed by EU, and are available for early adoption, but have not yet been applied by the Group in these financial statements.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Revised 2009 requires accounting for changes in ownership interests by the Group in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to be recognised as an equity transaction.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, any interest retained in the former subsidiary will be measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The amendments to IAS 27 are not expected to have a material impact and will become mandatory for the Groups 2011 consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement: Eligible Hedged Items clarifies how to apply existing principles in determining eligible hedged risks and portions.
The amendments to IAS 39 are not expected to have a material impact and will become mandatory for the Groups 2011 consolidated financial statements.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2009 incorporates the following changes that are likely to be relevant to the Groups operations: The definition of a business has been broadened, which is likely to result in more acquisitions being treated as a business combination.
Contingent consideration will be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes therein recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be expensed as incurred.
Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree will be measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Any non-controlling minority interest will be measured at either fair value, or at its proportionate interest in the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on a  basis.
Revised IFRS 3, which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2011 consolidated financial statements, will be applied prospectively and therefore there will be no impact on prior periods.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through the profit and loss category.
This amendment will become mandatory for the Groups 2011 consolidated financial statements but is not expected to have a material impact.
Amendments to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues requires that rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
The amendment to IAS 32 will become mandatory for the Groups 2011 consolidated financial statements and is not expected to have a material impact.
