Halfords Group plc Online version 115 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
Provisions Central Distribution Property Other Europe exit reorganisation related trading Total m m m m m At 3 April 2009 8.3 8.2 2.2 18.7 Charged during the period 3.5 1.8 0.8 6.1 Utilised during the period 1.5 0.6 1.4 3.5 Acquired through business combinations 2.4 2.4 At 2 April 2010 3.5 6.8 11.8 1.6 23.7 Analysed as: Current liabilities 3.5 6.8 8.5 1.6 20.4 Non-current liabilities 3.3 3.3 The Central Europe exit provision represents the costs associated with the closure of all seven stores trading in the Czech Republic and Poland see Note 5.
The distribution reorganisation provision represents the costs associated with the re-configuration and consolidation of the Groups distribution and warehousing infrastructure.
Property related provisions consist of costs associated with vacant property, rent reviews and dilapidations.
As disclosed in Note 17 the prior year balance includes certain items previously included in accruals and deferred income.
Other trading provisions comprises of the sales returns provision and a provision for the costs associated with the cessation of the stand-alone cycle concept, including closure of stores where necessary.
Restructuring provisions A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating losses are not provided for.
Key assumptions within the Central Europe exit and Distribution reorganisation provisions are the timing of the exit from leases that are contracted into, the timing of redundancies and the extent of dilapidation costs.
The sensitivities to these assumptions are not considered material due to the time value of money being minimal over the period over which the costs will be incurred.
Property related provisions A provision for vacant properties is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is established, the Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with that contract.
The main uncertainty is the timing of the amounts payable, and the time value of money has been incorporated in to the provision amount to take account of this sensitivity.
A rent review provision is recognised when there are expected to be additional obligations as a result of the rent review, which forms part of the Groups unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the lease contract.
The provision is based on managements best estimate of the rent payable after the review.
Key uncertainties are the estimates of the rent payable after the review has occurred.
Sensitivity to this uncertainty is not expected to be material to the provision in total.
A dilapidations provision is recognised when there is an expectation of future obligations relating to the maintenance of leasehold properties arising from events such as lease renewals or terminations.
Key uncertainties are the estimates of amounts due.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
