100 Accounting Policies Basis of charge for taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The tax base of an asset is the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes against any taxable economic benefits that will flow to an entity when it recovers the carrying amount of the asset.
If those economic benefits will not be taxable, the tax base of the asset is equal to its carrying amount.
The tax base of a liability is its carrying amount, less any amount that will be deductible for tax purposes in respect of that liability in future periods.
In the case of revenue which is received in advance, the tax base of the resulting liability is its carrying amount, less any amount of the revenue that will not be taxable in future periods.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred taxation is calculated using rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.
Details of the provisions recognised and the significant estimates and judgements can be seen in Note 18.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
The interest element of the rental is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and its lease term.
In determining whether a lease is a finance lease, the building and land elements of the lease are reviewed separately.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The benefit of incentives from lessors are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Landlord surrender payments Payments received from landlords in respect of the surrender of all or part of units previously occupied by the Group, that do not represent an incentive for future rental commitments are recognised in the income statement on the exchange of contracts, where there are no further substantial acts to complete.
Sublease income The Group leases properties from which it no longer trades.
These properties are often sublet to third parties.
Rents receivable are recognised by offsetting the income against rental costs accounted for within selling and distribution costs in the income statement.
Pensions The Halfords Pension Plan is a contract based plan, where each member has their own individual pension policy, which they monitor independently.
The Group pays fixed contributions and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
The costs of contributions to the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period that they arise.
