Halfords Group plc Online version 69 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making Audit Committee recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on For the financial period to 2 April 2010, the Audit Committee comprised remuneration of executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Nigel Wilson, Keith Harris and Bill Ronald, all of whom are independent senior managers.
It also determines, within agreed terms of reference, non-executive Directors.
The Committee chairman is Nigel Wilson, specific remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the executive who, as Chief Financial Officer of Legal & General plc, is considered Directors and Company Secretary of the Company and such members by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Each of of senior management as it is delegated to consider.
This includes the other independent non-executive Directors on the Committee has, pension rights: any compensation payments: and the implementation through their other business activities, significant experience in financial of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees matters.
Senior members of management and advisors are invited to terms of reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to attend meetings as appropriate.
their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
The Audit Committee meets according to the requirements of the Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the Audit Committee also set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 80.
The provide the opportunity for the independent non-executive Directors to Directors Remuneration Report sets out the status of the Companys meet without the executive Directors present and also the opportunity to compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code with regard raise any issues of concern with the Companys external Auditor.
to remuneration matters and includes a statement on the Companys The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations policy on Directors and senior managers remuneration, benefits, to the Board on the appointment of the external Auditors and their share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements.
A resolution remuneration, for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and to approve the Directors Remuneration report will be proposed at the practices adopted in the preparation of the Interim Report and forthcoming AGM.
Annual Report and Financial Statement and reviewing the scope and Nomination Committee findings of the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its The Nomination Committee comprised Dennis Millard, Keith Harris, Bill obligations under the Combined Code in areas of risk management Ronald, Nigel Wilson and David Wild.
As acting Chairman, Nigel Wilson and internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal chaired the committee until 28 May 2009 when Dennis Millard was requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and ensures appointed Chairman of the Committee.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and that an effective system of internal financial and non-financial controls is Bill Ronald are considered independent non-executive Directors.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Combined Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate Annual Report and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
in relation to the Chairman after his appointment and the Board feels it The Committee will keep under review the external Auditors is appropriate, as all non-executive Directors sit on the committee, that independence including any non-audit services that are to be the committee should be chaired by the Chairman of the Group.
Senior provided by the external Auditors.
The Auditors are also requested members of management and advisers are invited to attend meetings to confirm their independence at least annually.
A formal policy has as appropriate.
been developed and implemented, which ensures that the nature The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing senior external Auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The management succession plans, retirements and appointments policy incorporates a fee limit of 25,000, above which a formal tender of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate process must be undertaken and approval of the Committee obtained recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills prior to any proposed appointment.
and experience on the Board.
The Committee has approved a formal whistle-blowing policy whereby The Nomination Committee has established a process for Board staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses or any and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This of its employees without fear of reprisal.
This includes arrangements to process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action, and the of the existing Directors, to assess which of the potential shortlisted rollout to our autocentre colleagues.
candidates would most benefit the balance of the Board having regard Relationships with shareholders also to the need for succession planning.
During the search for a new Nigel Wilson was the Senior Independent Director throughout the Chairman, the committee used the services of the executive recruitment period under review and acted as Chairman from 22 August 2008 agency Egon Zehnder.
until the appointment of Dennis Millard on 28 May 2009.
The Senior In recommending Dennis Millard to be appointed Chairman of the Independent Director is available to meet shareholders upon request Group the Nomination Committee assessed the time commitment if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the required by the Chairman.
In approving the appointment the Board took Chairman or the executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which this into account and also considered Denniss other commitments.
The Board concluded that he had enough time to fulfil his commitments to the Group and his other commitments would not affect his ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
