Halfords Group plc Online version 97 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com financials Car Servicing Car Servicing revenue comprises the provision of servicing to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates and promotions.
Revenue is recognised at the point at which those services have been rendered.
Promotions and Returns The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods and services being sold at a discount to standard retail price.
Revenue is adjusted to show sales net of all related discounts.
A provision for estimated returns is made representing the profit on goods sold during the year which are expected to be returned and refunded after the year end based on past experience.
Revenue is reduced by the value of sales returns provided for during the year.
Non-recurring items Non-recurring items are those items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence.
The Groups management consider that these items should be separately identified within their relevant income statement category to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise share options granted to employees.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentation currency and are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where it is deemed relevant to disclose the amounts to the nearest pound.
Items included in the financial statements of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash flow hedges.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising on qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at an average exchange rate.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate component of equity.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
Share-based payment transactions The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received under such schemes is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
Fair values are determined by use of an appropriate pricing model.
The amount to be expensed over the vesting period is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income, over the remaining vesting period.
Dividends Final dividends are recognised in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
