Halfords Group plc Online version 101 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com financials Estimates and judgements The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from the estimates.
The judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are detailed below: Impairment of assets Goodwill and other assets are subject to impairment reviews based on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their recoverable value may be less than their carrying value.
Recoverable amount is based on a calculation of expected future cash flows, which includes management assumptions and estimates of future performance.
Details of the assumptions used in the impairment review of goodwill and other assets are explained in Note 11.
Allowances against the carrying value of inventories The Group reviews the market value of and demand for its inventories on a periodic basis to ensure that recorded inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing the ultimate realisation of inventories, the Group is required to make judgements as to future demand requirements and to compare these with the current or committed inventory levels.
Assumptions have been made relating to the timing and success of product ranges, which would impact estimated demand and selling prices.
Sensitivities to the assumptions for specific product lines are not expected by management to result in a material change in the overall allowances.
Provisions Provisions have been made for the distribution and warehousing reorganisation, Central Europe exit, property related liabilities and other trading liabilities.
These provisions are estimates of the actual costs of future cash flows and are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
Assumptions made are detailed in Note 18.
Intangible asset valuations The measurement of fair values on a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
The key judgements involved are the identification of which intangible assets meet the recognition criteria as set out in IAS 38, the fair values attributable to those intangible assets, excluding any buyer-specific synergies, and the useful lives of individual intangible assets.
The useful lives of intangible assets relating to customer relationships involves judgement as to customer retention rates applicable.
The carrying amount of these assets and liabilities can be seen in the notes to the financial statements on pages 103 to 128.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group and have been adopted in 2010 as they are mandatory for the year ended 2 April 2010.
Amendments to International Accounting Standards IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements A Revised Presentation requires the presentation of a consolidated statement of changes in equity as a primary statement rather than as a note.
Since the changes are presentational only there has been no impact on profit or net assets.
Amendments to IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate requires dividends received from a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate to be recognised as income by the investor when the right to receive the dividend is established.
In accordance with the accounting standard this has been applied prospectively and has not had a material impact on the current year financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement Reclassification of Financial Assets: Effective date and Transition permits reclassification of non-derivative financial assets out of the fair value through the profit or loss category in particular circumstances.
This amendment has not had a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based payments Vesting Conditions and Cancellations clarifies the definition of vesting conditions, introduces the concept of non vesting conditions, requires non vesting conditions to be reflected in grant-date fair value and provides the accounting treatment for non vesting conditions and cancellations.
IFRS 2 has been adopted retrospectively and has had no impact on the financial statements.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
