Halfords Group plc Online version 71 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Directors Remuneration Report This report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Responsibilities Committee on behalf of the Board, has been drawn up in accordance The Remuneration Committees core responsibilities include: with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedules 5 and Reviewing and recommending the remuneration policy of executive 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts Directors and senior managers: and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
Within this policy agreeing individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, executive Directors and senior executive managers, The report has been approved both by the Remuneration Committee including the Company Secretary: and by the Board, and a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company on Reviewing and recommending the terms and conditions to be 27 July 2010. included in service agreements for executive Directors and senior executive managers: PART A UNAUDITED INFORMATION Reviewing and recommending any employee share-based incentive Remuneration Committee schemes and any changes to the rules of such schemes: Membership Reviewing and recommending appropriate performance conditions The Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors during and targets for the variable element of remuneration packages for the financial period to 2 April 2010: the executive Directors and senior executive managers: and Keith Harris Committee Chairman Reviewing annual and long-term performance against targets to Dennis Millard Appointed 28 May 2009 determine the level of reward that should be delivered to executive Bill Ronald Directors and senior executive managers.
Nigel Wilson During the year the Committee conducted an internal effectiveness Details of non-executive Directors experience and their other roles review and it was concluded that there were no items of concern are set out in the Directors biography section on page 61.
The Board that needed to be considered by the Committee.
The Committee will believes that these Directors have suitable experience to serve on the continue to review effectiveness of an annual basis.
Advisers Meetings During the year the Hay Group have continued to provide advice to During the financial period to 2 April 2010 the Committee met on the Committee on matters relating to remuneration, including market six occasions.
The executive Directors are invited to attend the comparison data and best practice.
Hay Group does not provide any Committees meetings, when appropriate, but are not present when other services to the Group.
The Committee also received advice from their own remuneration is discussed.
The Company Secretary is the Deloitte LLP on the design of the share-based long-term incentive secretary to the Committee.
plans and other remuneration matters.
Deloitte do not provide any Role other services to the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility received by Hay and Deloitte is independent.
for reviewing and recommending the pay and benefits and contractual During the year the Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive arrangements of the Chairman, executive Directors and the Company and was supported by the Director of Human Resources and the Secretary and such other senior managers as the Board may designate Company Secretary who is secretary to the Committee.
and for overseeing the Groups share schemes.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to principles of accountability and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements demonstrate a clear link between reward and performance.
In its work, the Committee considers fully the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and its terms of reference are available on the Groups website halfordscompany.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction 72 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration policy shareholder views on ensuring that remuneration arrangements do not incentivise excessive risk taking.
However, we believe that our Board The remuneration policy of the Committee and of the Board is to decision-making process ensures that there are sufficient safeguards to provide remuneration packages for executive Directors and other senior prevent this.
managers in the Group which: In this context it is intended that an award multiplier will be introduced Align managements interests with those of shareholders by to the Performance Share Plan PSP.
This will allow executives to incentivising management to deliver the Groups long-term strategy earn an incremental reward if performance is above upper quartile and enhance shareholder value.
This is explained in more detail in the section relating to the Provide management with the opportunity to earn competitive Performance Share Plan on page 75.
The Company has discussed remuneration through variable based pay.
these changes with its major shareholders and a resolution to amend the rules of the Companys PSP to incorporate this multiplier will be put Provide upper quartile rewards compared to other general retail before the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on companies of a similar size subject to above upper quartile 27 July 2010. performance being delivered.
In addition, during the year the Committee has also made changes Enable the Group to attract and retain management of the calibre to the annual bonus arrangement for the CEO and to salary levels for required to run the business and drive exceptional shareholder executive Directors.
Further details are provided on page 74. value creation.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for executive Directors, The Board reviews this policy annually and whether remuneration the Committee is sensitive to the pay and employment conditions arrangements appropriately reflect this policy.
During the year the elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining base salary Committee has worked with Deloitte LLP to review the current increases.
remuneration arrangements to ensure that they reflect this policy and our long-term business strategy.
The Committee concluded that, while The Committee will continue to monitor and review the remuneration a number of elements of the remuneration arrangements remained policy and remuneration arrangements to ensure that the structure and appropriate, our current structure was not aligned with the philosophy associated performance measures remain appropriately aligned with of delivering upper quartile remuneration to executives if they achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
The individual salary, bonus and above upper quartile performance for our shareholders.
A review of benefit levels of the executive Directors are, and will continue to be, market practice also indicated that the maximum total compensation reviewed annually by the Committee.
opportunity was not fully competitive, particularly at maximum levels, Balance of fixed vs. variable remuneration when compared to our key retail comparators.
It is the Companys policy that a substantial proportion of the executive The Company is at a very important stage in its development and the Directors remuneration should be variable and performance related in order Company has the opportunity to achieve strong levels of growth and to encourage and reward superior business performance and shareholder generate significant shareholder value in the future.
In this context, returns and that remuneration should be linked to both individual and the Committee believes that our policy of upper quartile pay for upper Company performance.
The following illustrates the balance between fixed quartile performance is therefore appropriate.
We are mindful of and variable remuneration based on the remuneration policy for 2010: Chief Executive Officer Target 51% 26% 51% 23% Chief Executive Officer Maximum 21% 32% 47% Finance Director & Commercial 56% 19% 25% Director Target Finance Director & Commercial 24% 23% 53% Director Maximum 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Fixed Bonus LTIP 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 73 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Summary of remuneration The Remuneration Committee selects performance measures that are designed to be aligned with the Groups strategic goals and that are transparent to Directors and shareholders.
Each element of remuneration is designed to support the achievement of different corporate objectives as outlined in the following table: Purpose and link to Element remuneration policy Maximum award Changes for 2010 Key features Base salary Reflects the n a Increases in salary In cash competitive market during the year to Based on individual salary level for the reflect positioning contribution individual and against market Reviewed annually their roles practice Takes account of personal performance and contribution to corporate performance Annual Bonus Rewards the 120% of base For 2010 11 Based on EBT and achievement of salary for CEO increase in bonus EPS performance annual earnings 100% of base salary from 120% to 150% Full bonus in cash targets for Finance Director of base salary for Finance Director and Commercial for CEO and Commercial Director Director For the CEO, For CEO, two-thirds of previously all cash, bonus in cash and for 2010 11 one-third of bonus one-third of bonus deferred into shares deferred into shares for three years for three years Performance Share Plan PSP Aligns with Maximum core Performance 50% TSR and 50% shareholder interests award of 150% multiplier of up to EPS performance through the delivery of base salary maximum of 1.5 5, of shares i. e. 225% of base salary, Rewards growth in introduced for the shareholder value delivery of exceptional and earnings performance The maximum core award for the CEO will be 150% of base salary Company Share Option Direct link to value It is currently No changes Based on EPS performance Scheme CSOS creation through share intended that the price growth as major executive Directors objective will not participate Aligns with shareholder in the CSOS interests through the delivery of shares Further details are provided about each element of remuneration below.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction 74 Directors Remuneration Report Base salaries opportunity will therefore be decreased from 120% of salary to 100% of salary.
The CEOs bonus will continue to be based on the metrics Basic salary for executive Directors takes into account the individuals outlined above.
experience, roles, responsibilities and performance.
This is normally reviewed annually unless responsibilities change.
For an executive Remuneration for senior managers Director who is experienced and fully effective in his role, basic salary is As for executive Directors, it is the Companys policy that a substantial targeted at the retail market median for comparable roles.
proportion of remuneration should be performance related in order to During the year the Committee undertook a benchmarking review and encourage and reward superior business performance and shareholder following this review it was agreed to increase executives salaries to returns and that remuneration should be linked to both individual and the following level with effect from 1 October 2009.
Basic salary is targeted at the retail market median for comparable roles and is benchmarked on a regular basis.
Role Salary with effect from 1 October 2009 Bonuses of up to 100% of salary can be earned on the same basis as Chief Executive 507,500 1.5% increase the executive Directors.
Finance Director 300,000 17% increase Senior executives immediately below the Board also benefit from Commercial Director 285,000 12% increase participation in the PSP, with other key senior managers participating in the CSOS.
The Finance Director and the Commercial Director have been on the Board for a number of years and are both very experienced and Share plans valued executives.
Their contribution, as joint Managing Directors of the The Company has adopted three share plans.
In May 2004 the business, during the period of recruiting a new CEO February 2008 Company adopted the Halfords Company Share Option Scheme August 2008 was exceptional and during this period both executives CSOS, a market value share option plan, and the Halfords passed up any salary increases their last increase in salary was with Sharesave Scheme and in July 2005 the Company adopted the effect from April 2008.
The review of salaries showed, however, that their Performance Share Plan PSP.
The PSP is intended to be the salaries were substantially lower than those at other retail companies main incentive vehicle for executive Directors and senior executives of similar size and complexity.
The Committee recognises that in the immediately below the Board, with awards generally made on an annual current economic environment such increases are unusual but given basis.
CSOS is used to reward employees below the Board and it is the experience and calibre of the incumbents and the performance not the current intention to grant awards under the CSOS to executive of the Company, the Committee considered that this approach was Directors.
The executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the appropriate.
This increase brings salaries to approximately the median Halfords Sharesave Scheme, an all-employee SAYE scheme.
when compared to other retailers of similar size and complexity.
Base While committed to the use of equity-based performance-related salaries will next be reviewed in October 2010. remuneration as a means of aligning Directors interests with those Annual bonus of shareholders, the Committee is aware of shareholders concerns Executive Directors may earn up to an additional 100% of their on dilution through the issue of new shares to satisfy such awards.
basic salaries 150% of base salary for the CEO as a performance Therefore, when reviewing remuneration arrangements, the Committee bonus.
80% of the entitlement is dependent upon Earnings before takes into account the effects such arrangements may have on dilution.
Tax EBT targets and 20% is dependent upon Earnings per Share Halfords intends to comply with the ABI guidelines relating to the targets EPS.
The Committee believes that these two measures issue of new shares for equity incentive plans.
The current ten years strike a good balance between providing line of sight for executives shareholder dilution is 4.32%.
and alignment with shareholder value creation.
The target entry point Halfords Company Share Option Scheme for the annual bonus is 97% of target which will elicit zero bonus Options are granted at an exercise price not less than market payment, with a straight-line determination to full payment at 106%.
value at the date of grant and may normally only be exercised if The Committee calibrates targets to ensure that they are very stretching performance conditions set at the time of grant have been achieved.
and demanding, with the maximum bonus only being achievable for These performance conditions require EPS for the financial year last exceptional performance.
preceding the third anniversary of the grant date to equal or exceed After very careful consideration, the Remuneration Committee the percentage growth in Retail Price Index RPI plus an additional concluded that it was appropriate to increase the bonus opportunity percentage determined as appropriate at the time of the grant.
For for the CEO from 120% of salary to 150% of base salary given the the last four annual awards the EPS target has been RPI 3.5%.
The calibre of the incumbent, his performance to date and his overall Committee believes that EPS is an appropriate performance target as it remuneration package relative to his peers in the retail sector.
The incentivises senior executives to drive earnings performance.
increased bonus opportunity will further incentivise the CEO to deliver As noted above, as the executive Directors primarily participate in the exceptional short-term performance.
The Committee believes that it is PSP, it is currently intended that no further awards are made to them consistent with our remuneration policy of delivering median levels of under the Company Share Option Scheme.
In the event that awards remuneration compared to our retail peers for target performance and are made under the CSOS to executive Directors, the Committee would delivering upper quartile remuneration for exceptional performance.
review the performance measures and would set targets which are The Committee, however, is mindful of the importance of striking an suitably stretching.
appropriate balance between incentivising executives to deliver annual performance and managing risk while creating long-term alignment with shareholders.
In light of this, one-third of any bonus earned by the CEO will be delivered in Halfords shares which will be deferred for a period of three years from the date of the award subject to continued employment and other applicable terms.
The maximum cash 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 75 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Halfords Sharesave Scheme The comparator group for awards in previous years was similar to the above group but did not include food retailers.
During the year the Committee considered the principles behind the establishment of the SAYE scheme in 2009 and concluded that Prior to 2009 the maximum award policy was 100% of base salary the current scheme remains appropriate.
Options are granted at an although the plan rules allowed for awards up to 200% of base salary.
exercise price not less than 80% of market value at the date of grant.
In 2009 the Committee reviewed award levels and considered, after Options may not normally be exercised until the option holder has consultations with shareholders, that it was appropriate to increase completed his or her savings contract normally three or five years from award levels for the Finance Director and the Commercial Director to the date of commencement of the savings contract.
Executive Directors 150% of base salary.
It had previously recommended to the Board may also join the Halfords Sharesave Scheme.
During the year awards that the new Chief Executive Officer should receive an award of 200% were granted under the SAYE to participating eligible employees in the of salary in the first and second years of his tenure.
This is in line with United Kingdom, Ireland and Hong Kong.
the plan rules approved by shareholders.
On the vesting of any of this award David Wild will be encouraged to retain shares, so enabling him Performance Share Plan to achieve the shareholding guidelines see page 76 more quickly.
Under the PSP, conditional rights to receive shares or nil cost options over shares are awarded to participants.
PSP Awards have been made For 2009 awards onwards, the Committee also recommended the in every year since 2005. reinvestment of dividends earned on award shares.
This is in line with best practice as contained in the ABI guidelines on executive Awards under the PSP vest subject to the achievement of stretching remuneration.
earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR targets.
The vesting of 50% of the awards will be determined by the Amended operation of the Performance Share Plan for 2010 Groups relative TSR performance when measured against a general As noted above, during the year the Committee reviewed the structure retailers comparator group chosen from the FTSE 350.
The vesting of the executive remuneration arrangements to ensure that they of the other 50% will be determined by the Groups absolute EPS continued effectively to incentivise and retain key executives in a growth performance against RPI.
The Committee believes that total way which is aligned with our long-term strategy and the creation of shareholder return and earnings per share remain appropriate measures shareholder value.
for the PSP as they are strongly aligned with shareholder interests.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 27 July 2010, for Vesting for each measure is assessed independently.
Thirty per cent awards granted in 2010 onwards, the core award for all executive of the awards vests for achieving median TSR performance and EPS Directors will be 150% of base salary representing a decrease in the growth of RPI plus 4% per annum.
One hundred per cent of the award core award level for the CEO which is currently 200% of base salary.
vests for achieving upper quartile TSR and EPS growth of RPI plus 11% In addition, there will be a vesting multiplier of up to 1.5 5 which will per annum.
Straight-line vesting applies between these points.
be applied to the TSR and EPS elements of awards.
The multiplier will apply on a straight-line basis for performance between upper quartile The companies included in the TSR comparator group for awards and upper decile.
The maximum multiplier will only apply if performance granted in 2009 are as follows: is at upper decile levels.
The core award for all executives will be 150% Brown Group Game Group Morrison of base salary.
The maximum possible award that can be earned will therefore be 225% of base salary.
Carpetright Greggs Mothercare For the EPS element the multiplier will only apply if EPS growth exceeds Carphone Warehouse HMV Group Next RPI plus 11% per annum, with the maximum multiplier only being Debenhams Home Retail Group Sainsburys achieved if EPS growth equals RPI plus 16% per annum.
These targets are significantly in excess of current targets and the Committee believes Dignity Kesa Eletrics Sports Direct that these targets represent an appropriate level of stretch.
The targets DSG International Kingfisher Tesco are set out in the table below: Dunelm Group Marks & Spencer WH Smith TSR Performance EPS Performance Element Element 50% of award 50% of award 1.5 x initial award vesting Upper Decile performance 16% growth p. a. above RPI Award Multiplier Straight-line vesting Between Upper Quartile and Between 11% growth p. a. and 16% up to 1.5 x initial award Upper Decile growth p. a. above RPI 100% vesting Upper Quartile performance 11% growth p. a. above RPI Core Award Straight-line vesting Between Median and Between 4% growth p. a. and 11% 150% of salary Upper Quartile growth p. a. above RPI 30% vesting Median 4% growth p. a. above RPI 0% vesting Below Median Below 4% growth p. a. above RPI 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction 76 Directors Remuneration Report TSR and EPS performance will continue to be assessed on an Performance graph independent basis.
However, to ensure that the PSP continues to The following graph shows the TSR performance of the Company support sustainable performance, the multiplier for one measure will since May 2005, against the FTSE 350 General Retailers which was only be applied if performance is at least at the threshold level for the chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the other measure.
For example, if TSR was above upper quartile the Company is a constituent.
TSR multiplier would generally only apply if EPS growth exceeded RPI TSR was calculated by reference to the growth in share price, as plus 4% per annum, unless the Remuneration Committee determined adjusted for reinvested dividends.
Cumulative TSR Based to 100 The Committee recognises that a plan that incentivises higher levels of performance involves a larger degree of inherent risk: however, the 250 Committee believes that the Board decision-making process provides appropriate safeguards to ensure that this structure does not incentivise 200 executives to take an inappropriate level of risk.
The Company has consulted with key shareholders in relation to the 150 changes to remuneration arrangements and were pleased with the level of support received.
As noted above, a resolution to change the PSP 100 rules to incorporate the multiplier will be put for shareholder approval at the AGM.
50 Details of options granted to executive Directors are set out on 0 page 80.
01 04 2005 01 04 2006 01 04 2007 01 04 2008 01 04 2009 01 04 2010 Shareholding Halfords Group plc The shareholding guidelines require executive Directors to acquire and FTSE 350 Retailers retain shares to a value equal to 200% of their basic annual salary.
Newly appointed executive Directors will be appointed to retain shares Directors interests in ordinary shares to a value equal to 100% of their basic salary over a five year period The beneficial interests of Directors, serving at the end of the financial following their appointment to the Board.
The executive Directors period, in shares in Halfords Group plc were: shareholding at 2 April 2010 is shown on page 76.
Fully paid Remuneration delivered in respect of performance in Ordinary Shares 2009 10 of 1p each Halfords has performed strongly this year.
Annual EBT and EPS As at As at performance was significantly in excess of targets for the annual 2 April 2010 3 April 2009 performance bonus representing significant delivery of value for shareholders.
Given this performance, 100% of the maximum bonus in Dennis Millard Appointed 28 May 2009 25,000 respect of 2009 10 was paid.
The bonus payments made in respect of David Wild 100,000 40,000 2009 10 are set out on page 78.
Nick Wharton 270,100 237,812 Paul McClenaghan 124,744 26,679 Performance for PSP awards granted in 2007 was tested in respect of Nigel Wilson 41,333 20,396 the financial year 2009 10.
TSR performance was in the upper decile Keith Harris 3,846 3,846 Halfords were ranked first when compared to the comparator group Bill Ronald 11,538 11,538 of selected other retail companies and EPS growth over the three-year performance period of 40.8% exceeded RPI plus 11% per annum.
This Directors share interests include the interests of their spouses, civil performance represents significant earnings and total return growth for partners and infant children, or stepchildren as required by Section 822 shareholders.
The PSP awards granted in 2007 therefore vested in full.
There were no changes in the beneficial Performance for CSOS awards granted in 2007 to below Board interests of the Directors in the Companys shares between 2 April 2010 employees was also tested in respect of the financial year 2009 10. and 10 June 2010.
The EPS growth target attached to this award were met and the Pensions options vested in full.
Participants will have a further seven years in During 2008 9 the Company changed its pension arrangements to which to exercise these options.
prepare for the Governments introduction of Personal Accounts.
The Halfords Pension Plan moved from a defined contribution scheme to a contract-based plan, where each member has their own individual pension policy which they monitor independently, each member could also benefit from salary sacrifice arrangements.
Both schemes were open to the executive Directors.
The CEO and the Commercial Director receive a pension contribution of 15% of base salary per annum.
The Finance Director receives a pension contribution of 26.25% of base salary per annum reflecting his legacy contractual entitlements.
The Groups contributions during the year are shown in the table on page 78.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 77 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Other benefits No compensation would be payable if a service contract were to be terminated by notice from an executive Director or for lawful early Executive Directors are entitled to be provided with a company car or termination by the Company.
an equivalent allowance, contribution to a personal pension scheme, permanent health insurance, life assurance cover, membership of a The service contracts of executive Directors do not provide for private medical insurance scheme and travelling and other expenses.
any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Other Directorships The Group is supportive of executive Directors who wish to take on a Details of individual Directors remuneration and share incentives are set non-executive Directorship with a publicly quoted company in order out on pages 78 to 80. to broaden their experience, they are entitled to retain any fees they Non-executive Directors may receive.
On 14 August 2009 Nick Wharton was appointed a nonThe Board as a whole, following a recommendation by the Chief executive director of Dunelm Group plc, where he is also Chairman of Executive Officer, determines the fees of the non-executive Directors.
He received a fee of 18,000 during the year.
None of the non-executive Directors has an employment contract with Service agreements the Company.
However, each has entered into a letter of appointment The Companys policy in relation to contractual terms on termination, with the Company confirming their appointment for a period of three and any payments made, is that they should be fair to the individual, years, unless terminated by either party giving the other not less the Company and shareholders.
Failure should not be rewarded than three months notice or by the Company on payment of fees and the departing executives duty to mitigate loss should be fully in lieu of notice.
The appointments are subject to the provisions of recognised.
The Committee periodically reviews the Groups policy on the Companies Act 1985 and 2006 and the Companys Articles the duration of Directors service agreements, and the notice periods of Association and in particular the need for periodic re-election.
and termination provisions contained in those agreements.
Whilst the Continuation of an individual non-executive Directors appointment Company is aware that companies are encouraged to consider notice is also contingent on that non-executive Directors satisfactory periods of less than 12 months, the Committee believes that the current performance, which will be evaluated annually.
No compensation policy, whereby notice periods contained in executive Directors service would be payable to a non-executive Director if his engagement were contracts should be limited to 12 months other than in exceptional terminated as a result of him retiring by rotation at an Annual General circumstances, such as for the purposes of recruitment is more in line Meeting, not being elected or re-elected at an Annual General Meeting with the Companys overall remuneration policy that is designed to or otherwise ceasing to hold office under the provisions of the Articles attract and retain high calibre executives.
of Association of the Company.
Date of Service Notice In May 2010 fees for the Chairman and non-executive Directors were Agreement Period reviewed and it was agreed that there would be no increases.
It is 1 David Wild 19 June 2008 12 months intended to review these fees again in April May 2011.
Halfords policy Nick Wharton 17 May 2004 12 months in relation to non-executive Director fees is as follows: Paul McClenaghan 9 May 2005 12 months 1 Role Fees David Wild was appointed to the Board on 4 August 2008 and his Service Agreement was effective from that date.
Chairman 165,000 Senior Independent Director 60,000 The Company may terminate any of the above service agreements by Basic Fee 45,000 giving not less than 12 months notice.
In the event of early termination Additional fee for Chairmanship of the other than for a reason justifying summary termination in accordance Audit and Remuneration Committee 5,000 with the terms of the service agreement the Company may but is not obliged to pay to the executive Director, in lieu of notice, a sum equal There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon early to the annual value of the executive Directors then salary, benefits, termination of an appointment of a non-executive Director.
pension contributions and on-target bonus calculated on a pro rata The Chairman and the other non-executive Directors are not eligible daily basis which he would have received during the contractual notice to participate in the Companys bonus arrangements, share incentive period, the sum of which shall be payable in 12 monthly instalments.
In plans or pension arrangements.
such instances the executive Director shall use their best endeavours to secure an alternative source of remuneration, thus mitigating any loss to the Company, via the provision of his services as expediently as possible in the prevailing circumstances and shall provide the Board with evidence of such endeavours upon their reasonable request.
If the Director fails to provide such evidence the Board may cease all further payments of compensation.
To the extent that the executive Director receives any sums as a result of alternative employment or provision of services while he is receiving such payments from the Company, the payments shall be reduced by the amount of such sums.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
