Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing these accounts.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 28 March 2009 and 3 April 2010 other than those noted below.
The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as described below under the heading Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
New, revised or changes to existing standards which have been adopted by the Group in the year ending 3 April 2010 IAS 1 revised, effective for periods commencing 1 January 2009, requires the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the Income statement and Statement of comprehensive income.
As a result, a Consolidated statement of changes in equity has been included in the primary statements, showing changes in each component of equity for each period presented.
IFRS 8 Operating segments, became effective on 1 January 2009.
The new standard has not required any significant changes to segmental reporting from that reported in 2009.
IAS 23 Borrowing costs amendment became effective on 1 January 2009 and requires borrowing costs which meet certain criteria to be capitalised.
The Group does not currently have any material borrowings or interest costs, which are covered by this standard.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures became effective in 2009 and did not have a material impact on the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 1 amended Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters IFRS 2 amended Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment transactions IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosure IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 32 amended Classification of Rights Issue IAS 39 amended Eligible Hedged Items IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Improvements to IFRS April 2009 None of these is anticipated to have any material impact on future periods other than IFRS 3 revised with effect from 4 April 2010, which will change the Groups treatment of the cost of business combinations and deferred consideration for transactions completed from that date.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained on page 53.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgments The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 74 Financial Statements The following two areas of key estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgment have been identified as having significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year: Goodwill impairment Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
In turn, the value in use calculation involves an estimation of the present value of future cash flows of CGUs.
The future cash flows are based on annual budgets, as approved by the Board, to which the managements expectation of market-share and long-term growth rates are applied.
The present value is then calculated based on managements judgment of future discount rates.
The Board reviews these key assumptions market-share, long-term growth rates, and discount rates and the sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Further details are provided in note 11.
Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgment in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include future mortality, discount rate, inflation and salary increases.
Management makes these judgments in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the judgments made in calculating these transactions are disclosed in note 27.
Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma p. l. c. and its subsidiary companies made up to 3 April 2010, adjusted to eliminate intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired or discontinued are included from the month of their acquisition or to the month of their discontinuation.
Goodwill Goodwill in respect of acquisitions after 4 April 2004 the date from which the financial statements were reported under IFRS represents the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the business acquired, and is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet.
Goodwill therefore includes non-identified intangible assets including business processes, buyer-specific synergies, know-how and workforce-related industry-specific knowledge and technical skills.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement.
On closure or disposal of an acquired business, goodwill would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on closure or disposal.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 in its consolidated accounts.
As a result, the net book value of goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP at 3 April 2004 was brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to impairment testing on that date: and goodwill that was written off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards.
Other intangible assets a Product development costs Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new or substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven and the decision to complete the development has been taken, and can be measured reliably.
Such expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet at cost and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of three years.
b Acquired intangible assets An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Acquired intangible assets are amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straightline basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and ten years.
c Computer software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset, and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between three and five years.
d Other intangibles Other intangibles are amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and ten years.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 75 Accounting Policies continued Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production are subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Segmental reporting An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker the Chief Executive Officer to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 in the current year.
The reportable segments disclosed are consistent with operating segments previously determined and presented in accordance with IAS14 Segment Reporting.
Reportable segments are operating segments that either meet the thresholds and conditions set out in IFRS 8 or are considered by the Board to be appropriately designated as reportable segments.
Segment result represents operating profits and includes an allocation of head office expenses.
Segment result excludes tax and financing items.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment excluding land and buildings, inventories, trade and other receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, provisions and other payables.
Unallocated items represent land and buildings, corporate and deferred taxation balances, defined benefit scheme liabilities, deferred purchase consideration, all components of net cash borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Foreign currencies The Group presents its accounts in Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated income statement.
Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year, and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign business is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on these translations are taken to the Hedging and translation reserve within Shareholders funds.
In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after taking into account the cumulative translation difference held within the Hedging and translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the Hedging and translation to be nil at 4 April 2004.
Accordingly, the profit or loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will not include any currency translation differences which arose before 4 April 2004.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risk using forward exchange contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 25.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit and loss held for trading unless they are in a designated hedge relationship.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 76 Financial Statements Cash flow hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument has been or is expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Note 25 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and the movements in the hedging reserve in equity.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in Other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion as a result of being overhedged is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts previously recognised in Other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised in Other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised, when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised, in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Net investment hedge accounting The Group uses US Dollar and Euro denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Groups net investment in overseas companies.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income and accumulated in the Hedging and translation reserve.
The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenue Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Transactions are recorded as revenue when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in accordance with the contracted terms of sale.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each assets estimated economic life.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: Freehold property 2% Leasehold properties: Long leases more than 50 years unexpired 2% Short leases less than 50 years unexpired Period of lease Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 20% 1 Short-life tooling 33 3% Leases Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach to owned assets are classified as finance leases, of which the Group has none.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pensions The Group makes contributions to various pension schemes, covering the majority of its employees.
For defined benefit schemes, the asset or liability recorded in the balance sheet is the difference between the fair value of the schemes assets and the present value of the defined obligation at that date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated separately for each scheme on an annual basis by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and are taken to Shareholders funds.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 77 Accounting Policies continued Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any settlements or curtailments, are charged to the Consolidated income statement.
Interest on pension plans liabilities are recognised within finance expense and the expected return on the schemes assets are recognised within finance income in the Consolidated income statement.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Consolidated income statement when they fall due.
Employee share schemes Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups share incentive plan, the share option plans and the performance share plan.
a Share incentive plan Awards of shares under the share incentive plan are made to qualifying employees depending on salary and service criteria.
The shares awarded under this plan are purchased in the market by the plans trustees at the time of the award, and are then held in trust for a minimum of three years.
The costs of this plan are recognised in the Consolidated income statement over the three-year vesting periods of the awards.
b Share option plans All grants of options under the 1990 and 1996 share option plans and the 1999 company share option plan together, the share option plans are equity settled, and so, as permitted by IFRS 1, the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment have been applied only to options awarded on or after 7 November 2002 which had not vested at 3 April 2005.
The fair value of awards under these plans has been measured at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model and will not be subsequently remeasured.
The fair value is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The corresponding credit is to Shareholders funds.
No further awards will be made under the share option plans.
c Performance share plan On 3 August 2005 the share option plans were replaced by the performance share plan.
Awards under this plan are partly equity-settled and partly cash-settled, and are subject to both market based and non-market based vesting criteria.
The fair value of the equity-settled portion at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of market-based performance conditions being met.
The fair value is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures arising from the non-market based performance conditions only.
For the cash-settled portion, a liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress of subsidiary companies are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated either on a first in, first out or an average cost basis and includes direct materials and the appropriate proportion of production and other overheads considered by the Directors to be attributable to bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the year end.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to complete and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of the cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 78 Financial Statements Taxation Taxation comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Shareholders funds, in which case it too is recognised in Shareholders funds.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or subsequently enacted at the balance sheet date, along with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated income statement because it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, apart from the following differences which are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates and laws, which are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that recovery is probable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits with an initial maturity of less than three months, and bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 79
