Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 14 notes to consolidated financial statements 1 reporting entitY from operations, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing Heritage Oil Plc the Company was incorporated under the Jersey debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the Group has a number of Companies Law on 6 February 2008 as Heritage Oil Limited.
The different sources of finance available and the Directors are confident Company changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009. that additional finance will be raised as and when needed.
Its primary business activity is the exploration, development and production of petroleum and natural gas in Africa, the Middle East After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that and Russia.
The Company was established in order to implement a the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence corporate reorganisation of HOC.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
These consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all subsidiaries over which the Company exercises The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to control.
The Company together with its subsidiaries are referred to as affect its future development, performance and position are set out the Group.
The key subsidiaries consolidated within these financial in the Annual Review on pages 21 to 29.
The financial position of statements include inter alia Heritage Oil Corporation, Heritage the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Oil & Gas Limited, Eagle Energy Oman Limited disposed in Financial Review on pages 2 to 5 of this report.
In addition, note 3 of 2009 note 6, Heritage Oil and Gas U Limited, Heritage Energy the financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes Middle East Limited, Heritage DRC Limited, Coatbridge Estates for managing its capital: its financial risk management: and its Limited, ChumpassNefteDobycha, Neftyanaya Geologicheskaya exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, credit risk Kompaniya, Heritage Mali Block 7 Limited, Heritage Mali Block 11 and liquidity risk.
Limited, Begal Air Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Holdings Limited, Eagle Drill Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Switzerland SA, Heritage The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Oil International Malta Limited, 1381890 Alberta ULC, Heritage Oil requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
A, Heritage Oil Holdings Limited, Darwin Air Limited, management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Heritage Tanzania Kimbiji-Latham Limited, Heritage Tanzania Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of Kisangire Limited, Heritage Oil Tanzania Limited and Heritage Oil judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates UK Limited.
are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.
The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issuance on 18 April 2011. b Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and 2 significant accounting policies liabilities of all subsidiaries of the Company as at 31 December 2010 The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these and 2009 and the results of all subsidiaries for the years then ended.
consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Subsidiaries are all entities, including special purpose entities over otherwise stated.
which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, so as to obtain benefits from its activities, generally a Basis of preparation accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Company controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain Company.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the The Companys consolidated financial statements are presented acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is in thousand US dollars unless otherwise stated.
US dollars are the measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued Companys functional and presentation currency.
and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a The Group had available cash of $598 million at 31 December 2010, business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the excluding amounts related to the tax dispute with Government.
Based acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital expenditure excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient cash to of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent finance its operations for more than 12 months from the date of liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is this report.
As for most oil and gas exploration companies, Heritage less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the raises financing for its activities from time to time using a variety of difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Sources of funding for future exploration and development programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal proceeds from the sale of assets, such as the sale of the Companys holdings in Oman in 2009 and the disposal of the Ugandan Assets in 2010 note 6, using its existing treasury resources, new credit facilities, reinvesting its funds
