Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 14 notes to consolidated financial statements 1 reporting entitY from operations, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing Heritage Oil Plc the Company was incorporated under the Jersey debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the Group has a number of Companies Law on 6 February 2008 as Heritage Oil Limited.
The different sources of finance available and the Directors are confident Company changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009. that additional finance will be raised as and when needed.
Its primary business activity is the exploration, development and production of petroleum and natural gas in Africa, the Middle East After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that and Russia.
The Company was established in order to implement a the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence corporate reorganisation of HOC.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
These consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all subsidiaries over which the Company exercises The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to control.
The Company together with its subsidiaries are referred to as affect its future development, performance and position are set out the Group.
The key subsidiaries consolidated within these financial in the Annual Review on pages 21 to 29.
The financial position of statements include inter alia Heritage Oil Corporation, Heritage the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Oil & Gas Limited, Eagle Energy Oman Limited disposed in Financial Review on pages 2 to 5 of this report.
In addition, note 3 of 2009 note 6, Heritage Oil and Gas U Limited, Heritage Energy the financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes Middle East Limited, Heritage DRC Limited, Coatbridge Estates for managing its capital: its financial risk management: and its Limited, ChumpassNefteDobycha, Neftyanaya Geologicheskaya exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, credit risk Kompaniya, Heritage Mali Block 7 Limited, Heritage Mali Block 11 and liquidity risk.
Limited, Begal Air Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Holdings Limited, Eagle Drill Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Switzerland SA, Heritage The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Oil International Malta Limited, 1381890 Alberta ULC, Heritage Oil requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
A, Heritage Oil Holdings Limited, Darwin Air Limited, management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Heritage Tanzania Kimbiji-Latham Limited, Heritage Tanzania Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of Kisangire Limited, Heritage Oil Tanzania Limited and Heritage Oil judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates UK Limited.
are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.
The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issuance on 18 April 2011. b Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and 2 significant accounting policies liabilities of all subsidiaries of the Company as at 31 December 2010 The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these and 2009 and the results of all subsidiaries for the years then ended.
consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Subsidiaries are all entities, including special purpose entities over otherwise stated.
which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, so as to obtain benefits from its activities, generally a Basis of preparation accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Company controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain Company.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the The Companys consolidated financial statements are presented acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is in thousand US dollars unless otherwise stated.
US dollars are the measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued Companys functional and presentation currency.
and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a The Group had available cash of $598 million at 31 December 2010, business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the excluding amounts related to the tax dispute with Government.
Based acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital expenditure excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient cash to of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent finance its operations for more than 12 months from the date of liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is this report.
As for most oil and gas exploration companies, Heritage less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the raises financing for its activities from time to time using a variety of difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Sources of funding for future exploration and development programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal proceeds from the sale of assets, such as the sale of the Companys holdings in Oman in 2009 and the disposal of the Ugandan Assets in 2010 note 6, using its existing treasury resources, new credit facilities, reinvesting its funds Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 15 2 significant accounting policies Tangible assets acquired for use in E&E activities are classified as continued property, plant and equipment: however, to the extent that such a Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the transactions between Group entities the Company and its subsidiaries amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of are eliminated.
For the purposes of consolidation, the accounting the intangible asset.
policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company.
Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect are not depreciated and are carried forward until the existence, or c Segment reporting otherwise, of commercial reserves has been determined.
The Groups The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the definition of commercial reserves for such purpose is proved and information that internally is provided to the Chief Executive Officer probable reserves on an entitlement basis.
CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, who are the Groups chief operating decision makers.
Proved and probable reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty see in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur below to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves operating results are reviewed regularly by the CEO and CFO to make will be more than the amount estimated as proved and probable and a decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
The equivalent statistical performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
probabilities for the proven component of proved and probable reserves are 90% and 10%, respectively.
Segment results that are reported to the CEO and CFO include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated Such reserves may be considered commercially producible if on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate management has the intention of developing and producing them and assets, corporate offices expenses and liabilities.
such intention is based upon: Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period a reasonable assessment of the future economics of such production: to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other a reasonable expectation that there is a market for all or than goodwill.
substantially all the expected hydrocarbon production: and evidence that the necessary production, transmission and d Joint arrangements transportation facilities are available or can be made available.
The majority of exploration, development and production activities are conducted jointly with others under contractual arrangement and, Furthermore: accordingly, the Group only reflects its proportionate interest in such assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
i Reserves may only be considered proved and probable if producibility is supported by either actual production or a e Exploration and evaluation expenditures conclusive formation test.
The area of reservoir considered proved The Group applies a modified full cost method of accounting for includes: a that portion delineated by drilling and defined by exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the gas-oil and or oil-water contacts, if any, or both: and b the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can Resources.
Under the modified full cost method of accounting, costs of be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis exploring for and evaluating oil and gas properties are capitalised on a of available geophysical, geological and engineering data.
In licence or prospect basis and the resulting assets are tested for impairment the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known by reference to appropriate cost pools.
Such cost pools are based on structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved geographic areas and are not larger than a segment.
The Group had seven limit of the reservoir.
cost pools in 2010 2009 eight cost pools : Uganda discontinued in ii Reserves which can be produced economically through application 2010 : Kurdistan: Russia: the DRC: Pakistan: Malta: Mali and Tanzania.
of improved recovery techniques, such as fluid injection, are only included in the proved and probable classification when successful E&E costs related to each licence prospect are initially capitalised testing by a pilot project, the operation of an installed programme within Intangible exploration and evaluation assets.
Such E&E costs in the reservoir, or other reasonable evidence such as, experience may include costs of licence acquisition, technical services and studies, of the same techniques on similar reservoirs or reservoir simulation seismic acquisition, exploration drilling and testing, the projected studies provides support for the engineering analysis on which the costs of retiring the assets, if any, and directly attributable general and project or programme was based.
administrative expenses, but do not include costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area, which are expensed If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
are assessed for impairment on a cost pool basis as set out below and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Where the Company farms-in to licences and incurs costs in excess carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets of its own share of licence costs as consideration, these costs are is then reclassified as development and production assets within capitalised as its own share.
Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 16 notes to consolidated financial statements continued 2 significant accounting policies Corporate capital assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis continued over their estimated useful lives.
The building is depreciated on a E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances straight-line basis over 40 years with nil residual value.
The land is suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable amount.
Such indicators include the point at which a determination is made as to whether or not commercial reserves exist.
Where the E&E assets g Cash and cash equivalents concerned fall within the scope of an established full cost pool, the Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at E&E assets are tested for impairment together with all development call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with and production assets associated with that cost pool, as a single cash original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents generating unit.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against the are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
expected recoverable amount of the pool, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from h Trade and other receivables production of commercial reserves.
Where the E&E assets to be tested Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and fall outside the scope of any established cost pool, there will generally subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest be no commercial reserves and the E&E assets concerned will be method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of written off in full.
trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the f Property, plant and equipment original terms of the receivables.
i Development and production assets The Group had one interest at the development and production stage i Inventories during the years covered by these financial statements: Russia.
Inventories consist of petroleum, condensate, liquid petroleum gas and materials that are recorded at the lower of weighted average cost and Development and production assets are accumulated on a field-by-field net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour, basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves depletion and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the discovered and bringing them into production, together with inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less transferred from intangible E&E assets as outlined above, applicable variable selling expenses.
Provision is made for obsolete, the projected cost of retiring the assets and directly attributable slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
j Investments The net book values of producing assets are depleted on a field-byThe Group classifies its investments in the following categories: field basis using the unit of production method by reference to the financial assets at fair value through the income statement and ratio of production in the year to the related proved plus probable available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the reserves of the field, taking into account estimated future development purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
During the years covered by these financial statements the Group did An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances not have any investments classified as loans and receivables or held arising during the development or production phase indicate that the to maturity investments.
carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against i Financial assets at fair value through the income statement the expected recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by Financial assets held for trading are carried at fair value with changes reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be in fair value recognised in the income statement.
A financial asset is derived from the production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit unless they are designated as hedges.
where the cash flows generated by the fields are interdependent.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial ii Other assets assets at fair value through the income statement category are Other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less presented in the income statement within Unrealised gain loss on accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The assets other financial assets in the year in which they arise.
useful lives and residual values are assessed on an annual basis.
Furniture and fittings are depreciated using the reducing balance ii Available-for-sale financial assets method at 20% per year.
Available-for-sale financial assets, comprising principally marketable equity securities, are non-derivatives that are either designated in this Land is not subject to depreciation.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within Aircraft are depreciated over their expected useful life of 60 months.
12 months of the balance sheet date.
Depreciation is charged so as to write-off the cost, less estimated residual value of aircraft on a straight-line basis.
Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 17 2 significant accounting policies during the life of the convertible bond and reclassifies between continued liabilities and equity when appropriate.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities classified as availablefor-sale other than impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation losses which are recognised in the income statement are recognised specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Upon sale of a security classified as available-for-sale, the difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the the income statement.
consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in finance income or costs.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has impaired.
Measurement is assessed by reference to the fair value of the an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least financial asset or group of financial assets.
12 months after the balance sheet date.
k Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations n Borrowing costs Non-current assets, or disposal groups, are classified as assets held Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset for sale and stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete less costs to sell if their carrying amount will be recovered principally and prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
Other borrowing through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Non-current assets, including those that are part of a disposal group The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to the sale.
Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a Groups outstanding borrowings during the year.
For the year ended disposal group classified as held for sale continue to be recognised.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal o Provisions group classified as assets held for sale are presented separately, as Asset retirement obligations current assets, from the other assets in the balance sheet.
The liabilities Provision is made for the estimated cost of any asset retirement of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately, obligations when the Group has a present legal or constructive as current liabilities, from other liabilities in the balance sheet.
obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future that represents a separate major line of business or geographical operating losses.
Asset retirement obligation expense is capitalised in area of operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a the relevant asset category unless it arises from the normal course of subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.
When an Provisions are measured at the present value of managements best operation is classified as a discontinued operation, from the estimate of expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the comparative income statement is represented as if the operation had balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the present been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
l Trade and other payables These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services provided to Subsequent to the initial measurement of the asset retirement the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid.
obligation, the obligation is adjusted at the end of each year to reflect the passage of time and changes in the estimated future cash flows m Borrowings underlying the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs passage of time is recognised as finance costs whereas changes in the incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
estimated future cash flows are added to or deducted from the related Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the asset in the current period.
redemption amount is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
p Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of petroleum and natural gas is recognised at the Convertible bonds are separated into liability and derivative liability fair value received or receivable and is recorded when the significant components being the Bondholders conversion option and each risks and rewards of ownership of the product are transferred to the component is recognised separately.
On initial recognition, the fair buyer.
For sales of oil and gas this is usually when legal title passes value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined to the external party which occurs on shipment of oil and gas to the using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis the effective interest method.
using the effective interest method until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the Bonds.
The Company reassesses the classification Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 18 notes to consolidated financial statements continued 2 significant accounting policies Foreign currency loans and overdrafts are designated as, and are continued considered to be, hedges of the exchange rate exposure inherent in q Income taxes foreign currency net investments and, to the extent that the hedge is Current income tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable effective, exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because value of foreign currency loans are also recognised as income or it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible as well as those expense directly in equity.
All other exchange differences giving rise to that are taxable or deductible in a different period.
The Groups current changes in the carrying value of foreign currency loans and overdrafts tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have been are recognised in the income statement.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
When a foreign operation is sold, a proportionate share of the Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in equity are method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of recognised in the income statement, as part of the gain or loss on sale assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated where applicable.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by s Share-based compensation plans the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related The Group applies the fair value method of accounting to all equitydeferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax classified share-based compensation arrangements for both employees liability is settled.
Compensation costs of equity-classified awards to employees are measured at fair value of the awards at the grant date Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and recognised over the periods during which the employees become and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts unconditionally entitled to the options.
The compensation cost is will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
charged to the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally the actual number of share options that vest.
enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority.
The compensation cost of equity-classified awards to non-employees is initially measured at fair value of the awards at the grant date r Foreign currency translation and periodically remeasured to fair value until the non-employees Items included in the financial statements of each of the Companys performance is complete, and recognised over the periods during consolidated subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the which the non-employees become unconditionally entitled to the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates options.
The compensation cost is charged to income with a the functional currency.
The Companys consolidated financial corresponding increase to share-based payment reserve.
statements are presented in thousand US dollars, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Dividends declared but not paid out before exercise of the option are recognised only when the exercise price, reduced for the dividends Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective declared, becomes a recognised receivable upon exercise.
The functional currencies of Group entities using the exchange rates obligation to pay the dividends reduces the unrecognised receivable prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains due from the option holder.
The dividends are netted against the and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from amount with the proceeds from the exercise price and not recognised the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and as a separate distribution in equity.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Upon the exercise of the award, consideration received is recognised in equity notes 18.
The results and financial position of all the Companys consolidated subsidiaries none of which has a functional currency that is the t Share capital currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares are classified as share capital.
currency different from the presentation currency are translated Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options into the presentation currency as follows: are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated If the Company reacquires its own equity instruments the cost is at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: deducted from equity and the associated shares are cancelled.
ii income and expenses for each year are translated at average exchange rates unless this is not a reasonable approximation u Earnings per share of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of dates of the transactions : and Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares outstanding during the financial iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as either income period.
The rights of different classes of shares are the same and therefore or expense in a separate component of equity.
As such, Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares are treated as one class of shares for the earnings per share calculation.
