Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 20 notes to consolidated financial statements continued 3 risk management continued The Companys financial liabilities consist of trade and other payables The table below summarises the impact of increases decreases of the and borrowings.
Trade and other payables are due within 12 months, relevant oil condensate LPG benchmark on the Companys loss for the and borrowings fall due as outlined in notes 15 and 16. year.
The analysis is based on the assumption that commodity prices had increased decreased by 5% with all other variables held constant: b Capital risk management The Companys objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Year ended 31 December Companys ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 2010 2009 returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders and to $000 $000 maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Brent light crude 120 70 Capital consists of share capital and retained earnings deficit 120 70 and reserves.
The Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
The loss from continuing operations for the year would increase This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt decrease as a result of commodity revenues received.
is calculated as total borrowings including borrowings, trade and other payables, liabilities of a disposal group classified as held iii Interest rate risk for sale, current tax liabilities and provisions as shown in the The Group had fixed rate convertible bonds in the years under review, consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents.
Total therefore it was not exposed to interest rate risk with respect to this capital is calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated balance fixed rate borrowing.
In January 2005, a wholly owned subsidiary sheet plus net debt.
of the Company received a sterling denominated loan of 4.5 million Year ended 31 December to refinance the acquisition of a corporate office.
Interest on the 2010 2009 loan was fixed at 6.515% for the first five years and is then variable $000 $000 at a rate of Bank of Scotland base rate plus 1.4% note 16.
In October Total borrowings 189,080 166,361 2007, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company received a long-term Less cash and cash equivalents note 14 598,275 208,094 loan of $9.45 million with a variable rate of LIBOR plus 1.6% note 16.
Net cash 409,195 41,733 An increase decrease of LIBOR by 1% would result in an increase decrease of the Companys loss from continuing operations for the Total equity 1,122,825 389,663 year by $144,000 31 December 2009 $85,000.
Total capital 1,122,825 389,663 Gearing ratio 0% 0% iv Credit risk All of the Companys production in 2009 and 2010 was derived from 4 critical accounting estimates, Russia.
In 2009 and 2010 sales were to a maximum of nine customers.
assumptions and Judgements In the process of applying the Companys accounting policies, which Trade debtors of the Company are subject to internal credit review to are described in note 2, management makes estimates and assumptions minimise the risk of non-payment.
The Company does not anticipate concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by any default as it transacts with creditworthy counterparties.
No credit definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates limits were exceeded during the reporting years and management does and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: The Company is also exposed to credit risk in relation to regular joint venture billings which are typically outstanding for one month and in a Recoverability of E&E costs relation to its cash balances held with reputable banks.
Under the modified full cost method of accounting for E&E costs, certain costs are capitalised as intangible assets by reference to appropriate cost v Liquidity risk pools, and are assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest that Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable value.
Cash forecasts identifying liquidity requirements of the Group are produced quarterly.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: sufficient funds exist to finance the Companys current operational and investment cash flow requirements.
i the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period, or will expire in the near future, Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Companys cash position and is not expected to be renewed: on the basis of expected cash flow.
ii substantive expenditure on further exploration for, and evaluation of, mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned: The Group had available cash of $598 million at 31 December 2010. iii exploration for, and evaluation of, mineral resources in the specific Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such cash to finance its operations for more than 12 months from the date of activities in the specific area: and this report.
Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 21 4 critical accounting estimates, ii Derivatives assumptions and Judgements continued Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction iv sufficient data exists to indicate that, although a development in costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full value.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and from successful development or by sale.
accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, This assessment involves judgement as to: i the likely future a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be would meet the definition of a derivative, and the combined instrument determined: ii future revenues and costs pertaining to any wider is not measured at fair value through the income statement.
cost pool with which the asset in question is associated: and iii the discount rate to be applied to such revenues and costs for the purpose The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on their listed of deriving a recoverable value.
Note 10 discloses the carrying amounts market prices, if available.
If a listed market price is not available, then fair of the Groups E&E assets.
Consequently, major uncertainties affect the value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual recoverability of these costs which is dependent on the Group achieving forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the commercial production or the sale of the assets.
Note 23 discloses contract using a risk free interest rate based on government bonds.
contingencies relating to title risks.
The Company assessed whether these risks are contingencies or indicators of impairment and concluded IFRS 7 requires the classification of fair value measurements using a fair that they are contingencies.
There are licences that are due for renewal in value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making 2011.
The Group is confident they will be renewed.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: b Reserve estimates Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical Estimates of recoverable quantities of proved and probable reserves assets or liabilities.
include assumptions regarding commodity prices, exchange rates, Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 discount rates, production and transportation costs for future cash that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as flows.
It also requires interpretation of complex and difficult geological prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
and geophysical models in order to make an assessment of the size, Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability are not based on observable shape, depth and quality of reservoirs and their anticipated recoveries.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves can impact asset carrying values and the asset retirement obligation due to changes in expected future cash flows.
Reserves are integral to the amount of depletion charged to the income statement and the calculation of inventory.
The level of estimated commercial reserves is also a key determinant in assessing whether the carrying value of any of the Groups development and production assets has been impaired.
c Fair value of financial instruments The Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of the fair value of financial instruments.
Fair values have been determined for measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the following methods: i Non-derivative financial instruments These comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, current tax liabilities and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the applicable market rate of interest at the reporting date.
