Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 06 Statement of directorS reSponSiBilitieS reSponSiBility Statement of the directorS The statement below explains the Directors responsibility for We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: preparation of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
a the financial statements prepared in accordance with the applicable The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and accounting standards give a true and fair view of the assets, Accounts for the Group in accordance with applicable Jersey law liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and regulations.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial b the management report which is incorporated within the Annual statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required Review and the separate Corporate Social Responsibility Report to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with includes a fair review of the development and performance of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the business, the position of the Company and the undertakings by the European Union EU and applicable law.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group going concern and the performance for that period.
After making due enquiries, the Directors have made an informed judgement at the time of approving the Financial Statements, that there In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: making this assessment they have considered the Company and present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Group budgets, the cash flow forecasts and reviewed the availability of that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable banking facilities.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the information: going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand For and on behalf of the Board the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going michael J. hiBBerd concern, it is inappropriate to presume the Company will continue chairman in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that its paul atherton financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 chief financial officer as amended the Jersey Companies Law.
They have general 18 april 2011 responsibility for taking such steps, as are reasonably open to them, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law, regulations and listing rule requirements, the Directors are also responsible for the preparation of a Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the statutory and audited information on the Companys website www.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, may differ from requirements in other jurisdictions.
