Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 notes to tHe ConsoLIdAted FInAnCIAL stAtements 1.
AdoPtIon oF new And revIsed stAndArds The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
With exception to IFRS 3 2008 Business Combination and IAS 27 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements see Note 2, their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFrs 3 2008 Business Combinations: These standards have introduced a number of changes in the accounting for IAs 27 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: business combinations when acquiring a subsidiary or an associate.
IFrs 3 2008 IAs 28 2008 Investments in Associates has also introduced additional disclosure requirements for acquisitions.
Amendment to IFrs 2 Share-based Payment IFrs 2 has been amended, following the issue of IFrs 3 2008, to confirm that the contribution of a business on the formation of a joint venture and common control transactions are not within the scope of IFrs 2.
Amendment to IAs 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition IAs 39 has been amended to state that options contracts between an acquirer andMeasurement and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a business combination at a future acquisition date are not excluded from the scope of thestandard.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFrs 9 Financial Instruments IsA 24 amended Related Party Disclosures IAs 32 amended Classification of Rights Issues IFrIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFrIC 14 amended Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirements Improvements to IFrss may 2010 The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes General Information Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on page 128.
Basis of accounting Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups previously published financial statements were also prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US Dollar as the majority of the Companys business is conducted in US Dollars USD.
Changes in accounting policy The same accounting policies, presentation and methods of computation are followed in the set of financial statements as applied in the Groups latest annual audited financial statements, except as described below.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 and International Accounting Standard 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008.
