Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 notes to tHe ConsoLIdAted FInAnCIAL stAtements 1.
AdoPtIon oF new And revIsed stAndArds The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
With exception to IFRS 3 2008 Business Combination and IAS 27 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements see Note 2, their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFrs 3 2008 Business Combinations: These standards have introduced a number of changes in the accounting for IAs 27 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: business combinations when acquiring a subsidiary or an associate.
IFrs 3 2008 IAs 28 2008 Investments in Associates has also introduced additional disclosure requirements for acquisitions.
Amendment to IFrs 2 Share-based Payment IFrs 2 has been amended, following the issue of IFrs 3 2008, to confirm that the contribution of a business on the formation of a joint venture and common control transactions are not within the scope of IFrs 2.
Amendment to IAs 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition IAs 39 has been amended to state that options contracts between an acquirer andMeasurement and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a business combination at a future acquisition date are not excluded from the scope of thestandard.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFrs 9 Financial Instruments IsA 24 amended Related Party Disclosures IAs 32 amended Classification of Rights Issues IFrIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFrIC 14 amended Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirements Improvements to IFrss may 2010 The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes General Information Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on page 128.
Basis of accounting Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups previously published financial statements were also prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US Dollar as the majority of the Companys business is conducted in US Dollars USD.
Changes in accounting policy The same accounting policies, presentation and methods of computation are followed in the set of financial statements as applied in the Groups latest annual audited financial statements, except as described below.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 and International Accounting Standard 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008.
78 Section Five: Financial statements 5 2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes Continued Changes in accounting policy continued The most significant changes to the Groups previous accounting policies for business combinations are as follows: Acquisition related costs which previously would have been included in the cost of a business combination are included in the unallocated corporate expenses as they are incurred: Any previously held equity interest in the entity acquired is remeasured to fair value at the date of obtaining control, with any resulting gain or loss recognised as a profit or loss: Any changes in the Groups ownership interest subsequent to the date of obtaining control are recognised directly in equity, with no adjustment to goodwill: and Any changes to the cost of an acquisition, including contingent consideration, resulting from events after the date of acquisition are recognised as a profit or loss.
Previously, such changes resulted in an adjustment to goodwill.
The revised standards have been applied to the acquisition of Socit DIndustries Pharmaceutiques Ibn Al Baytar S. A. Ibn Al Baytar and Al Dar alArabia as described in Note 39.
The result has been a total gain of USD 7,176,000 due to the remeasurement to fair value of the previously held equity interests and transaction costs totalling of USD 2,306,000 which have been expensed to general and administrative expenses.
Both the gain and thetransaction costs have been classified as exceptional items as described in Note 5.
Any adjustments to contingent consideration for acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2010 which result in an adjustment to goodwill continue to be accounted for under IFRS 3 2004 and IAS 27 2005.
There have been no such adjustments into the year ended 31 December 2010.
Exceptional items are defined as those that are material in nature or amount and are non-recurring.
These items are disclosed separately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to assist in the understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
The significant accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC the Company and entities controlled by the Company together the Group and the Groups share of the results and net assets of its associates.
Control is achieved where the Company has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies either directly or indirectly of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Anyexcess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Non-controlling interests inthe net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The non-controlling interest is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interest are allocated against the interests of the Parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during theyear are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used inline with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
79 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 notes to tHe ConsoLIdAted FInAnCIALstAtements Continued 2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes Continued Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements see page 53.
Investment in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but not control or joint control over these policies.
Investment in joint venture A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and a third party undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control the venturers.
Each venturer contributes cash or other resources to the jointly controlled entity.
These contributions are included in the accounting records ofthe venturer and recognised in its financial statements as an investment in the jointly controlled entity.
The Group recognises its interest in the joint venture using proportionate consolidation.
The application of proportionate consolidation meansthat the balance sheet of the Group includes its share of the assets that it controls jointly and its share of the liabilities for which it is jointlyresponsible.
Intangible assets a Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value ofthe acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
Iftherecoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce thecarrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
b Marketing rights are amortised over their useful lives commencing in the year in which the rights first generate sales.
c Customer relationships represent the value attributed to the long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date of acquisition and are amortised over their useful economic life.
d Product related intangibles i product files and under-licensed products are assigned indefinite useful lives which are reviewed for impairment at least annually: and ii Under-licence agreements and product dossiers are amortised over their useful lives in the year of acquisition.
e Purchased software is amortised over the useful economic life when the asset is available for use.
f In process research and development recognised on acquisition is amortised over the useful life in the year of acquisition.
g Trade name some trade names are assigned indefinite useful lives and others have finite useful lives over which they are amortised where applicable, in the period from acquisition.
80 Section Five: Financial statements 5 2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes Continued Foreign currencies For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in US Dollars, thefunctional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC and the presentational currency of the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions in currencies other than local currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balancesheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value and the related foreign exchange are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such cumulative translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
revenue recognition Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when goods or services are supplied or made available to external customers against orders received and when title and risk of loss has passed.
Revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction of discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, and allowances given, provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future rebates and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates andreturns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of contractual and historical information and past experience.
Chargebacks The provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the USA the Group sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
The Group also sells its productsindirectly to independent pharmacies, managed care organisations, hospitals, and Group purchasing organisations, collectively referred toas indirect customers.
The Group enters into agreements with its indirect customers to establish pricing for certain products.
The indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which they purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will provide credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the wholesalers invoice price.
This credit is called achargeback.
The provision for chargebacks is based on historical sell-through levels by the Groups wholesale customers to the indirect customers, and estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
As sales are made to large wholesale customers, the Group continually monitors the reserve for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes that actual chargebacks may differ from estimated reserves.
returns and rebates In certain countries and consistent with industry practice, the Group has a product return policy that allows selected customers to return the product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date, in exchange for a credit to be applied to future purchases.
The Group estimates its provision for returns and rebates based on historical experience, changes to business practices and credit terms.
Whilesuch experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, history may not always be an accurate indicator of future returns.
TheGroup continually monitors the provisions for returns and rebates, and makes adjustments when it believes that actual product returns maydiffer from established reserves.
Price adjustments Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the Groups products that customers have remaining in their inventories at the time of the price reduction.
Decreases in selling prices are discretionary decisions made by Group management to reflect competitive market conditions.
Amounts recorded for estimated shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified terms with direct customers, estimated declines in market prices and estimates of inventory held by customers.
The Group regularly monitors these and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as additional information becomes available.
81 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 notes to tHe ConsoLIdAted FInAnCIALstAtements Continued 2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes Continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take asubstantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
To the extent that variable rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash flow hedge of interest raterisk, the effective portion of the derivative is deferred in equity and released to profit or loss when the qualifying asset impacts profit or loss.
Tothe extent that fixed rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective fair value hedge of interest rate risk, the capitalised borrowing costs reflect the hedged interest rate.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
dividend income Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Leasing Leases are classified as capital leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Allother leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the operating lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Assets held under capital leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a capital lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the statement of comprehensive income over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
research and development Research and development expenses are fully charged to the statement of comprehensive income, as the Group considers that the regulatory andother uncertainties inherent in the development of its products generally mean that the recognition criteria in IAS 38 Intangible assets are notmet.
Where, however the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets will be recognised and amortised over their useful economic life.
retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
tax The Group provides for income tax according to the laws and regulations prevailing in the countries where the Group operates.
Furthermore, the Group computes and records deferred tax assets and liabilities according to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enactedby the balance sheet date.
82 Section Five: Financial statements 5 2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes Continued tax Continued Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities andwhen they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on anet basis.
share-based payment transactions Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
share-based payments IFRS 2 Share-based Payments requires an expense to be recognised when the Group buys goods or services in exchange for share or rights over shares share-based payments or in exchange for other equivalent assets.
The cost of share-based payments transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the share basedpayments are granted.
The fair value of the equity-settled stock options scheme is determined using a binomial model.
The fair value of the long-term incentive plan is determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations further details are given in Note 36.
In valuing share-based payments, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the market price ofthe shares of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC.
The cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Where the terms of a share-based payments award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where a share-based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for a cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding share-based payments is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
83 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 notes to tHe ConsoLIdAted FInAnCIALstAtements Continued 2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes Continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for land at the following depreciation rates: Buildings 2% to 4% vehicles 10% to 20% machinery 5% to 33% Fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% A units of production method of depreciation is applied to operations in their start up phase such as the lyophilised manufacturing plant in Portugal asthis reflect the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the assets.
When these assets are fully utilised a straight-line method of depreciation is applied.
Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction has been completed.
Any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant and equipment are capitalised.
Property, plant and equipment which are financed by leases giving Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised at the lower of the fair valueof the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and equipment over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, thecarrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Purchased products are stated at acquisition cost and all other costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost of own-manufactured products comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
In the balance sheet, inventory is primarily valued at standard cost, which approximates to historical cost determined on a moving average basis, and this value is used to determine the cost of sales in the statement of comprehensive income.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made for inventories with net realisable value lower than cost or for slow moving inventory.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
The principal derivative instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward and option contracts.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost and then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designed as fair value hedges are recorded in the statement of comprehensive income, with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designed as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the statement of comprehensive income in line with the hedged forecast transaction.
Hedges of net investments in foreign entities are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the statement ofcomprehensive income.
84 Section Five: Financial statements 5 2. sIGnIFICAnt ACCountInG PoLICIes Continued Financial instruments Continued Investments Available for sale investments with quoted market prices are initially recognised at cost on acquisition and re-measured to their fair values at year-end.
Gains or losses on re-measurement to fair value are recognised in shareholders equity until the investments are sold, disposed of, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gains or loss relating to these investments previously recognised in equity is included in the statement of comprehensive income.
Available for sale financial assets without market prices and the fair value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, less a provision for any impairment loss, which is taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
The fair value of quoted financial assets represents the closing price in the financial markets at the date of the financial statements.
However, the fair value of unquoted financial assets, or those with no declared price are estimated by comparing the fair value of a similar financial instrument or through a discounted cash flow method.
Accounts receivable Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at fair value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life istested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or income-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of theasset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless therelevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate ofits recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined hadno impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated asarevaluation increase.
