Section Five: Financial statements 5 sHAreHoLder InFormAtIon 2011 financial calendar share listings 13 April 2010 final dividend ex-dividend date London Stock Exchange 15 April 2010 final dividend record date The Companys Ordinary Shares are admitted to the Official List of 12 may Annual General meeting the London Stock Exchange.
They are listed under EPIC HIK, SEDOL B0LCW08 GB and ISIN GB00B0LCW083.
26 may 2010 final dividend paid to shareholders Further information on this market, its trading systems and current 25 August 2011 interim results and interim dividend announced trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC shares can be found on the 7 september 2011 interim dividend ex-dividend date London Stock Exchange website www.
9 september 2011 interim dividend record date 13 october 2011 interim dividend paid to shareholders Global Depository Receipts The Company also has listed Global Depository Receipts GDRs Provisional dates.
They are listed under EPIC HIK and ISIN shareholding enquiries US4312882081.
Further information on the Nasdaq Dubai, its trading Enquiries or information concerning existing shareholdings should be systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC GDRs can directed to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars either: be found on the website www.
in writing to shareholder services, Capita registrars, The registry, American Depository Receipt ADRs 34 Beckenham road, Beckenham, kent Br3 4tu: Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc has an ADR programme for which BNY by telephone from within the uk on 0870 162 3100: Mellon acts as Depositary.
One ADR equates to 2 Hikma Ordinary Shares.
ADRs are traded as a level 1 Over-the-Counter OTC by telephone from outside the uk on 44 208 639 2157: or programme under the symbol HKMPY.
Enquiries should be made to: through the website www.
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 358516 dividend payments Currency The Company declares dividends in US Dollars.
Unless you have elected Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 otherwise, you will receive your dividend in US Dollars.
Shareholders Tel: 1 201 680 6825 can opt to receive the dividend in Pounds Sterling or Jordanian Dinar.
Tel: 1 888 BNY ADRS toll-free within the US The Registrar retains records of the dividend currency for each E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com shareholder and only changes them at the shareholders request.
If you wish to change the currency in which you receive your dividend shareholder fraud please contact the Registrars.
The Financial Services Authority has issued a number of warnings to shareholders regarding boiler room scams.
Over the last year many dividend payments Bank transfer companies have become aware that shareholders have received Shareholders who currently receive their dividend by cheque can request unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment a dividend mandate form from the Registrar and have their dividend paid matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target direct into their bank account on the same day as the dividend is paid.
UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be The tax voucher is sent direct to the shareholders registered address.
worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very dividend payments International Payment system persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised to be very If you are an overseas shareholder the Registrar is now able to pay cautious of unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers dividends in several foreign currencies for an administrative charge of of free Company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 5.00, which is deducted from the payment.
Contact the Registrar for further information.
obtain the correct name of the person and organisations: check they are authorised by the FsA by looking the firm up on website www.
uk register: Press releases, the share price and other information on the Group report the matter to the FsA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visit are available on the Companys website www.
uk: if the caller persists, hang up.
Details of the share dealing facilities sponsored by the Company are included in Company mailings and are on the Company website.
The Companys website is www.
com and the registered office is13 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HW.
