Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 notes to tHe ConsoLIdAted FInAnCIALstAtements Continued 3.
CrItICAL ACCountInG JudGements And key sourCes oF estImAtIon unCertAInty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period inwhich the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Groups management believes that, among others, the following accounting policies that involve management judgements and estimates are the most critical to understanding and evaluating the Groups financial results.
Chargebacks see details above revenue recognition The Groups revenue recognition policies require management to make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating to chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
Accounts receivable and bad debts The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level of debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are made when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer probable.
These estimates are based on a number of factors including specific customer issuesand industry, economic and political conditions.
Bad debts are written-off when identified.
Goodwill and intangible assets The critical areas of judgement in relation to goodwill and intangible assets are the useful economic lives of the product-related intangibles, thegrowth rates used in the impairment tests for goodwill and the discount rates used to determine net present values.
Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its business relating to employment, product liability and other commercial disputes.
Often this litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, and therefore the probability of a loss, if any, being sustained or an estimate of the amount of any loss, is difficult to ascertain.
Consequently, it is often not practicable to make a reasonable estimate of the possible financial effect, if any, that could arise from the ultimate resolution of legal proceedings.
In such cases, where the Group believes that disclosure is required, information regarding the nature and facts of the case is disclosed.
For current matters see Note 35.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of the disclosed legal proceeding, based on managements current and considered view, the Group does not expect it to have a materially adverse effect on our financial position.
This position could change over time.
