Section Four: Governance 4 direCtors resPonsiBiLities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the We confirm to the best of our knowledge: financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the statements for the Group in accordance with the International Financial international financial reporting standards as adopted by the eu, Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have also elected give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial the consolidation taken as a whole: and statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the business review, which is incorporated into the directors report, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the IAS 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each business and the position of the Company and the undertakings financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
of transactions, other events and condition in accordance with the By order of the Board definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial said darwazah mazen darwazah Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice Chairman, CEO MENA be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: 15 March 2011 properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in ifrs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
69 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 70
