108 Company information Registered office Corporate website Auditors Principal bankers Registrars Shelley House www.
com Ernst & Young LLP Lloyds TSB Bank plc Capita Registrars 2-4 York Road 1 Colmore Square 25 Gresham Street Northern House Maidenhead Other websites Birmingham B4 6HQ London EC2V 7HN Woodsome Park Berkshire SL6 1SR www.
com Fenay Bridge The Royal Bank of tickets.
com Financial advisors Huddersfield HD8 0GA Scotland Registered number www.
hk Citigroup Centre London EC2M 3UR www.
com 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf Lawyers London E14 5LB Simmons & Simmons Nomura CityPoint 25 Bank Street One Ropemaker Street Canary Wharf London EC2Y 9SS London E14 5LE Contents The basics Overview Inspirational brands 1 Introduction HMV and Waterstones are renowned for their specialist appeal, 2 Strategic progress and future focus offering the widest ranges of entertainment and books in their 4 Market overview markets.
Our stores and the people who work in them strive to 6 Chairmans statement be always passionate and inspirational about the products we sell, Business and financial review: and provide great service and value for money to ensure that our 8 Business review customers get closer to the entertainment they love, or feel every 18 Financial review word between the covers of a good book.
We attract the most enthusiastic customers in our markets, with over 4 million loyalty Governance card holders across both brands.
24 Board of Directors 26 Corporate governance 30 Directors remuneration report 40 Corporate responsibility 46 Directors report 51 Independent auditors report to the members of HMV Group plc Financial statements HMV Waterstones 52 Consolidated income statement In-store In-store 54 Statements of comprehensive income 55 Balance sheets Online & digital Online & digital 57 Statements of changes in equity Live 59 Cash flow statements 60 Notes to the financial statements HMV is evolving rapidly as an entertainment Waterstones is the UKs leading 103 Group financial record brand.
Our market-leading retail businesses bookseller, operating through 314 stores operate through 417 stores in the UK, and a transactional website for the sale Canada, Hong Kong and Singapore and of both physical and e-books for Additional information transactional local territory websites, which download.
An average-size branch of 104 Store and venue directory include digital downloads.
We also operate Waterstones carries a range of 30,000 107 Shareholder information a small specialist chain of entertainment titles, rising to 250,000 titles in our largest 108 Company information shops in the UK trading as Fopp.
Our e-books offer is growing rapidly, entertainment, we operate 12 venues, and our stores and website offer a range summer festivals and ticketing in-store of technology onto which these books and online.
The HMV experience also can be downloaded and enjoyed.
extends to high-quality cinema and pay-to-play games.
Design and production: Radley Yeldar www.
com HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
