Hochschild Mining plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION Hochschild Mining plc hereinafter the Company is a public limited company incorporated on 11 April 2006 under the Companies Act 1985 as a Limited Company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05777693.
The Companys registered office is located at 46 Albemarle Street, London W1S 4JL, United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is Mr Eduardo Hochschild whose beneficial interest in the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Hochschild Mining Group is held through Pelham Investment Corporation, a Cayman Islands company.
On 8 November 2006, the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups principal business is the mining, processing and sale of silver and gold.
The Group has three operating mines Ares, Arcata and Pallancata and a plant Selene used to treat ore from the Pallancata mine located in southern Peru, one operating mine San Jos located in Argentina and one operating mine Moris located in Mexico.
The Group also has a portfolio of projects located across Peru, Argentina, Mexico and Chile at various stages of development.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 March 2011.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are as follows: Equity interest at 31 December 2010 2009 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation % % Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A. formerly Hochschild Holding company Argentina 100 100 Mining Argentina Corporation MH Argentina S. A.
Exploration office Argentina 100 100 Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
Production of gold & silver Argentina 51 51 1,2 Cerro Mining Corp. SubsidiaryBahamas 100 1 Southwestern Gold Bermuda Limited Holding companyBahamas 100 100 1,2 Southwestern Gold China Inc. SubsidiaryBahamas 100 1 0848818 BC Ltd SubsidiaryCanada 100 100 Hochschild Mining Chile S. A.
Holding company Chile 100 100 Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. formerly Minera MH Chile Ltda.
Exploration office Chile 100 100 1 Southwest Minerals Yunnan Inc. SubsidiaryChina 100 100 Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales 100 100 Hochschild Mining Ares UK Limited Subsidiary England & Wales 100 100 1 Southwest Mining Inc. SubsidiaryMauritius 100 100 1 Southwest Minerals Inc. SubsidiaryMauritius 100 100 Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. formerly Hochschild Mining Holding company Mexico 100 100 Mexico Corporation HMX, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 Minera Hochschild Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 Minas Santa Mara fide Moris, S. A. fide C. V. Production of gold & silver Mexico 100 100 Moris Holding, S. A. fide C. V. Holding company Mexico 100 100 Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Service company Mexico 100 100 Hochschild Mining Peru S. A. formerly Hochschild Mining Holding company Peru 100 100 Peru Corporation Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Production of gold & silver Peru 100 100 Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
Production of gold & silver Peru 96.8 96.8 Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 100 100 3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy Not-for-profit Peru 4 Pallancata Holding S. A. C. formerly Compaa Minera Coriorco S. A.
Holding company Peru 100 Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Production of gold & silver Peru 60 60 Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 73 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION CONTINUED Equity interest at 31 December 2010 2009 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation % % Inmaculada Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 Liam Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 1 MInera del Suroeste S. A. C. Exploration officePeru 100100 5 Minera Quellopata S. A. C. Exploration officePeru 6049 Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. Exploration office Peru 100 100 Minera Minasnioc S. A. C. Subsidiary Peru 100 100 Hochschild Mining US Inc. formerly MH Nevada, Inc. Subsidiary USA 100 100 1 These companies were incorporated into the Hochschild Mining Group following the purchase of Southwestern Resources Group on 21 May 2009.
2 On 26 April 2010, Southwestern Gold Bermuda Limited absorbed Cerro Mining Corp. and Southwestern Gold China Inc. 3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy is an unincorporated entity, which receives donations from Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, and spends this money, at the direction of Ares, on the community and social welfare activities located close to its mine units.
As a result, the Group consolidates this entity.
4 On 1 December 2010, Hochschild Mining Peru S. A. absorbed Pallancata Holding S. A. C. 5 On 1 November 2010, Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. increased its interest in Minera Quellopata S. A. C. to 60%.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and the Companies Act 2006.
The Groups Financial Statements are also consistent with IFRS issued by the IASB.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for the effects of adoption of new and amended accounting standards refer to note 2 c. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain classes of property, plant and equipment which were revalued at 1 January 2003 to determine the deemed cost refer to note 2 f, available-for-sale financial instruments and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars $ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Standards, interpretations and amendment to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
This standard clarified the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
The revised standard introduced a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for government-related entities.
The Group does not expect the adoption of this standard to impact its financial position or performance.
Early adoption is permitted for either the partial exemption for government-related entities or for the entire standard.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
This standard changed the definition of a financial liability in order to classify rights issues and certain options or warrants as equity instruments in cases where such rights are given pro rata to all of the existing owners of the same class of an entitys non-derivative equity instruments, or to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount in any currency.
The adoption of this standard will have no impact on the Group after initial application.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
As part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, in November 2009, the IASB issued the first phase of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, dealing with the classification and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the IASB updated IFRS 9 by incorporating the requirements for the accounting for financial liabilities.
However, the Group has determined that the effect shall be quantified in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
Hochschild Mining plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IAS 12 Income Taxes, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
Under IAS 12, an entity is to measure the deferred tax relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use or sale.
The amendment introduces a presumption that recovery of the carrying amount will normally be through sale.
The amendment is deemed to have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Amendment, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies that equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a financial liability qualify as consideration paid.
The equity instruments issued are measured at their fair value.
In case this cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at the fair value of the liability extinguished.
Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The adoption of this interpretation will have no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011.
The IASB issued Improvements to IFRSs, an omnibus of amendments to its IFRS standards.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the above standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Other standards and interpretations not included above are not expected to have an impact on the financial statements.
b Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates are contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
The key areas are summarised below.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Determination of functional currencies note 2 e. Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 f. Determination of ore reserves and resources note 2 h. Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges notes 2 i, l, v and note 15 and 16.
Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs notes 2 p and 26.
Contingent liabilities regarding claims from tax authorities note 34.
Judgement in deciding if a company is a subsidiary of the Group note 2 d. Judgement in deciding if a transaction has to be recognised as an acquisition of assets or business combination note 4 b Recognition of evaluation and exploration assets and transfer to development costs note 2 g. c Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption of new and amended standards.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised January 2008, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard will have an impact on the profit or loss reported in the period of an acquisition, the amount of goodwill recognised in a business combination and the profit or loss reported in future periods.
IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business combinations occurring after 1 July 2009 and had no impact on the financial statements.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 75 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised January 2008, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 27 requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners.
The Group has changed the reference minority interest to non-controlling interest, in accordance with the standard.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
The interpretation had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment addresses the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
The amendment had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Arrangements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The standard has been amended to clarify the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions, where a subsidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but the parent or another entity in the group pays for those goods or services.
IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11 have been withdrawn.
This amendment had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards issued 2009.
Applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IAS 38 Intangible Assets, IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
Effective immediately on issue date in April 2009: IAS 18 Revenue.
Applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, IAS 17 Leases, IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
These improvements had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
d Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position, performance and cash flows as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 and for the years then ended, respectively.
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the amount of shares owned by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
However, non-controlling interests rights to safeguard their interest are fully considered in assessing whether the Group controls a subsidiary.
Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Basis of consolidation prior to 1 January 2010.
Hochschild Mining plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Certain of the above-mentioned requirements were applied on a prospective basis.
The following differences, however, are carried forward in certain instances from the previous basis of consolidation: Non-controlling interest represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
For acquisitions of non-controlling interests, prior to 1 January 2010, the difference between the consideration and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired were recognised in retained earnings.
Losses incurred by the Group were attributed to the non-controlling interest until the balance was reduced to nil.
Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover these.
Losses prior to 1 January 2010 were not reallocated between non-controlling interest and the parent shareholders.
Upon loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date control was lost.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting periods as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests primarily represent the interests in Minera Santa Cruz, Compaa Minera Arcata, Minera Suyamarca and Minera Quellopata S. A. C. not held by the Company.
In the event of a purchase of non-controlling interests when the Group holds the majority of shares of a subsidiary, any excess of the consideration given over the Groups share of net assets is recorded in retained earnings within equity.
Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree's identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the noncontrolling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The minority interest is accounted for using the parent entity extension method, whereby the difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the share in net assets acquired is recognised in goodwill.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
Contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 77 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED e Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the holding companies and operating entities this currency is US dollars and for the other entities it is the local currency of the country in which it operates.
The Groups financial information is presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional currency.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are initially recorded in the functional currency using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions which are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities which are translated at period-end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and transferred to income on disposal of such net investment.
Subsidiary financial statements expressed in their corresponding functional currencies are translated into US dollars by applying the exchange rate at period-end for assets and liabilities and the average exchange rate for income statement items.
The resulting difference on consolidation is included as cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The source of uncertainty is related to the change of exchange rates in the future.
This change could affect the Groups results.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises its purchase price and directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Economical and physical conditions of assets have not changed substantially over this period.
The cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of production on a units of production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations and plant and equipment used in the mining production process, or charged directly to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the individual asset on a straight-line basis when not related to the mining production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect units of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
An assets carrying amount is written-down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other income expenses, in the income statement.
The expected useful lives under the straight-line method are as follows: Years Buildings 3 to 33 Plant and equipment 5 to 10 Vehicles 5 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed where incurred.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for those assets where construction commenced on or after 1 January 2009 and continues to expense borrowing costs related to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009.
For borrowings associated with a specific asset, the actual rate on that borrowing is used.
Otherwise, a weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
The Group capitalises the borrowing costs related to qualifying assets with a value of US$1,000,000 or more, considering that the substantial period of time to be ready is six or more months.
Mining properties and development costs Expenditure on exploration of mining properties is expensed during the exploration phase of a project and capitalised during their development phase when incurred.
Purchased mining properties are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Costs associated with developments of mining properties are capitalised.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of commercial production, depreciated using the units of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves and resources to which they relate.
Hochschild Mining plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Construction in progress and capital advances Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised separately with the carrying amount of the component being written-off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditures are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
g Evaluation and exploration assets Evaluation and exploration expenses shall be capitalised when the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured.
For this purpose, the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured when any of the following conditions are met: The Board authorises management to conduct the feasibility study of a project.
Mine-site exploration is being conducted to convert resources into reserves: or Mine-site exploration is being conducted to confirm resources.
Projects in the development phase Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised as assets from the date that the Board authorises the management to conduct a feasibility study.
Identification of resources Costs incurred in converting inferred resources to indicated and measured resources of which reserves are a component are capitalised as incurred.
Costs incurred in identifying inferred resources are expensed as incurred.
h Determination of ore reserves and resources The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and are stated in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
It is the Groups policy to have the report audited by a Competent Person.
Reserves and resources are used in the units of production calculation for depreciation as well as the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and impairment analysis.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
i Investment in associates The Groups investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised or separately tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of comprehensive income.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
The share of profit of associates is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associate and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each statement of financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 79 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED j Interest in a joint venture The Group has an interest in a joint venture which is a jointly controlled entity, whereby the venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity.
The Group recognises its interest in the joint venture using the equity method of accounting and presents its aggregate share of the profit or loss of joint ventures on the face of its income statement.
The investment is presented as non-current assets on the face of the statement of financial position.
The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
k Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is included in intangible assets and represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Right to use energy transmission line Transmission line represents the investment made by the Group during the period of its use.
This is an asset with a finite useful life that is amortised applying the units of production method.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are primarily computer software which are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life of three years.
l Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
The assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms-length basis.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
m Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods ore inventories is based on the cost of production.
When the production process takes a substantial period of time, borrowing costs are included in the production cost.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Hochschild Mining plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED n Trade and other receivables Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable which on average, do not exceed 30 days.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount and this difference is recognised in the income statement.
o Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Any excess above the par value of shares received upon issuance of those shares is classified as share premium.
p Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event.
It is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost Provisions for mine closure costs are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates and operating lives.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure costs as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at year-end represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future rehabilitation costs required.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the statement of financial position by adjusting the rehabilitation asset and liability.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of rehabilitation provisions exceeds the carrying value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expenses.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Workers profit sharing and other employee benefits In accordance with Peruvian legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
Mexican law also requires Mexican companies to provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 10% of the profit of each year.
This amount is charged to the income statement within personnel expenses refer to note 10 and is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group has no pension or retirement benefit schemes.
Share based payments The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award adjusted by a factor for anticipated relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently remeasured at each accounting date to reflect the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
Uncertainties in estimating the award include potential changes in the TSR, the number of participants in the plan, and levels of interest rates.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
q Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes to the financial information unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed in the notes if their recovery is deemed probable.
r Revenue recognition The Group is involved in the production and sale of gold and silver from dor and concentrate containing both gold and silver.
Concentrate is sold directly to customers.
Dor bars are sent to a third party for further refining into gold and silver which is then sold.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 81 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of concentrate and gold and silver from dor is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has passed to the customer.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The revenue is subject to adjustment based on inspection of the product by the customer.
Revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained gold and silver.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, certain sales are provisionally priced where the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period, normally ranging from 15 to 90 days after the start of the delivery process to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met, using market prices at that date.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract at each reporting date.
The provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotational period ends.
The selling price of gold and silver can be measured reliably as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
Income from services provided to related parties note 30 is recognised in income when services are provided.
s Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest income on funds invested, gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments and gains and losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
t Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, with the following exceptions: Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the statement of financial position date could be impacted.
Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could limit the ability of the Group to obtain tax deductions in future periods.
Hochschild Mining plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED u Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
The depreciation policy for leased assets is consistent with that for similar assets owned.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
v Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as loans or borrowings, receivables, payables, financial instruments fair valued through profit and loss, availablefor-sale financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge refer to note 2 aa, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
When financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and borrowings, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it.
The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way transactions require delivery and receipt of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss includes financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or a financial guarantee contract.
Gains or losses on financial assets held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-forsale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the statement of financial position date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using recent arms-length market transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 83 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, through the use of an allowance account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost, where significant is estimated to be around 30% of the original cost of the investment and prolonged is no more than 12 months.
In addition, the Group analyses any case taking into account the portfolio of projects of the Company, the key technical personnel and the viability of the Company to finance its projects.
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either: a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, a new asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset, is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
A financial liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
w Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Hochschild Mining plc 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED x Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at cost.
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash within three months or less and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Liquidity funds are classified as cash equivalents if the amount of cash that will be received is known at the time of the initial investment and the risk of changes in value is considered insignificant.
y Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Exceptional items mainly include: Impairments of assets, including goodwill, assets held for sale, property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets.
Gains or losses arising on the disposal of subsidiaries, investments or property, plant and equipment.
Fair value gains or losses arising on financial instruments not held in the normal course of trading.
Any gain or loss resulting from any restructuring within the Group.
The related tax impact of the above items.
z Comparatives Where applicable, certain comparatives have been reclassified to present them in a comparable manner to the current periods figures.
aa Hedging The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge its interest rate risks.
These derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, these hedges are classified as cash flow hedges as they are hedging the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction.
At the inception of a hedging relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument's effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item's fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine their effectiveness in the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Where the interest rate swaps meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 85 3 SEGMENT REPORTING The Groups activities are principally related to mining operations which involve the exploration, production and sale of gold and silver.
Products are subject to the same risks and returns and are sold through the same distribution channels.
The Group undertakes a number of activities solely to support mining operations including power generation and services.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to that used for third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include transfers between segments.
Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
For internal reporting purposes, management takes decisions and assesses the performance of the Group through consideration of the following reporting segments: Operating unit Ares, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver.
Operating unit Arcata, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate.
Operating unit Selene, which until June 2009 generated revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate.
The operating unit is no longer considered a reporting segment.
Operating unit Pallancata, which generates revenue from the sale of concentrate.
Operating unit San Jos, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate.
Operating unit Moris, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver.
Exploration, which explores and evaluates areas of interest in brownfield and greenfield sites with the aim of extending the life of mine of existing operations and to assess the feasibility of new mines.
The exploration segment includes expenses reflected through profit and loss and capitalised as assets.
Other for the year 2010 the amount disclosed includes the profit or loss generated by Empresa fide Transmision Callalli S. A. C. a power generation company, Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico S. A. fide C. V. a service company in Mexico, and the Selene mine that closed in 2009 which, as a consequence, was not considered to be a reportable segment.
For the year 2009 the amount disclosed includes the profit or loss generated by Empresa fide Transmision Callalli S. A. C. Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico S. A. fide C. V. and Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
The Groups administration, financing, other activities including other income and expense, and income taxes are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment information is consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Management evaluates the financial information based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Group measures the performance of its operating units by the segment profit or loss that comprises gross profit, selling expenses and exploration expenses.
Segment assets include the items that could be allocated directly to the segment.
2 Segment profit for the operating segments Ares, Arcata, Selene and Pallancata includes an exceptional item in cost of sales of US$8,861,000 refer to note 6 1.
3 Comprised of administrative expenses of US$66,221,000, other income of US$82,802,000, other expenses of US$10,956,000, impairment of assets of US$24,018,000, share of loss of associates and joint ventures of US$6,080,000, finance income of US$13,344,000, finance cost of US$29,542,000, and foreign exchange gain of US$29,000.
4 Includes US$61,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project.
5 Includes goodwill in respect of San Jos amounting to US$2,091,000.
6 Not reportable assets are comprised of intangibles of US$150,000, investments accounted under the equity method of US$79,068,000, available-for-sale financial assets of US$153,620,000, other receivables of US$93,348,000, income tax receivable of US$3,318,000, deferred income tax assets of US$5,229,000, other financial assets of US$20,662,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$525,482,000.
2 Segment profit for the operating segments Ares, Arcata, Selene and Pallancata includes an exceptional item in cost of sales of US$6,918,000 refer to note 6 1.
3 Comprised of administrative expenses of US$51,068,000, other income of US$13,283,000, other expenses of US$20,577,000, impairment of property, plant and equipment of US$26,713,000, share of gains of associates and joint ventures of US$47,223,000, finance income of US$28,684,000, finance cost of US$47,296,000, and foreign exchange loss of US$256,000.
4 Includes US$11,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project.
6 Not reportable assets are comprised of intangibles of US$342,000, investments accounted under the equity method of US$450,665,000, available-for-sale financial assets of US$19,181,000, other receivables of US$91,033,000, income tax receivable of US$10,582,000, deferred income tax assets of US$15,852,000, other financial assets of US$695,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$77,844,000.
Hochschild Mining plc 88 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 3 SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED b Geographical information Based on the entity-wide disclosure stated in IFRS 8, the revenue for the period based on the country in which the customer is located is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 External customer USA 147,701 130,126 Peru 158,540 159,339 Canada 137,713 98,960 Germany 128,834 84,121 Switzerland 88,457 57,549 United Kingdom 38,802 1,925 Korea 52,275 7,721 Total 752,322 539,741 Inter-segment Peru 882 1,161 Mexico 6,110 1,866 Total 759,314 542,768 In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues as detailed in the following table: Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 US$000 % Revenue Segment US$000 % Revenue Segment Arcata Arcata Pallancata Consorcio Minero S. A.
158,464 21% San Jos 155,182 29% San Jos Arcata Arcata Selene Teck Metals Ltd. formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd 137,713 18% Pallancata 98,960 18% Pallancata Selene Selene Pallancata Pallancata Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 128,834 17% San Jos 84,121 16% San Jos Ares Ares Arcata Arcata Selene San Jos San Jos Johnson Matthey Inc. 79,384 11% Moris 47,375 9% Moris Ares Ares Arcata Arcata Selene International Commodities Inc. 42,853 6% Moris 61,979 11% Moris Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 89 3 SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED Based on the entity-wide disclosure requirements set out in IFRS 8, non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and income tax assets, were allocated based on the geographical area where the assets are located as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Peru 399,905 242,170 Argentina 210,265 200,384 Mexico 28,699 49,328 Chile 68 54 Canada 24,902 United Kingdom 79,291 451,038 Total non-current segment assets 718,228 967,876 Available-for-sale financial assets 153,620 19,181 Trade and other receivables 36,817 3,150 Deferred income tax assets 5,229 15,852 Income tax receivable 2,401 1,302 Total non-current assets 916,295 1,007,361 4 ACQUISITIONS a Acquisition of associates Lake Shore Gold Corp. On 9 March 2009 the Group acquired 14,900,000 shares of Lake Shore Gold Corp. Lake Shore Gold for US$18,003,000 as part of its commitment to participate in the bought-deal financing agreement entered into by Lake Shore Gold.
After completion of the transaction, the Groups ownership in Lake Shore Gold was maintained at 39.99%.
On 6 November 2009 Lake Shore Gold acquired all of the outstanding common shares of West Timmins Mining Inc. West Timmins by issuing 103,951,125 common shares and 8,550,264 options and warrants.
At the date of the transaction the Group held an interest of 18.40% in West Timmins acquired between August and November of 2009 for a total consideration of US$63,782,000.
As a consequence of the transaction, the Groups interest in Lake Shore Gold was diluted from 39.99% to 26.10% and a net gain of US$42,279,000 was recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement within the caption Share on post tax profit loss of associates refer to note 18 a.
On the same day, 28,300,000 shares held by the Group in West Timmins were converted into 20,700,000 shares in Lake Shore Gold, increasing the Groups interest in Lake Shore Gold to 32.20%.
During December 2009 the Group acquired an additional interest of 3.88% in Lake Shore Gold for a total consideration of US$86,168,000.
Also, at 31 December 2009 the accumulated interest held by the Group of 36.09% was diluted to 35.69% due to the issuance of a package of shares, options and warrants by Lake Shore Gold.
The total loss recognised in connection with the dilution of US$4,493,000 is recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement within the caption Share on post tax profit loss of associates refer to note 18 a.
On 16 February 2010 the Group acquired 1,273,036 shares of Lake Shore Gold for CAD$5,130,000 US$4,813,000.
After completion of this transaction, the Groups ownership in Lake Shore Gold increased from 35.69% to 35.92%.
At 6 October 2010 the Group diluted its interests in Lake Shore Gold to 32.7%.
On 14 October 2010 the Group entered into an agreement with RBC Dominion Securities Inc. BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. and CIBC World Markets Inc. to dispose of 109,000,000 shares held in Lake Shore Gold approximately 27.3% pursuant to a bought deal transaction, at a price of CAD$3.60 per share.
The sale was completed on 3 November 2010.
After this transaction the Group holds approximately a 5.4% interest, no longer has Board representation and no longer exercises significant influence over Lake Shore Gold refer to note 38 c. Hochschild Mining plc 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 4 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED Gold Resource Corporation In connection with the Strategic Alliance Agreement signed with Gold Resource Corporation GRC, an underground precious metals mining company with a number of development projects in Mexico, the Group purchased 1,670,000 common shares 4.9% for US$5,010,000 on 5 December 2008.
The Group also acquired an option to purchase a further 4,330,000 common shares for US$12,990,000 US$3 per share.
On 25 February 2009, the Group exercised its option to purchase a further 4,330,000 common shares.
As a result of the acquisition of the second tranche, the Group held a 13.6% interest in GRC and appointed one of the four directors, giving the Group significant influence over that company.
In compliance with the Groups policy and IAS 28, the investment has been treated as an associate and accounted for using the equity method since 25 February 2009.
On 30 June 2009, the Group exercised its option to purchase an additional 5,000,000 common shares for a total cash consideration of US$20,000,000.
The purchase was completed in two tranches: US$5,000,000 which closed on 30 June 2009 and a second tranche of US$15,000,000 which closed on 20 July 2009.
On 16 December 2009, the Group purchased 1,954,795 common shares for a total cash consideration of US$16,000,000.
Between 26 January 2010 and 5 February 2010 the Group acquired 440,500 shares of its associate GRC for US$4,351,000 in the open market.
In addition, on 8 March 2010 the Group signed a subscription agreement with GRC by which the Group acquired 600,000 shares for a total consideration of US$5,172,000.
In addition, on 27 May 2010 the Group acquired 631,579 shares of GRC for a total consideration of US$6,000,000.
Following completion of this purchase, the Groups ownership in GRC increased to 25.28% on a fully diluted basis as at 31 December 2010. b Acquisition of assets Minera Quellopata S. A. C. On 13 August 2007, the Group and Ventura Gold Corp. Ventura entered into a letter of agreement by which the Group granted the option to Ventura to earn in an initial interest of 51% in the Inmaculada property located in Peru.
Under the agreement, Ventura was required to drill a minimum of 15,000m and issue 1,000,000 shares of Ventura within a three year period.
Also, to maintain the option, Ventura was required to issue a further 2,000,000 additional shares to the Group between 2011 2015.
On 19 December 2008, Ventura exercised its option to acquire an initial 51% interest in the project after completing the initial drilling and issuing 1,000,000 shares to the Group which was effectively completed during 2009.
"Pursuant to the letter of agreement, the Group and International Minerals corporation IMZ which acquired 100% of Ventura and became party to the letter of agreement formed a Peruvian company called Minera Quellopata S. A. C. ""Quellopata"", owned 51% by IMZ and 49% by the Group and entered into a Shareholders agreement on October 2009 the Quellopata Shareholders Agreement."
The Group contributed the Inmaculada Property and IMZ contributed all the exploration studies, in respect of the Inmacualada property, to Quellopata.
Ventura had the option to acquire an additional 19% interest in the project totalling 70% in exchange for funding the feasibility study within 6 years.
On 12 October 2010, the Group signed a Framework Agreement with IMZ, through which the Group acquired an additional 30% interest in the Inmaculada project totalling 60% in exchange for: i the purchase of US$20,000,000 of common shares in IMZ by way of a private placement, ii a payment of US$15,000,000, iii a commitment to fund the first US$100,000,000 needed to plan, develop and construct a mining operation within the Inmaculada property, iv the transfer of Minera del Suroeste S. A. C. s ownership in Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. to Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Minera Oro Vega which will transfer to Quellopata, together with the Puquiopata project.
The Group will be the operator of the new venture pursuant to a separate Management Agreement similar in form and substance to the Pallancata management agreement.
On 23 December 2010 effective date, the Group signed a new joint venture agreement with IMZ which details the approved structure and plan for the Inmaculada project and terminates the Quellopata Shareholders Agreement and the Pallancata Joint Venture Agreement.
This transaction has been accounted for as an asset acquisition as on the basis that Quellopata has no existing processes.
As a result of the acquisition, the Group obtained control over Quellopata and has consolidated it as a subsidiary.
The net assets received in the asset acquisition were US$91,782,000 and the Non-Controlling Interest generated by the transaction was US$36,940,000.
The Group recognised a contingent consideration of US$39,243,000 and an obligation to IMZ of US$15,594,000 as disclosed in the notes 26 and 24 respectively.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 91 4 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED c Acquisition of subsidiaries Southwestern Resources Corporation On 21 May 2009, the Group acquired a 100% interest of Southwestern Resources Corp.
Southwestern, a mineral exploration company with a number of gold, silver and base metals projects adjacent to the Groups operations in southern Peru.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the negative goodwill arising were as follows: Fair value US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 5,349 Available-for-sale financial assets 949 Investment in associate 361 Property, plant and equipment 24,266 Other assets 200 Deferred income tax liability 3,663 Other current liabilities 522 Net assets 26,940 Negative goodwill arising on acquisition 7,694 Total acquisition cost 19,246 The total acquisition cost of US$19,246,000 comprised a cash payment of US$19,056,000 and cost of US$190,000 directly attributable to the acquisition.
d Acquisition of non-controlling interest Minas Santa Maria fide Moris On 5 June 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 30% interest in Minas Santa Maria fide Moris from its former partner Exmin S. A. fide C. V. obtaining full ownership of its subsidiary for a total cash consideration of US$1,500,000.
In compliance with the Groups accounting policy, the difference between the consideration paid of US$1,500,000 and the carrying value of the non-controlling interest at the acquisition date of US$5,650,000 has been recognised as an increase of retained earnings.
5 REVENUE As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Gold from dor 125,613 107,521 Silver from dor 98,431 71,546 Concentrate 528,173 360,534 Services 105 140 Total 752,322 539,741 The concentrate sold contained: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Gold 118,327 90,516 Silver 409,846 269,930 Other minerals 88 Total concentrate 528,173 360,534 Included within revenue is a gain of US$60,473,436 relating to provisional pricing adjustments representing the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives 2009: gain of US$27,538,526 arising on sales of concentrates and dor refer to notes 2 r and 22 3.
Hochschild Mining plc 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 5 REVENUE CONTINUED The total volumes of gold and silver sold are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 Total in thousands of net ounces: Gold 196 204 Silver 23,506 23,563 6 COST OF SALES Included in cost of sales are: Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Depreciation and amortisation 102,705 102,705 83,426 83,426 1 Personnel expenses 88,194 8,861 97,055 51,284 6,918 58,202 Mining royalty 15,091 15,091 9,458 9,458 Change in products in process and finished goods 3,609 3,609 8,066 8,066 1 The exceptional item corresponds to a one-off bonus paid to the mining workers in Peru.
In 2010 the pre exceptional amount also includes an additional bonus to the mining workers in Peru of US$6,851,000.
7 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Personnel expenses 34,337 25,381 Professional fees 9,557 6,637 1 Social and community welfare expenses 6,686 5,971 Lease rentals 1,176 1,653 Travel expenses 1,756 1,435 Communications 133 125 Indirect taxes 2,008 2,283 Depreciation 1,747 485 Amortisation of software licences 301 311 Contribution to Peruvian Government 1,814 870 Technology and systems 1,354 1,192 Security 437 286 Supplies 250 303 Other 4,665 4,136 Total 66,221 51,068 1 Represents amounts expended by the Group on social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units.
Once an inferred resource has been identified, costs incurred converting it to indicated and measured resources are capitalised.
2 Prospects expenditure relates to detailed geological evaluations in order to determine zones which have mineralisation potential that is economically viable for exploration.
Exploration expenses are generally incurred in the following areas: detail mapping, detail sampling, geophysics, identification of local targets and reconnaissance drilling.
3 Generative expenditure is very early stage exploration expenditure related to the basic evaluation of the region to identify prospects areas that have the geological conditions necessary to contain mineral deposits.
Related activities include regional and field reconnaissance, satellite images, compilation of public information and identification of exploration targets.
4 The exceptional item corresponds to the termination benefits paid to employees of the companies of the Southwestern Group.
The following table lists the liabilities generally payables outstanding at the year end, which relate to the exploration activities of Group companies engaged only in exploration.
Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to the exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Liabilities related to exploration activities 1,117 965 Cash flows of exploration activities are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Payments 21,036 7,469 Hochschild Mining plc 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 9 SELLING EXPENSES As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Transportation of dor, concentrate and maritime freight 7,559 7,493 Sales commissions 1,466 1,145 Personnel expenses 296 270 Warehouse services 15,146 10,223 Other 2,453 1,874 Total 26,920 21,005 10 PERSONNEL EXPENSES As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 1 Salaries and wages 77,803 67,770 2 Workers profit sharing 22,830 2,073 3 Other legal contributions 15,215 8,859 4 Termination benefits 2,768 3,989 Statutory holiday payments 5,406 3,867 Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan 6,975 Other 14,307 6,804 Total 145,304 93,362 1 Included in salaries and wages is the Directors remuneration refer to note 30 b and defined pension contributions of US$283,681 2009: US$440,169.
2 In accordance with Peruvian legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
3 Corresponds to legal obligations for the deposit of compensation for services rendered, pension plans and contributions to Government entities.
4 The 2010 amount includes termination benefits paid to management of US$1,170,140.
The 2009 amount includes US$1,049,000 termination benefits paid to the employees of the companies of the Southwestern Group.
Personnel expenses are distributed as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales refer to note 6 97,055 58,202 Administrative expenses refer to note 7 34,337 25,381 Exploration expenses refer to note 8 7,851 7,134 Selling expenses refer to note 9 296 270 Property, plant and equipment 5,765 2,375 Total 145,304 93,362 Average number of employees for 2010 and 2009 were as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 Peru 2,323 2,282 Argentina 1,083 838 Mexico 160 158 Chile 19 13 United Kingdom 9 8 Total 3,594 3,299 Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 95 11 OTHER INCOME AND OTHER EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Other income: Export incentive 1,843 1,843 1,921 1,921 Gain on recovery of expenses 210 210 472 472 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 153 153 Lease rentals 151 151 302 302 1 Gain on sale of investment in El Quevar 6,0106,010 2 Gain on sale of investment in Zincore Metals Inc. 7,5337,533 3 Gain on sale of investment in Lake Shore Gold 63,65463,654 Recovery of impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank 135 135 584 584 Negative goodwill on acquisition of subsidiary 7,694 7,694 Reversal of ElectroPeru contingency 351 351 Other 3,266 3,266 1,806 1,806 Total 5,605 77,197 82,802 4,501 8,782 13,283 Other expenses: 4 Increase in provision for mine closure 3,839 3,839 11,526 11,526 Write off of value added taxes 949 949 5 Termination benefits 662 662 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 93 93 Loss on sale of other assets 373 373 1,635 1,635 6 Compensation claims provision 378 378 1,850 1,850 7 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 1,252 1,252 1,128 585 1,713 8 Impairment of trade receivables 241 241 1,116 1,116 Other 3,831 3,831 2,075 2,075 Total 10,956 10,956 19,330 1,247 20,577 1 Corresponds to the gain generated due to the sale of the Groups interest in the El Quevar project in Argentina in exchange for 400,000 common shares and a warrant to purchase 300,000 common shares of Golden Minerals at a price per share of US$15.
2 Corresponds to the gain generated by the sale of the Groups interest in Zincore Metals Inc. to Inversiones Pacasmayo S. A. a related party of the Group.
3 Corresponds to the gain generated by the sale of 109,000,000 Lake Shore Gold shares on 3 November 2010 refer to note 4 a.
4 In 2010 corresponds to changes in the estimated mine closure costs of closed operations in Peru of US$3,691,000 2009: US$11,800,000, refer to note 26 1 : together with the loss generated due to the change in the discount rate of US$148,000 2009: net of gain of US$274,000.
5 In 2009 represents the termination benefits paid to the employees due to the closing of the Selene mine.
6 Corresponds to compensation claims provisions related to the Peruvian companies.
7 In 2010 mainly includes the provision of obsolescence of supplies in Compaia Minera Ares and Minera Suyamarca of US$319,000, Minas Santa Mara fide Moris of US$426,000 and Minera Santa Cruz of US$ 486,000.
In 2009 mainly corresponds to the write-off of supplies at the Sipan mine that could not be sold or used in the other mining units of Peru and the obsolescence of supplies at the Selene mine due to the closure of the mine.
8 In 2010 corresponds to the impairment of an account receivable in Compaia Minera Ares.
In 2009 mainly corresponds to the impairment of a trade receivable from a customer in Peru.
Hochschild Mining plc 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 12 FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Finance income: 1 Interest on time deposits 350 350 819 819 2 Gain from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 3,289 3,289 9,045 9,045 3 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 5,713 5,713 623 623 4 Gain on exchange of available-for-sale financial assets 202202 12,632 12,632 Interest on loans to non-controlling interests note 20 2,514 2,514 2,609 2,609 5 Change in discount rate 2832832,837 2,837 Other 993 993 119 119 Total 4,140 9,204 13,344 6,384 22,300 28,684 Finance costs: Interest on bank loans and long-term debt note 25 8,744 8,744 13,976 13,976 Interest on convertible bond note 25 8,588 8,588 1,663 1,663 6 Unwind of discount rate 538 538 278 278 7 Loss from changes in the fair value of forward contracts 3 3 25,962 25,962 8 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 9,091 9,091 2,452 1,256 3,708 Other 2,578 2,578 1,709 1,709 Total 29,542 29,542 46,040 1,256 47,296 1 Mainly corresponds to interest on liquidity funds refer to note 23.
2 In 2010 the amount corresponds to the gain from change in the fair value of Golden Minerals and Iron Creek warrants of US$2,972,000 and US$168,000 respectively.
In addition includes US$149,000 related to the fair value adjustment in acquisition of International Minerals shares on November 2010.
In 2009 the amount mainly corresponds to the gain realised upon the exercise of an option over shares in Gold Resource Corp. on 25 February 2009 of US$5,493,000, the gain of the option contract to buy 3,750,000 shares of Gold Resource Corp. of US$1,912,500 and the change in the fair value of Fortuna Silver Mine Inc. warrants of US$1,639,000.
3 In 2010 corresponds to the gain on sale of Golden Minerals and Fortuna River shares of US$5,833,000 and US$53,000 respectively, net of the loss generated by the sale of Dia Bras Exploration and Lara Explorations Ltd shares of US$152,000 and US$21,000 respectively.
In 2009 corresponds to the sale of 3,287,570 shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. resulting in a realised gain of US$623,000 which has been recycled from equity into the income statement.
4 In 2010 corresponds to the gain for receiving shares of International Minerals Corporation due to the merger with Ventura Gold Corp.
In 2009 mainly corresponds to the gain from change in the fair value of West Timmins Mining Inc. shares due to their exchange for additional Lake Shore Gold shares.
The 2009 amount also includes the gain on receipt of shares of Dia Bras Exploration due to the merger with EXMIN Resources Inc. of US$391,000 and on receipt of shares of Lara Exploration Ltd. due to the merger with Maxy Gold Corp. of US$112,000.
5 Corresponds to the gain arising on the reduction in the discount rate used to calculate the recoverable amount of VAT of Minera Santa Cruz of US$283,000 2009: US$2,837,000 6 Corresponds to the unwind of the discount on the provision for mine closure costs of US$538,000 2009: US$278,000.
7 Corresponds to the realised loss due to changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, being the future contracts of gold and silver signed with Citibank, JP Morgan and INTL Commodities Inc. with the intention to remove the risk of fluctuations in metal prices.
8 Corresponds to the loss due to changes in the fair value of the zero cost collar contracts signed by Cia.
These contracts were over 5,200,000 ounces of silver, with a cap of US$17 oz for 1,400,000 ounces, US$19.5 oz for 400,000 ounces and US$19.95 oz for 400,000 ounces, and a floor of US$11.00 oz, and contracts with a cap of US$20.92 oz and floor of US$13.80 oz for 1,500,000 ounces, and a cap of US$21 oz and a floor of US$14 oz for 1,500,000 ounces.
The contracts expired between January and December 2010.
In addition, this includes a loss of US$1,495,000 2009: US$1,256,000 relating to the fair value of the swap contract signed with BBVA and Citibank to fix the interest rate of the JP Morgan led syndicated loan at 1.75% refer to note 25.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 97 12 FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS CONTINUED Interest income and expense from assets and liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Interest income from financial assets that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 2,864 3,428 Interest expense from financial liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 17,332 15,639 Total 14,468 12,211 13 INCOME TAX EXPENSE Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional 1 items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current tax: Current tax charge from continuing operations 50,138 2,659 47,479 30,946 2,275 28,671 50,138 2,659 47,47930,946 2,275 28,671 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences from continuing operations note 28 27,165 3,127 24,038 12,486 8,943 3,543 27,165 3,127 24,03812,486 8,943 3,543 Withholding taxes 513 513 1,256 1,256 Total taxation charge in the income statement 77,816 5,786 72,030 44,688 11,218 33,470 1 This amount mainly relates to a current tax credit of US$2,659,000 in connection with the one-off bonus paid to the mining workers in Peru 2009: US$2,076,000, and a US$3,127,000 deferred tax credit in connection with a write-off recognised in the period US$9,048,000 in connection with an impairment loss recognised in 2009.
The weighted average statutory income tax rate was 31.4% for 2010 and 30.1% for 2009.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the Group companies in their respective countries as included in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in the weighted average statutory income tax rate is due to a change in the weighting of profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The tax related to items charged or credited to equity is as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Current tax: Current tax charge from continuing operations Deferred taxation: Deferred income tax relating to fair value gains on available-for-sale financial assets 7,189 71 7,189 71 Total tax charge in the statement of other comprehensive income 7,189 71 Hochschild Mining plc 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 13 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED The total taxation charge on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the consolidated profits of the Group companies as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 288,695 154,810 At average statutory income tax rate of 31.4% 2009: 30.1% 90,594 46,702 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,250 2,049 1 Non-taxable income 17,976 6,662 2 Non-taxable negative goodwill 2,308 Deferred tax recognised on special investment regime 629 3 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 14,525 4,222 Non-taxable share of losses gains of associates 1,702 13,276 Net deferred tax assets generated in the year not recognised 8,179 11,204 Change in tax regime 2,002 Change in statutory Income Tax Rate 786 4 Foreign exchange rate effect 430 25 5 Derecognition of deferred tax assets previously recognised 4,790 Other 2,236 1,415 At average effective income tax rate of 25.0% 2009: 21.62% 72,030 33,470 Taxation charge attributable to continuing operations 72,030 33,470 Total taxation charge in the income statement 72,030 33,470 1 Mainly corresponds to the non taxable gain on the sale of Lake Shore Gold shares of US$17,743,000.
2 In 2009, corresponds to non-taxable negative goodwill on acquisition of the Southwestern Group.
3 Mainly corresponds to the use of previously unrecognised tax losses in 2010 of US$15,736,000 US$7,687,000 in 2009, recognised tax losses upon tax restructuring of the Mexican companies of US$6,329,000 US$7,392,000 in 2009, the reversal of the write-off of tax credits of US$4,790,000, previously written off in 2009, following certain steps taken to increase the probability of the assets being available in the future, and the non taxable gain on sale of Zincore Metals Inc. shares of US$2,586,000.
4 Mainly corresponds to the foreign exchange effect from converting tax bases and monetary items from local currency to the functional currency.
5 Relates to the reversal of a deferred tax asset previously recognised, as the ability to utilise this potential deferred tax asset against future taxable profits is now uncertain.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 99 14 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year.
The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, EPS has been calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 Basic and earnings per share from continuing operations: Before exceptional items US$ 0.28 0.17 Exceptional items US$ 0.18 0.14 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.46 0.31 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations: Before exceptional items US$ 0.29 0.17 Exceptional items US$ 0.17 0.14 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.46 0.31 Net profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and attributable to equity holders of the parent is derived as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 Profit for the year from continuing operations US$000 216,665 121,340 Less non-controlling interests US$000 60,054 23,260 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent continuing operations US$000 156,611 98,080 Exceptional items after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 61,687 45,188 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 94,924 52,892 Interest on convertible bond US$000 8,588 1,663 Diluted profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 103,512 54,555 The followings reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: As at 31 December 2010 2009 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 338,085 314,043 Dilutive potential ordinary shares related to convertible bond 18,161 3,564 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and dilutive potential ordinary shares thousands 356,246 317,607 Hochschild Mining plc 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Mining properties Construction and in progress development Land and Plant and Mine closure and capital 1 costs buildings equipment Vehicles asset advances Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2009 Cost At 1 January 2009 237,818 100,393 183,245 3,420 41,681 65,933 632,490 Additions 50,969 381 16,032 160 32,357 99,899 Acquisition of subsidiary 23,800 347 119 24,266 Change in discount rate 1,770 1,770 Disposals 1,148 1,639 96 169 3,052 2 Write-off 27,718 1,894 5,496 162 62 35,208 Change in mine closure estimate 15,220 15,220 Reclassification to intangibles 5,891 5,891 Transfers and other movements 10,244 28,433 255 38,932 Transfer to evaluation and exploration assets 1,921 1,921 Foreign exchange 2,087 3 546 12 33 2,681 At 31 December 2009 283,887 109,127 215,577 3,708 55,131 59,284 726,714 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2009 107,516 21,311 51,628 1,306 33,376 788 215,925 Depreciation for the year 45,229 13,719 23,345 375 1,254 83,922 2 Write-off 26,666 1,147 2,924 80 130 30,687 3 Impairment 9,671 4,390 5,093 50 2,172 310 21,686 Disposals 956 110 1,066 Reclassification to intangibles 606 1,559 2,165 Foreign exchange 141 141 At 31 December 2009 135,750 37,667 74,768 1,541 36,932 1,098 287,756 Net book amount at 31 December 2009 148,137 71,460 140,809 2,167 18,199 58,186 438,958 Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 101 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Mining properties Construction and in progress development Land and Plant and Mine closure and capital 1 costs buildings equipment Vehicles asset advances Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2010 Cost At 1 January 2010 283,887 109,127 215,577 3,708 55,131 59,284 726,714 Additions 71,473 80 14,138 14 1,081 39,572 126,358 Acquisition of subsidiary 5 5 Change in discount rate 989 989 Disposals 1,498 448 1,946 Transfer of leases 717 717 2 Write-off 934 2,705 7,624 43 6,803 18,109 Change in mine closure estimate 1,108 1,108 Transfers and other movements 273 14,438 15,068 366 30,145 Transfer from evaluation and exploration assets 4,249 4,249 Foreign exchange 1,096 8 61 9 17 1,069 At 31 December 2010 360,044 120,948 234,888 3,606 56,093 61,925 837,504 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 135,750 37,667 74,768 1,541 36,932 1,098 287,756 Depreciation for the year 54,027 17,976 26,201 408 3,834 102,446 2 Write-off 201 2,657 5,911 24 8,793 Disposals 648 373 1,021 Transfer of leases 123 123 Foreign exchange 1 45 10 56 At 31 December 2010 189,576 52,987 94,332 1,562 40,766 1,098 380,321 Net book amount at 31 December 2010 170,468 67,961 140,556 2,044 15,327 60,827 457,183 1 The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2010 was US$7,936,000 2009: US$11,177,000.
Additions during the year included US$1,239,000 2009: US$6,058,000 of plant and equipment under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
2 Mainly comprises the effects of the result of the physical verification exercise performed every three years at the Peruvian mine units which resulted in a write-off in the Ares mine unit of US$1,727,000 and in the Pallancata mine unit of US$102,000.
In addition, 2010 includes a write off of US$12,000 in Mxico, US$747,000 in Peru related to the Crespo project and US$6,728,000 in Argentina related to the proposed conversion of San Joss production to dor only.
In 2009, due to the cessation of mining activities at the Selene mine unit, the remaining net book value of assets of US$4,523,000 was written off.
3 During 2010 the Group tested its mine units Arcata, San Jos and Moris for impairment and determined that there was no impairment to be recorded in profit and loss.
At 31 December 2009, the Group recognised impairments totalling US$21,686,000, which included i a charge of US$15,041,000 in respect of the Ares mine unit: ii a charge of US$10,091,000 in respect of the Crespo project: and iii a reversal of the impairment loss in respect of the Moris unit of US$3,446,000.
The trigger for the impairment of Ares was the proximity of the closing and the resulting revision to its remaining recoverable reserves and resources.
In assessing whether an impairment is required to the carrying value of the assets related to each mining unit, its carrying value is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
The recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charges described below is value in use.
The Group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model for each mining unit covering its remaining useful life.
There were no borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment as no significant qualifying assets were constructed during 2010.
Hochschild Mining plc 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED For the 2009 impairment tests the Group utilised the following assumptions: Commodity prices Commodity prices of gold and silver are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Gold prices range from $837.5 oz to $1,015 oz and silver prices range from $13.22 oz to $16 oz.
Estimation of reserves and resources Reserves and resources are based on managements estimates using appropriate exploration and evaluation techniques.
Production volumes and grades Tonnage produced was estimated at plant capacity with 19 days of maintenance per year.
Capital expenditure The cash flows for each mining unit include capital expenditure to maintain the mine and to convert resources to reserves.
Operating costs Costs are based on historical information from previous years and current mining conditions.
Discount rates The cash flows are discounted at real pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit.
2009 Real pre-tax discount rate Mining unit % Ares 3.21 San Jos 14.30 Moris 5.43 16 EVALUATION AND EXPLORATION ASSETS Total US$000 Cost Balance at 1 January 2009 60,480 Additions 8,636 Write-off 284 Foreign exchange 1,606 Transfers and other movements 1,921 Balance at 31 December 2009 72,359 1 Additions 122,764 Foreign exchange 3,058 Transfers and other movements 4,249 Balance at 31 December 2010 193,932 Accumulated impairment Balance at 1 January 2009 15,754 2 Impairment 222 Foreign exchange 555 Balance at 31 December 2009 16,531 2 Impairment 14,702 Foreign exchange difference 888 Balance at 31 December 2010 32,121 3 Net book value as at 31 December 2009 55,828 3 Net book value as at 31 December 2010 161,811 1 Mainly comprises the increase in evaluation and exploration assets due to the acquisition of the subsidiary Minera Quellopata S. A. C. of US$91,507,000 2 The Group has impaired the San Felipe property by US$14,702,000.
The impairment was triggered by the conclusion of the marketing process conducted during the year and reflects the Companys estimate of the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount was based on fair value less cost to sell.
As observable market prices are not available, this was calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
In 2009, the Group also impaired the Ares mine unit by US$222,000.
The trigger for this impairment was the proximity of the closing of Ares and the resulting revision to the remaining recoverable reserves and resources.
3 Of the net book value at 31 December 2010, US$25,874,000 corresponds to the investment in San Felipe 2009: US$37,825,000, US$20,241,000 corresponds to the Azuca project 2009: US$7,079,000, US$91,507,000 corresponds to the Inmaculada project in Peru 2009: Nil and the balance relates to amounts capitalized in respect of converting inferred resources to indicated and measured resources at the Groups unit mines.
There were no borrowing costs capitalised in evaluation and exploration assets.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 103 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Transmission Software Goodwill line licences Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost Balance at 1 January 2009 2,091 913 3,004 Additions 16,266 76 16,342 Reclassification 5,891 5,891 Balance at 31 December 2009 2,091 22,157 989 25,237 Additions 111 111 Balance at 31 December 2010 2,091 22,157 1,100 25,348 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1 January 2009 336 336 Amortisation for the year 2,078 311 2,389 Reclassification 87 87 Balance at 31 December 2009 2,165 647 2,812 Amortisation for the year 2,067 301 2,368 Foreign exchange difference 2 2 Balance at 31 December 2010 4,232 950 5,182 Net book value as at 31 December 2009 2,091 19,992 342 22,425 Net book value as at 31 December 2010 2,091 17,925 150 20,166 The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its value-in-use.
The value-in-use is determined at the cash-generating unit level, in this case being the San Jos mine, by discounting the expected cash flows estimated by management over the life of the mine.
The calculation of value-in-use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Commodity prices Commodity prices of gold and silver are based on prices considered in the Groups 2011 budget 2009: 2010 budget and external market consensus forecasts.
Production volumes and grades Tonnage produced was estimated at plant capacity with 12 days of maintenance per year 2009: 19 days.
Capital expenditure The cash flows for each mining unit include capital expenditures to maintain the mine and to convert resources to reserves.
The pre-tax discount rate used in the 2010 impairment test was 16.63% 2009:14.30%.
Hochschild Mining plc 104 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Management believes that the following changes to the main assumptions would cause the carrying value of the cash generating unit including the goodwill to equal its recoverable amount.
Therefore, any higher deviation would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount and an impairment provision would be required.
2010 2009 Assumption Variation Variation Gold price 13.1 % 6.8 % Silver price 10.7 % 6.3 % Reserves and resources 52.9 % 17.0 % Costs 11.9% 7.9% Discount rates 107.0% 4.3% Headroom for the 2010 and 2009 impairment tests were US$61,523,000 and US$16,732,000 respectively.
Cash flows used for impairment tests were based on the annual 2011 budget presented and approved by the Board in December 2010.
The starting point in all cases was January 2011.
Individual cash flows are based on the annual 2011 budget and an estimated set of reserves and resources as of December 2010 provided by the Explorations and Operations teams.
In addition, in respect of subsequent years, the Group makes the necessary conservative adjustments to accurately reflect the nature of each operation.
In the case of revenue, production figures were estimated assuming reserve grade after extracted tonnage and full capacity.
In the case of operating expenses, all figures are based on the 2011 budget.
Future capital expenditure is based on the 2011 budget, excluding one-off expenses and considering the Operations teams view on developments and infrastructure, according to the estimated set of reserves and resources.
18 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED UNDER EQUITY METHOD Year end 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 a Lake Shore Gold Corp 386,190 b Cabo Sur 57 c Gold Resource Corp. 79,068 62,467 d Zincore Metals Inc. 2,065 Total 79,068 450,665 a Lake Shore Gold Corp The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Lake Shore Gold Corp: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Share of the associates statement of financial position: Current assets 47,520 Non-current assets 345,948 Current liabilities 7,663 Non-current liabilities 50,758 Net assets 335,047 Goodwill on acquisition 51,143 Carrying amount of the investment 386,190 Share of the associates revenue and losses: Revenue 1 Losses profit 9,785 46,951 Carrying amount of the investment 386,190 1 Share of the associates loss in 2010 includes 1 a pre-exceptional loss from the Groups share in the results of the period of Lake Shore Gold of US$1,430,000, 2 an exceptional loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 35.9% to 35.7% on 30 June 2010 of US$2,021,000, 3 an exceptional gain from dilution of the Groups interest from 35.7% to 33.6% on 10 September 2010 of US$3,817,000 and 4 an exceptional loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 33.6% to 32.7% on 6 October 2010 of US$10,151,000.
Share of the associates profit in 2009 includes 1 a gain of US$101,503,000 from the Groups share in Lake Shore Golds acquisition of 100% of West Timmins net assets, 2 a gain from the Groups share in the results of the period of Lake Shore Gold of US$9,165,000, 3 a loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 39.99% to 26.1% on 6 November 2009 of US$59,224,000, and 4 a loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 36.09% to 35.69% on 31 December 2009 of US$4,493,000.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 105 18 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED UNDER EQUITY METHOD CONTINUED On 3 November 2010 the Group disposed 109,000,000 shares held in Lake Shore Gold approximately 27.3% interest for a total consideration of US$374,016,000 generating a gain of US$63,654,000.
After of this transaction the Group no longer has significant influence over Lake Shore Gold.
b Cabo Sur During 2010 the Group sold its interest in Cabo Sur to Mirasol Resources Ltd. for 6,300 Argentinian Pesos approximately US$2,000.
As a result of this transaction the Group no longer has significant influence over this company.
The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Cabo Sur: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures statement of financial position: Current assets 6 Non-current assets 6 Current liabilities 69 Non-current liabilities Net assets 57 Share of the joint ventures revenue and loss: Revenue Loss 6 61 Carrying amount of the investment 57 c Gold Resource Corp.
The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Gold Resource Corp: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Share of the associates statement of financial position: Current assets 15,087 5,671 Non-current assets 56,065 46,873 Current liabilities 1,632 181 Non-current liabilities 14,808 11,609 Net assets 54,712 40,754 Goodwill on acquisition 24,356 21,713 Share of the associates revenue, profit and loss: Revenue 3,730 1 Profit losses 3,711 1,240 Carrying amount of the investment 79,068 62,467 1 Share of the associates profit in 2010 includes 1 a pre-exceptional loss from the Groups share in the results of the period of Gold Resource Corp. of US$3,171,000 2009: US$995,000 and 2 an exceptional gain from dilution of US$6,882,000 2009: loss of US$245,000.
d Zincore Metals Inc. On 21 May 2009, the Group acquired Southwestern Resources Corporation, which resulted in the acquisition of 38,100,000 shares of Zincore Metals Inc. equivalent to a 48.2% interest.
In September 2009, Zincore Metals Inc. issued 24,060,000 shares resulting in a dilution of the Groups interest to 36.8%, which generated a gain by the Group of US$2,065,000.
On 5 March 2010, the Group sold its 36.8% to Inversiones Pacasmayo S. A. a related party of the Group, at a price of C$0.27 per share a total of C$10,287,000 representing a 11.6% premium over the 20 day average closing price, realising a gain on disposal of US$7,533,000.
As a result of the transaction, the Group no longer has an interest in Zincore.
The disposal was approved on behalf of Hochschild by a committee comprising solely independent Non-Executive Directors the Independent Committee.
The Independent Committee was advised by Canaccord Adams Limited that the terms of the disposal were fair and reasonable as far as shareholders are concerned.
Hochschild Mining plc 106 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 18 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED UNDER EQUITY METHOD CONTINUED The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Zincore Metals Inc: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures statement of financial position: Current assets 2,110 Non-current assets 67 Current liabilities 96 Non-current liabilities 16 Net assets 2,065 Share of the joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue Profit 1,704 Carrying amount of the investment 2,065 19 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Beginning balance 19,181 17,794 1 Additions 25,786 70,022 2 Increase in value of available-for-sale financial assets due to merger of companies 4 357 Fair value change recorded in equity 47,573 23,019 3 Disposals 11,924 4,749 4 Reclassification to investments accounted under equity method 87,262 5 Reclassification from investments accounted under equity method 73,000 Ending balance 153,620 19,181 1 The amount represents the fair value of shares at the date of acquisition and mainly includes the purchase of shares of: i International Minerals for US$20,150,000, ii Golden Minerals for US$5,000,000, iii Iron Creek Capital Corp for US$67,000 and iv Brionor Resources for US$568,000 2009: mainly includes the purchase of shares of: i Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. for US$3,196,000, ii Ventura Gold Corp. for US$158,000, iii Pembrook Mining Corp. for US$1,857,000, iv West Timmins Mining Inc. for US$63,782,000, v Northern Superior Resources Inc. for US$705,000, vi Empire Petroleum Corp. for US$82,000, and vii Maxy Gold Corp for US$243,000.
2 In 2010 corresponds to the transfer of shares due to the merger between Ventura Gold Corp. and International Minerals.
In 2009 corresponds to the transfer of shares due to the merger between EXMIN Resources Inc. and Dia Bras Exploration US$325,000 and the merger between Maxy Gold Corp. and Lara Explorations Ltd. US$32,000.
The net effect was recognised in profit and loss.
3 In 2010 corresponds to the sale of i 663,600 shares of Fortuna River, ii 3,751,047 shares of Dia Bras Exploration, iii 495,200 shares of Lara Explorations Ltd. and iv 400,000 shares of Golden Minerals.
In 2009 corresponds to the sale of 3,287,570 shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. refer to note 12.
4 Corresponds to the reclassification to investments accounted under the equity method of the West Timmins Mining Inc. shares of US$82,252,000 and of Gold Resource Corp. of US$5,010,000 on the dates they became associates of the Group.
5 Corresponds to the reclassification of the Groups Lake Shore Gold shares from investments accounted under equity method to available-for-sale financial assets as at 31 December 2010.
The Group does not have significant influence over this company.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Equity securities quoted Canadian companies 131,603 4,225 Equity securities quoted US companies 39 119 Equity securities quoted British companies 8,397 3,086 1 Equity securities unquoted 13,581 11,743 Bonds 8 Total 153,620 19,181 1 Includes Pembrook Mining Corp and Electrum Capital Inc. shares.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 107 19 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED The breakdown of the investments in equity securities held is as follows number of shares : Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares held at held at held at 1 January 31 December 31 December 2009 Additions Transfers Disposals 2009 Additions Transfers Disposals 2010 1 Fortuna River 663,600 663,600 663,600 2 Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. 812,215 2,475,355 3,287,570 Mirasol Resources Ltd 500,000 500,000 500,000 3 Pembrook Mining Corp 5,714,286 1,111,111 6,825,397 6,825,397 4 Gold Resource Corp 1,670,000 1,670,000 Electrum Capital Inc 4,205,462 4,205,462 4,205,462 5 Iron Creek Capital Corp 2,000,000 2,000,000280,000 2,280,000 Mariana Resources Ltd 11,002,948 11,002,948 11,002,948 6 EXMIN Resources Inc 18,387,487 18,387,487 7 Ventura Gold Corp 300,000 700,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 8 West Timmins Mining Inc 28,331,500 28,331,500 Northern Superior 9 Resources Inc 10,053,007 10,053,007 10,053,007 10 Empire Petroleum Corp 1,333,333 1,333,333 1,333,333 11 Maxy Gold Corp 3,961,600 3,961,600 6,12 Dia Bras Exploration 3,751,047 3,751,047 3,751,047 11,13 Lara Explorations Ltd 495,200 495,200 495,200 7 International Minerals 100,000 100,000 14 Brionor Resources 2,730,000 2,730,000 15 Golden Minerals Company 400,000 400,000 16 Lake Shore Gold Corp. 21,540,992 21,540,992 1 The investment in Fortuna River was sold by the Group on 28 April 2010.
2 At 31 December 2009 the Group had sold its total interest in Fortuna Silver Mine.
3 Pembrook Mining Corp. 5.7% is a privately held exploration company with projects in Peru and Canada.
Additions in 2009 relates to the purchase of 1,111,111 common shares on 15 September 2009.
4 The investment in Gold Resource Corp. an underground precious metals mining company with a number of prime development projects in Mexico, relates to the transfer of shares to investments in associates, due to the Groups significant influence following its increased investment in the Company in February 2009.
5 The investment in Iron Creek Capital Corp. 8.6% relates to the purchase of 280,000 common shares on 1 March 2010.
6 In 2009 the Group received shares from Dia Bras Exploration in exchange for its holding of EXMIN Resources Inc. shares, due to the merger of these companies.
This investment is treated as an available-for-sale financial asset on the basis that the Group does not have significant influence over the company.
7 As at 31 December 2009, Ventura Gold Corp. had issued 1,000,000 shares to the Group.
On 12 January 2010 the Group received 100,000 shares of International Minerals in exchange for its holding of 1,000,000 Ventura Gold Corp. shares due to the merger of these companies.
8 The investment in West Timmins Mining Inc. Nil, relates to the purchase of common shares during 2009 which were subsequently transferred under the terms of its business combination with Lake Shore Gold.
9 The investment in Northern Superior Resources Inc. 6.8%, resulted from the acquisition of Southwestern Resources Corp. on 21 May 2009.
10 The investment in Empire Petroleum Corp. 1.6%, resulted from the acquisition of Southwestern Resources Corp. on 21 May 2009.
11 The investment in Maxy Gold Corp. resulted from the acquisition of Southwestern Resources Corp. on 21 May 2009.
In addition, during 2009, the Group received shares from Lara Explorations Ltd. in exchange for its holding of Maxy Gold Corp. shares, due to the merger between these companies.
12 On 12 July 2010 the Group sold its interest in Dia Bras Exploration.
13 Between April and August 2010 the Group sold its interest in Lara Explorations Ltd. 14 The investment in Brionor Resources 9.7% relates to the purchase of shares between March and June 2010.
15 Corresponds to the shares received in exchange for the sale of the Groups interest in the El Quevar project in Argentina.
Between November and December 2010 the Group sold 400,000 shares of Golden Minerals.
16 Corresponds to the reclassification from investment in associates of the Lake Shore Gold shares.
Hochschild Mining plc 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 19 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED During the period there were no reclassifications between quoted and unquoted investments.
The fair value of the listed shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
The investments in unlisted shares Pembrook Mining Corp. and Electrum Capital Inc. were recognised at their acquisition cost given that there is not an active market for these investments.
The investment in Electrum Capital Inc. was impaired in 2008 resulting in a loss of US$2,637,000 recorded in profit and loss.
The investment in Pembrook Mining Corp. is measured at the latest purchase price in Canadian dollars, updated for the foreign exchange difference.
Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Canadian dollars 145,184 15,968 US dollars 39 127 Pounds sterling 8,397 3,086 Total 153,620 19,181 20 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES As at 31 December 2010 2009 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade receivables 89,404 76,981 Advances to suppliers 9,050 5,436 2 Credit from exports 578 4,004 3,587 3 Loan to non-controlling interests 32,165 9,393 39,443 Receivables from related parties note 30 1,609 996 Loans to employees 2,128 3,297 1,276 1,585 Interest receivable 4 38 Receivable from Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank 648 965 Other 25 1,027 22 720 4 Provision for impairment 2,533 2,443 Financial assets classified as receivables 34,896 115,903 1,298 127,308 Prepaid expenses 933 4,252 516 5,454 5 Value Added Tax VAT 988 25,780 1,336 32,102 Total 36,817 145,935 3,150 164,864 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate their book value.
1 At 31 December 2010, trade accounts receivable mainly comprised of amounts receivable from Consorcio Minero S. A. US$11,577,000, Teck Metals Ltd. US$30,274,000, Aurubis AG US$24,802,000, MRI Trading AG US$6,380,000, LS Nikko US$10,691,000, Doe Run Peru SRL US$1,108,000, Johnson Matthey Inc US$4,313,000, Traxis Peru S. A. C. US$34,000 and Argor Heraus S. A. US$215,000.
At 31 December 2009, trade accounts receivable mainly comprised of amounts receivable from Consorcio Minero S. A. US$21,628,000, Teck Cominco Metals Ltd US$17,481,000, Aurubis AG US$29,040,000, MRI Trading AG US$2,078,000, LS Nikko US$4,922,000, Doe Run Peru SRL US$1,108,000, Johnson Matthey Inc US$605,000, and Argor Heraus S. A. US$116,000.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: US dollars 89,394,000 2009: 76,978,000 Peruvian nuevos soles 10,000 2009: 3,000 2 Corresponds to the credits due on exports of Minera Santa Cruz.
3 This relates to loans to Minera Andes Inc.
The effective interest rate was between 7.86% and 8.21% until the renegotiation of the terms of those loans on 17 September 2010 resulting in a change in the interest rate to 7% between 7.86% and 8.21% in 2009 refer to note 37 g. 4 Includes the provision for impairment of trade receivable from a customer in Peru of US$1,108,000 2009: US$1,108,000, the impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander of US$648,000 2009: US$798,000 and other receivables of US$777,000 2009: US$537,000.
5 This includes an amount of US$14,593,000 2009: US$20,838,000 of value added taxes paid in the development and plant expansion of the San Jos project that will be recovered through the future sales of gold and silver by Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
It also includes the VAT of Minera Suyamarca of US$2,282,000 2009: US$4,091,000 and Minas Santa Mara fide Moris of US$2,456,000 2009: US$5,628,000.
The value added tax is valued at its recoverable amount.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 109 20 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables: Individually Collectively impaired impaired Total US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2009 1,987 1,987 Provided for during the year 1,116 1,116 Released during the year 660 660 At 31 December 2009 2,443 2,443 Provided for during the year 241 241 Released during the year 151 151 At 31 December 2010 2,533 2,533 As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade and other receivables net of impairment is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor Less than Over Total impaired 30 days 30 to 60 days 61 to 90 days 91 to 120 days 120 days Year US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2010 150,799 150,799 2009 128,606128,606 21 INVENTORIES As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Finished goods 4,601 6,074 Products in process 17,620 12,538 Raw materials 255 1,002 Supplies and spare parts 33,788 28,610 56,264 48,224 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 1,134 2,411 Total 55,130 45,813 Finished goods include ounces of gold and silver and concentrate.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of silver, gold and minor impurities delivered in bar form to refiners and is considered a product in process.
The refined products are then sold to the customers and or refiners.
Concentrate is a product containing sulphides with variable content of base and precious metals and is sold to smelters.
The amount of dor on hand at 31 December 2010 included in products in process is US$4,995,000 2009: US$2,977,000.
As part of the managements short-term financing policies, the Group acquires pre-shipment loans which are guaranteed by the sales contracts.
The amount of expense recognised in profit and loss related to the inventory is US$67,907,000 2009: US$59,215,000.
The amount of the expense related to the increase of the inventory provision is US$1,252,000 2009: US$1,713,000.
The amount of income relating to the reversal of the inventory provision is US$Nil 2009: US$181,000.
Hochschild Mining plc 110 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 22 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Other financial assets 1 Warrants in Golden Minerals Company 3,982 2 Warrants in Iron Creek Capital Corp. 168 3 Embedded derivatives 16,512 695 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 20,662 695 Other financial liabilities 3 Embedded derivatives 175 Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 175 4 Zero cost collar contracts 2,452 5 Swap contracts 1,930 13 Total derivatives designated as hedge instruments 1,930 2465 Total financial liabilities 1,930 2,640 1 At 31 December 2010, this item represents a balance of 300,000 warrants of Golden Minerals Company.
The expiry date of the warrants is 7January 2013.
Warrants were fair valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
2 At 31 December 2010, this item represents a balance of 280,000 warrants of Iron Creek Capital Corp.
The expiry date of the warrants is 1 March 2012.
3 Sales of concentrate and certain gold and silver volumes are provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded.
The price is then adjusted after an agreed period of time usually linked to the length of time it takes for the smelter to refine and sell the concentrate or for the refiner to process the dor into gold and silver, with the Group either paying or receiving the difference between the provisional price and the final price.
This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The gain or loss that arises on the fair value of the embedded derivative is recorded in Revenue refer to note 5.
4 The Group entered into zero cost collar contracts covering 5,200,000 ounces of silver in 2010, at an average cap price of US$19.7 and an average floor price of US$12.7.
5 At the end of 2009 the Group signed a swap contract with Citibank and BBVA to fix the interest rate of the JP Morgan-led syndicated loan of US$114,320,000 refer to note 25.
23 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 694 1,430 1 Liquidity funds 424,049 28,294 2 Current demand deposit accounts 44,346 40,447 3 Time deposits 56,393 7,673 Cash and cash equivalents considered for the statement of cash flows 525,482 77,844 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their book value.
The Group does not have undrawn borrowing facilities available in the future for operating activities or capital commitments.
1 The liquidity funds are mainly invested in certificates of deposit, commercial paper and floating rate notes with a weighted average annual effective interest rate of 0.26% and a weighted average maturity between 33 to 56 days as at 31 December 2010 2009: 0.71% and between 30 and 55 days refer to note 37 g. 2 Relates to bank accounts which are freely available and bear interest between 0.03% and 1.1%.
3 The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2010 was 1.95% 2009: 3.00%.
These deposits have an average maturity from 1 to 30 days 2009: 1 to 30 days refer to note 37 g. Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 111 24 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES As at 31 December 2010 2009 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade payables 49,407 29,026 Professional fees 1,247 1,179 Interest payable 88 114 Taxes and contributions 11,157 9,061 2 Salaries and wages payable 2,385 21,120 13,275 Mining royalty note 36 3,537 2,192 Dividends payable 339 336 Accrued expenses 8 3,777 81 6,304 Guarantee deposits 2,697 1,307 3 Swap contract 4,337 4 Other 22,705 1,370 Total 2,393 116,074 81 68,501 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
1 Trade payables relate mainly to the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractors services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
Trade payables are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US dollars 18,841 13,783 Peruvian nuevos soles 20,697 9,298 Argentinian pesos 8,295 5,006 Mexican pesos 610 374 Pounds sterling 279 140 Chilean pesos 590 375 Canadian dollars 95 50 Total 49,407 29,026 2 Salaries and wages payable were as follows: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Remuneration payable 16,633 10,956 Board members remuneration 947 2,319 Executive long term incentive plan 5,925 Total 23,505 13,275 3 Corresponds to the amount payable related to the contracts signed with Citibank, JP Morgan and INTL Commodities Inc. with the intention to remove the risk of fluctuations in metal prices.
As these contracts were closed, the Group transferred the balance previously classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit and loss to other payables.
4 Mainly includes an account payable to Internationl Minerals due to the Minera Quellopata transaction of US$15,594,000 refer to note 4 b, the account payable to Iron Creek Capital Corp. of US$615,000 by Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. and the account payable related to the zero cost collar contracts of US$4,179,000 refer to note 12 8.
Hochschild Mining plc 112 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 25 BORROWINGS As at 31 December 2010 2009 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans a 85,525 53,030 115,854 34,773 Amount due to non-controlling interests b 59,028 11,074 75,570 Convertible bond payable c 103,827 5,145 103,827 1,663 Amounts due to related parties note 30 23 902 Total 248,380 69,272 219,681 112,908 a Secured bank loans As at 31 December 2010, the balance corresponds to: i. Pre-shipment loans for a total amount of US$20,000,000 in Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
These obligations accrue an effective annual interest rate ranging from 1.60% to 2.40% and are guaranteed by the inventories and the trade receivables of the company refer to note 21.
Pre-shipment loans are credit lines given by the Banks to pay obligations related to the exports of the Group.
Leasing agreement with Banco fide Credito for an amount of US$3,714,000 in Compaa Minera Ares.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate of 3.25%.
Leasing agreement with BIF for an amount of US$1,363,000 in Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate of 5.5%.
The following table demonstrates the present value and maturity of future minimum lease payments as at 31 December 2010 and 2009: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 3,774 4,406 Between 1 and 2 years 1,279 3,664 Between 2 and 5 years 24 935 Total 5,077 9,005 The following table reconciles the total minimum lease payments and their present values as at 31 December 2010 and 2009: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Present value of leases 5,077 9,005 Future interest 155 718 Total minimum lease payments 5,232 9,723 The carrying amount of net lease liabilities approximate their fair value.
Loan facility with a syndicate of lenders with JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. acting as the Administrative Agent.
Total secured term loan facility of US$200,000,000 that accrues an effective interest rate of LIBOR 1% and is guaranteed by all the equity share capital, free and clear of any liens, of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. The balance as at 31 December 2010 is comprised of the secured term loan facility of US$114,320,000 plus accrued interest of $2,393,000 and net of transaction costs of US$3,235,000.
During 2010 and 2009 the Group has a swap contract with BBVA and Citibank to fix the interest rate of the loan at 1.75%.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 113 25 BORROWINGS CONTINUED The schedule of payments is as follows: Date US$000 13 July 2011 28,560 15 January 2012 28,560 15 July 2012 28,560 13 January 2013 28,640 Total payments 114,320 The Company has granted the following guarantees on its $114,320,000 syndicated loan: Pledge of all shares in Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. CMA wholly-owned subsidiary.
Subsidiary guarantees by certain wholly-owned subsidiaries whereby these subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of the loan with their cash flows.
The main administrative and financial covenants that the Company and CMA must comply with during the term of the syndicated loan are as follows: Provision of quarterly unaudited and annual audited financial statements for Hochschild Mining plc and CMA.
Investments in restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries based on an agreed limit unlimited within restricted subsidiaries.
Maintain the following ratios at a consolidated and CMA level beginning on the date of execution of the agreement and during the term of the loan: Interest expense coverage ratio greater than 3:1.
Debt to EBITDA ratio lower than 2.5:1 from 2009 onwards.
Compliance with the restrictive covenants described in the preceding paragraph is overseen by CMA management and the Administrative Agent.
The Group and CMA have complied with the commitments and financial covenants mentioned in the syndicated loan agreement.
The balance as at 31 December 2009 corresponds to: i. Pre-shipment loans for a total amount of US$8,750,000 in CMA and US$20,000,000 in Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
These obligations accrue an effective annual interest rate ranging from 1.05% to 4.75% and are guaranteed by the inventories and the trade receivables of the Company refer to note 21. ii.
Leasing agreement with Banco fide Credito for an amount of US$5,693,000 in CMA.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate ranging from 6.80% to 7.60%.
Leasing agreement with BIF for an amount of US$3,016,000 entered into by CMA.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate ranging from 7.15% to 8.25%.
Leasing agreement with Interbank for an amount of US$296,000 entered into by CMA.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate of 9.01%.
v. Loan facility with a syndicate of lenders with JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. acting as the Administrative Agent.
Total secured term loan facility of US$200,000,000 that accrues an effective interest rate of LIBOR 1% and is guaranteed by all the equity share capital, free and clear of any liens, of CMA.
The balance as at 31 December 2009 is comprised of the secured-term loan facility of US$114,320,000 plus accrued interest of US$1,787,000 and net of transaction costs of US$3,235,000.
During 2009 the Group signed a swap contract with BBVA and Citibank to fix the interest rate of the loan at 1.75% b Amounts due to non-controlling interests The balance as at 31 December 2010 mainly corresponds to a loan from Minera Andes Inc. to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. for an amount of US$64,070,000 2009: US$67,124,000 with interest rate of 7% 2009: between 7.86% and 12%.
There is a further loan of US$6,032,000 advanced to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. by Minera Andes S. A.
2009: US$8,446,000 with an interest rate of 7% 2009: 12% refer to note 37 g. Hochschild Mining plc 114 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 25 BORROWINGS CONTINUED c Convertible bond payable Placement of US$115,000,000 of senior unsecured convertible bonds, due 2014, which are convertible into ordinary shares of Hochschild Mining plc.
The bonds have a coupon of 5.75% per annum payable semi-annually on 28 January and 28 July of each year.
The issuer has the option to call the bonds on or after 20 October 2012 until maturity in the event the trading price of the ordinary shares exceeds 130% of the conversion price over a certain period.
In addition, the Group has the right to redeem the bonds if at any time the aggregate principal amount of the bonds outstanding is equal to or less than 15% of the aggregate principal amount of the bonds initially issued.
The following information has to be considered for conversion of the bonds into ordinary shares: Conversion premium: 35% above the Reference Share Price.
Fixed Exchange Rate: US$1.59 GBP 1.00.
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Between 1 and 2 years 59,265 31,586 Between 2 and 5 years 136,951 188,095 Over 5 years 52,164 Total 248,380 219,681 The carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
The carrying amount and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: Carrying amount Fair value as at 31 December as at 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Bank loans Secured 85,525 115,854 84,728 116,358 Amounts due to non-controlling interests and related parties fixed rates 59,028 80,184 Convertible bond payable 103,827 103,827 121,709 126,331 Total 248,380 219,681 286,621 242,689 Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 115 26 PROVISIONS Provision Workers Contributions Long-term Bonus to for mine profit to Peruvian Incentive Contingency mining 2 4 Closure sharing Government Plan Consideration workers Other Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2009 38,899 861 991 1,213 41,964 Additions 2,073870 6,918 1,49911,360 Accretion 278 278 Change in discount rate 2,045 2,045 Change in estimate 27,020 27,020 Payments 2,831 948 956 6,918 371 12,024 Foreign exchange 78 12 30 60 Other 88 88 At 31 December 2009 61,321 1,996 893 2,371 66,581 Less current portion 6,640 1,996 893 1,876 11,405 Non-current portion 54,681 49555,176 At 1 January 2010 61,321 1,996 893 2,371 66,581 Additions 1,081 14,4871,8141,061 39,243 15,712 37873,776 Accretion 538 538 Change in discount rate refer to note 11 4 and 15 1,137 1,137 Change in estimate 2,583 2,583 Payments 4,634 2,001 725 8,861 16,221 Foreign exchange 40 162 14 108 80 At 31 December 2010 62,026 14,442 1,820 1,061 39,243 6,865 2,857 128,314 Less current portion 10,592 14,442 1,820 5,859 6,865 2,293 41,871 Non-current portion 51,434 1,061 33,384 56486,443 1 The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the expected date of closure of each of the mines.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on a US Treasury bond of an appropriate tenure as at 31 December 2010 and 2009 respectively, and the cash flows have been adjusted to reflect the risk attached to these cash flows.
Uncertainties in the timing for using this provision includes changes in the future that could impact the time of closing the mines, as new resources and reserves are discovered.
During 2010 the Group made an internal review of the provision for mine closure for all its mining units.
Consequently, at 31 December 2010 an increase of US$3,664,000 addition in estimate of US$1,081,000 plus change in estimate of US$2,583,000 has been recognised mainly related to five additional years of water treatment at the Sipan mine unit.
Of the total amount, US$1,108,000 has been recognised as a decrease in the mine closure asset, US$1,081,000 as an addition refer to note 15 and the remaining US$3,691,000 has been recognised within other expenses refer to note 11 4.
This increase in estimate relates to the Sipan US$3,819,000, Moris US$176,000, Crespo US$620,000, Azuca US$461,000, net of a decrease at Ares US$38,000, Selene US$128,000, Arcata US$4,000, Pallancata US$194,000, and San Jos US$1,048,000.
2 Corresponds to the workers profit sharing of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. US$3,235,000 and Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. US$11,207,000.
3 In May 2010, a grant of awards under the Groups cash based Long-Term Incentive Plan was made.
The awards will rest on satisfaction of a TSR-based performance condition relative to a comparator group comprising international silver and gold mining companies over a three-year performance period.
The performance period runs from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012 and should awards vest a cash payment will be made to participants in May 2013.
Only employees who remain in the Groups employment until this date will be entitled to a cash payment on vesting subject to exceptions approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost of the long-term employee benefit.
In 2010 there is a provision of US$1,061,109 that is disclosed under administrative expenses US$909,154 and exploration expenses US$151,955.
4 This contingent consideration provision relates to International Minerals Corporations discounted share of Hochschilds commitment to fund the first $100,000,000 needed to plan, develop and construct a mining operations within the Inmaculada property refer to note 4 b. Hochschild Mining plc 116 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 27 EQUITY a Share capital and share premium Issued share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 338,085,226 84,521,307 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2009 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 338,085,226 84,521,307 At 31 December 2010 and 2009, all issued shares with a par value of 25p 2010: weighted average of US$0.469, 2009: weighted average of US$0.469 per share each were fully paid.
Rights attached to ordinary shares: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands and on a poll, every member who is present in person or subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every share of which they are the holder proxy.
However in the case of a vote on a show of hands where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member, the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The changes in share capital are as follows: Share Share Number capital Premium of shares US$000 US$000 Shares issued as at 1 January 2009 307,350,226 146,466 395,928 Shares issued and paid pursuant to the placing of shares on 12 October 2009 30,735,000 12,171 Shares issued as at 31 December 2009 338,085,226 158,637 395,928 Shares issued as at 31 December 2010 338,085,226 158,637 395,928 On 12 October 2009 a share placement was completed and 30,735,000 shares with an aggregate nominal value of US$12,171,000 were issued for a cash consideration of US$140,168,000 net of transaction costs of US$3,453,000.
The share placement was effected through a structure which resulted in the excess of the net proceeds received over the nominal value of the share capital issued being transferred to retained earnings.
b Other reserves Unrealised gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Under IAS 39, the Group classifies its investments in listed companies as available-for-sale financial assets and are carried at fair value.
Consequently, the increase in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal or impairment of the investment, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through the income statement.
Unrealised gain loss on cash flow hedges Correspond to the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument refer to note 2 aa Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment account is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries and associates with a functional currency different to the reporting currency of the Group.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets of the Cayman Holding Companies Ardsley, Garrison, Larchmont and Hochschild Mining Peru acquired under the Share Exchange Agreement and the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of such acquisition.
Bond equity component Represents the equity component of the Convertible bond issued on 20 October 2009 refer to note 25 c. When the initial carrying amount of a compound financial instrument is allocated to its equity and liability components, the equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting the fair value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined for the liability component.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 117 28 DEFERRED INCOME TAX The changes in the net deferred income tax assets liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Beginning of the year 5,190 12,619 Income statement charge credit 24,038 3,543 Deferred income tax arising on net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in equity 7,189 71 Initial balance of deferred tax asset of Minera Quellopata S. A. C. 1,762 Reclassification of withholding tax 1,208 Initial balance of deferred tax liability of Southwestern Group 3,663 Foreign exchange effect 238 294 End of the year 23,305 5,190 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset during the year is as follows: Differences in cost Mine Financial of PP&E development instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities: At 1 January 2009 4,341 11,679 1,236 2,306 19,562 Income statement credit charge 1,186 4,977 366 1,447 4,350 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 71 71 Foreign exchange 294 294 Arising on acquisition 3,663 3,663 At 31 December 2009 5,527 20,613 799 859 27,798 Income statement credit charge 10,027 14,101 3,627 1,254 29,009 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 7,189 7,189 Reclassification of withholding tax 1,208 1,208 Foreign exchange 238 238 At 31 December 2010 15,554 34,952 11,615 905 63,026 Differences Provision in cost for mine Tax Interest of PP&E closure losses payable Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets: At 1 January 2009 restated 2,048 5,742 11,559 7,268 5,564 32,181 Income statement credit charge 7,759 770 8,789 942 1,665 807 At 31 December 2009 9,807 4,972 2,770 8,210 7,229 32,988 Income statement credit charge 1,873 1,482 3,846 3,068 838 4,971 Arising on acquisition 1,762 1,762 At 31 December 2010 11,680 6,454 6,616 5,142 9,829 39,721 Hochschild Mining plc 118 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 28 DEFERRED INCOME TAX CONTINUED The amounts after offset, as presented on the face of the statement of financial position, are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets 5,229 15,852 Deferred income tax liabilities 28,534 10,662 Tax losses expire in the following years: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 1 Recognised : Expire in one year 1,100 Expire in two years 763 Expire in three years 607 Expire in four years 849 Expire after four years 23,789 6,044 23,789 9,363 Unrecognised: Expire in one year 624 543 Expire in two years 2,997 1,411 Expire in three years 2,548 3,137 Expire in four years 4,592 2,667 Expire after four years 55,416 53,231 66,177 60,989 Total tax losses recognised and unrecognised 88,313 70,352 1 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that they are expected to be offset against taxable profits arising in future periods, based on the profit forecasts prepared by management.
Other unrecognised deferred income tax assets comprises gross amounts : As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 1 Provision for mine closure 39,350 44,611 2 Impairments of assets 14,702 3 Interest expense and exchange difference loss 13,686 1 This relates to provision for mine closure expenditure which is expected to be incurred in periods in which it is expected that there will not be taxable profits against which the expenditure can be offset.
2 Corresponds to the impairment of the San Felipe project recognised in 2010.
3 Corresponds to interest expense and exchange difference loss in respect of the project finance loan payable to Minera Andes Inc. Unrecognised deferred tax liability on retained earnings At 31 December 2010, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2009: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associate or joint venture as the intention is that these amounts are permanently reinvested.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 119 29 DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2009: US$0.02 2008: US$0.02 6,762 6,147 First interim for 2010: US$0.02 2009: US$0.02 6,761 6,147 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest: US$0.40 2009: US$8.63 and US$0.23 26,000 7,754 Dividends paid 39,523 20,048 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM: Final dividend for 2010: US$0.03 2009: US$0.02 10,143 6,762 Dividends per share The dividends declared in August 2010 were US$6,761,704 US$0.02 per share.
A dividend in respect of the year ending 31 December 2010 of US$0.03 per share, amounting to a total dividend of US$10,142,557 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 2 June 2011.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
30 RELATED-PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS a Related-party accounts receivable and payable The Group had the following related-party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009.
The related parties are companies owned or controlled by the main shareholder of the parent company, joint ventures or associates.
Accounts receivable Accounts payable at 31 December at 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Other Fosfatos del Pacfico S. A.
291 23 Gold Resource Corp refer to note 18 c 1,290 1,609 28 23 Joint ventures Cabo Sur 968 902 968 902 Total 1,609 996 23 902 Current related party balances 1,609 996 23 902 Total 1,609 996 23 902 As at 31 December 2010 and 2009 all other accounts are, or were, non-interest bearing.
No security has been granted or guarantees given by the Group in respect of these related party balances.
Principal transactions between affiliates are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Income Gain on sale of Zincore Metals Inc. shares to Inversiones Pacasmayo S. A. refer to note 18 d 7,533 Dividend recognised for Gold Resource Corp. investment refer to note 18 a 2,633 Revenue recognised for services performed to Gold Resource Corporation 29 Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms-length basis.
Hochschild Mining plc 120 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 30 RELATED-PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED b Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the senior management team and Directors who receive remuneration.
As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Salaries and bonuses 11,121 8,679 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 11,121 8,679 This amount includes the remuneration paid to the Directors of the parent company of the Group of US$6,996,557 2009: US$5,931,185, out of which US$239,975 2009: US$399,117 relates to pension payments.
As at 31 December 2010 2009 Compensation of key management personnel including directors US$000 US$000 Short term employee benefits 6,751 7,971 Termination benefits 1,170 63 Long term incentive plan 2,348 Workers profit sharing 205 99 Others 647 546 Total compensation 11,121 8,679 In 2009, the Group made a loan to one of the Directors of US$200,000 with an interest rate of 7.45% until 30 April 2009, 3.50% from 1 May 2009 to 31 July 2009 and 3.00% from 1 August 2009.
The balance as at 31 December 2010 was nil 2009: US$227,214, composed of principal of US$200,000 and interest of US$27,214.
c Participation in placing by Pelham Investment Corporation Pelham Pelham, a company controlled by the Executive Chairman, Eduardo Hochschild, participated in a placing of the Companys Ordinary Shares Shares in October 2009 by subscribing for 1,064,780 Shares at a price of 295p per Share.
d Purchase of additional interest in Inmaculada project During the year, the Group acquired an additional interest in the Inmaculada project effectively diluting the interest of its jointventure partners, International Minerals Corporation IMZ.
This acquisition qualified as a small related party transaction under the UKLA Listing Rules in light of IMZs 40% interest in the Pallancata Joint-Venture.
See note 4 b for further details.
31 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: Ernst & Young Others year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Audit fees pursuant to legislation 1,250 1,255 38 30 Other services pursuant to legislation 150 188 Other services relating to taxation 139 206 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 241 94 Total 1,780 1,743 38 30 1 Includes US$408,000 2009: US$515,000 relating to the audit fees of the parent company together with a proportion of the fees in relation to the consolidated Group audit which has been incurred by the parent company.
In 2010 all fees are included in administrative expenses, within the professional fees caption refer to note 7.
In 2009, US$1,650,000 are included in administrative expenses, within the professional fees caption refer to note 7, US$66,910 are capitalised due to the Southwestern acquisition and US$55,815 are capitalised within the transactions costs related to the convertible bond issuance.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 121 32 NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 216,665 121,340 Adjustments to reconcile Group operating profit to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation refer to note 15 102,446 83,911 Amortisation of intangibles 2,368 311 Impairment and write-off of assets net 24,018 26,713 Write-off of other receivables 241 Write-off of value added tax 949 Negative goodwill generated in acquisition of subsidiary 7,694 Loss gain on sale disposal of property, plant and equipment 93 153 Loss gain on sale of other assets 373 Transfer of lease contract 594 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 5,915 Gain on sale of investment in associates 77,197 Share of post tax losses gains of associates and joint ventures accounted under equity method 6,080 47,223 Increase in provision for mine closure 3,838 11,526 Unwind of discount of value added taxes 283 Finance income 7,146 28,684 Finance costs 29,542 47,296 Income tax expense 72,030 33,470 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 1,252 1,535 Compensation claims provision 378 Other 469 63 Increase decrease of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities: Trade and other receivables 42,239 19,045 Income tax receivable 7,264 4,690 Derivative financial instruments 27,389 22,831 Inventories 10,095 4,507 Trade and other payables 31,140 3,771 Provisions 21,785 2,195 Cash generated from operations 351,261 215,698 Transactions not affecting cash flows The main transactions that did not affect cash flows and which are not disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements are: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Compensation of income tax payable with value added tax 31,065 Hochschild Mining plc 122 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 33 COMMITMENTS a Mining rights purchase options During the ordinary course of business, the Group enters into agreements to carry out exploration under concessions held by third parties.
Generally, under the terms of these agreements, the Group has the option to acquire the concession or invest in the entity holding the concession.
In order to exercise these options the Group must satisfy certain financial and other obligations during the term of the agreement.
The options lapse in the event that the Group does not meet its financial obligations.
At any point in time, the Group may cancel the agreements without penalty, except where specified below.
The Group continually reviews its requirements under the agreements and determines, on an annual basis, whether to proceed with its financial commitment.
Based on managements current intention regarding these projects, the commitments at the Statement of Financial Position date are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Commitment for the subsequent 12 months 1,208 560 More than one year 5,760 10,436 Some of the significant transactions are explained below: i Andina Minerals Chile Limitada Encrucijada Project On 31 January 2008, the Group entered into an option and joint venture agreement with Andina Minerals Chile Ltda.
Andina to earn a 51% interest in respect of the Encrucijada project located in Chile.
A payment of US$500,000 was made to Andina upon signing of the agreement.
Under the arrangements, the Group had the right to acquire a 51% interest in the project by investing US$3,000,000 within three years.
At 31 December 2010, the Group completed the investment and exercised its option to acquire a 51% interest in the project.
ii Iron Creek Capital Corp. Vaquillas Project On 24 September 2008, the Group signed a letter of intent with Iron Creek Capital Corp. Iron Creek in respect of an option and joint venture agreement to earn a 60% interest in the Vaquillas project, located in Chile.
A payment of US$750,000 was made to Iron Creek upon signing of the letter of intent.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 60% interest by incurring expenditure on exploration activities of US$6,000,000 over a five-year period and is obliged to invest at least US$750,000 before withdrawing from the venture.
At 31 December 2010 the Group completed the investment of US$6,000,000 31 December 2009 US$1,668,000 and exercised its option to obtain a 60% interest over the project.
In addition, the Group participated in a private placement whereby the Group subscribed for shares in Iron Creek for a cash consideration of US$1,000,000, the proceeds of which will be invested in a specific area of the project the Porphiry Area in the two year period from the closing of the private placement.
iii IAMGOLD and Minera Mariana Argentina S. A.
Los Amigos On 5 November 2009, the Group entered into an option and joint venture agreement with IAMGOLD Corporation IAMGOLD and Minera Mariana Argentina S. A. Mariana to explore and develop minerals in the two groups of properties located in Argentina, which comprise the Los Amigos project part of the La Flora property.
At 31 December 2010 the Group invested US$607,000 in the project.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 51% interest in each group of properties by investing US$1,500,000 within two years.
The Group can withdraw from the agreement at any time without incurring any further expenditures or penalties.
iv Sociedad Contractual Minera Valleno Valeriano On 10 November 2010, the Group entered into a purchase option agreement with Sociedad Contractual Minera Valleno amongst others Minera Valleno to earn in a right to 100% of the properties in the Valeriano Project Area located in Chile, currently owned by Minera Valleno.
Upon signing of the agreement the Group paid US$500k to Minera Valleno.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to incur exploration expenditure of US$3,000,000 within three years and is required to undertake exploration works comprising 2,000 metres of drilling by 31 December 2011 and 7,600 metres of drill holes by 31 December 2013.
The Group is able to withdraw from the agreement at any time prior to incurring the required exploration work expenditure to vest the option but after having funded the first US$1,000,000 in exploration expenditure.
As at 31 December 2010 the Group has a provision of US$1,000,000 disclosed in Trade and other payables, under the caption Accrued Expenses.
v Minera Zalamera S. A. fide C. V. Corazn fide Tinieblas On 18 December 2010, the Group entered into a purchase option agreement with Minera Zalamera S. A. fide C. V. Minera Zalamera to earn in a right to 100% of the properties in the Corazn fide Tinieblas Project Area located in Guerrero, Mexico, currently owned by Minera Zalamera.
Upon signing of the letter of intent the Group paid US$10,000 and upon signing the purchase option agreement the Group paid US$25,000 to Minera Zalamera.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$2,100,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$4,000,000 within five years by 31 October 2015.
The Group is entitled to withdraw from the agreement at any time prior to incurring the exploration work expenditure necessary to vest the option.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 123 33 COMMITMENTS CONTINUED b Operating lease contract The Group has a number of operating lease agreements.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the years 2010 and 2009 are included in the production costs and administrative expenses.
As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 2,245 1,777 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,490 2,431 c Finance lease contract During 2009 Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. signed lease agreements for equipment with Banco fide Crdito del Peru, Interbank and Banco Interamericano fide Finanzas refer to note 25. d Capital commitments For the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Peru 39,490 34,089 Mexico 34 247 Argentina 6,200 14,900 45,724 49,236 34 CONTINGENCIES As at 31 December 2010, the Group had the following contingencies: a Taxation Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities for four years in Peru and five years in Argentina and Mexico, preceding the year of review.
During this time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, coupled with the complexity of the Group and the transactions undertaken by it, there remains a risk that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
At 31 December 2010, the Group has exposures totalling US$26,760,000 which are assessed as possible, rather that probable.
No amounts have been provided in respect of these items.
Notwithstanding this risk, the Directors believe that managements interpretation of the relevant legislation and assessment of taxation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained in the event of a challenge by the tax authorities.
Consequently, the Directors consider that they have made adequate provision for any future outflow of resources and no additional provision is required in respect of these claims or risks.
b Other The Group has conducted its operations in the ordinary course of business in accordance with its understanding and interpretation, and based on advice of legal counsel, of applicable legislation in the countries where the Group has operations.
In certain specific transactions, however, the relevant authorities could have a different interpretation of those laws and regulations that could lead to contingencies or additional liabilities for the Group.
Having consulted legal counsel, management believes that it has reasonable grounds to support its position.
The assessment of contingencies inherently involves exercise of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome of future events.
Uncertainties in estimating the liability includes changes in the legal interpretation that the authorities could make in respect of the Groups transactions.
Hochschild Mining plc 124 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 35 GUARANTEES AND TAX STABILITY AGREEMENTS a Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. CMA Arcata Unit On 31 July 2007, the Ministry of Energy and Mines granted legal stability to CMA for the Arcata operating unit, starting 1 January 2009 for a 10-year term.
Under the terms of the arrangement, the Peruvian Government is obliged to guarantee stability of the tax regime that was in effect as at 5 February 2007, for a period of 10 years.
On 8 June 2009, CMA effectively resigned part of the stability agreement as the actual income tax rate 30% was lower than the rate included in the stability agreement 32%.
b Minera Santa Cruz S. A. MSC MSC has been granted with tax stability certificates in relation to provincial and national taxes in Argentina in respect of the San Jos mine.
The stability certificates run for a 30-year period commencing on 21 November 2005.
Under these certificates and the Mining Investment Law No 24,196, MSCs tax stability in respect of the San Jos operating unit covers, among others, the following areas: The mining royalty cannot exceed 3% of the pit-head value of the production.
In accordance with such 3% cap, the Provincial Government fixed the mining royalty applicable to the San Jos operating unit at: i 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production where the final product is dor: and ii 2.55% of the pit-head value of the production where the final product is mineral concentrate or precipitates.
The National Export tax is 5% where the final product is dor and 10% when the final product is gold or silver concentrate although rebates are available for the first three years, if shipped from port 3%, 2% and 1% rebate for years 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively.
Income tax rate no higher than 35%.
36 MINING ROYALTY Peru In accordance with Peruvian legislation, owners of mining concessions must pay a mining royalty for the exploitation of metallic and non-metallic resources.
Mining royalties are calculated with rates ranging from 1% to 3% of the value of mineral concentrate or equivalent, based on the quoted market prices.
As at 31 December 2010, the amount payable as mining royalties for the mining units of Ares, Arcata and Pallancata amounted to approximately US$2,946,000 Ares, Arcata, Selene, and Pallancata amounted to US$1,988,000 as at 31 December 2009, and is recorded under the caption Trade and other payables in the Statement of Financial Position.
The amount recorded in the Income Statement was US$11,223,000 2009: US$7,287,000.
Argentina In accordance with Argentinian legislation, Provinces being the legal owners of the mineral resources are entitled to request royalties from mine operators.
For San Jos, the mining royalty is fixed at 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production where the final product is dor and 2.55% where the final product is mineral concentrate or precipitates.
As at 31 December 2010, the amount payable as mining royalties amounted to US$591,000 2009: US$204,000.
The amount recorded in the income statement was US$3,868,000 2009: US$2,171,000.
37 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial impact on the Group and which also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks and are further categorised into risk areas to facilitate consolidated risk reporting across the Group.
The Group has made significant developments in the management of the Group's risk environment which seeks to identify and, where appropriate, implement the controls to mitigate the impact of the Groups significant risks.
This effort is supported by a Risk Committee with the participation of the CEO, the Vice Presidents, the Country General Managers and the head of the internal audit function.
The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups policy on risk management and internal control in support of the Companys business objectives, and monitoring the effectiveness of risk management within the organisation.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 125 37 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED a Foreign currency risk The Group principally produces silver and gold which are typically priced in US dollars.
A proportion of the Groups costs are incurred in pounds sterling, Peruvian nuevos soles, Argentinian pesos and Mexican pesos.
Accordingly, the Groups financial results may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the local currency.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and currencies in the countries in which the Group operates provides a certain degree of natural protection.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its foreign currency risks.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities, at the reporting date denominated in their respective currencies, to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
Increase decrease in Effect US$ other on profit Effect currencies before tax on equity rate US$000 US$000 Year 2010 Pounds sterling 10% 107 840 Argentinian pesos 10% 227 Mexican pesos 10% 679 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 852 Canadian dollars 10% 415 14,519 2009 Pounds sterling 10% 194 309 Argentinian pesos 10% 22 Mexican pesos 10% 400 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 3,431 Canadian dollars 10% 1,596 b Commodity price risk Silver and gold prices have a material impact on the Groups results of operations.
Prices are significantly affected by changes in global economic conditions and related industry cycles.
Generally, producers of silver and gold are unable to influence prices directly: thus, the Groups profitability is ensured through the control of its cost base and the efficiency of its operations.
Whilst committed to being un-hedged, management continuously monitors silver and gold prices but shall take the necessary action, where appropriate and within Board approved parameters, to mitigate the impact of this risk.
During 2008, as a result of the financial crisis, the Company found itself constrained in its ability to use its cash balance given uncertainty surrounding commodity prices.
Authorisation was granted to hedge a portion of the Group's 2009 and 2010 production schedule in order to allow the Company to free-up its cash balance in order to pursue higher growth opportunities through acquisition and strategic investments.
The Group also has embedded derivatives arising from the sale of concentrate and dor which were provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded refer to notes 5 and 22 3.
For these derivatives sales price adjustments and hedges, the sensitivity of the fair value to an immediate 10% favourable or adverse change in the price of gold and silver assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows: Increase Effect decrease on profit price of before tax Year ounces of: US$000 2010 Gold 713 10% Silver 5,334 10% 2009 Gold 550 10% Silver 1,534 10% 766 Hochschild Mining plc 126 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 37 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED c Credit risk Credit risk arises from debtors inability to make payment of their obligations to the Group as they become due without taking into account the fair value of any guarantee or pledged assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk as a result of commercial activities and non-compliance, by counterparties, in transactions in cash which are primarily limited to cash balances deposited in banks and accounts receivable at the statement of financial position date.
Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, including embedded derivatives, cash balances in banks and hedging activities as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009: Credit Credit As at rating or % As at rating or % 31 December collected as 31 December collected as 2010 at 24 March 2009 at 23 March US$000 2011 US$000 2010 Summary commercial partners Trade receivables Teck Metals Ltd formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. 30,274 BBB 17,481 BB Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 24,802 99% 29,040 91% Consorcio Minero S. A.
215 100% 116 100% Traxys Peru S. A. C. 34 0% Others 10 0% 3 NA 89,404 76,981 Credit Credit As at rating or % As at rating or % 31 December collected as 31 December collected as 2010 at 24 March 2009 at 23 March Summary commercial partners Embedded derivatives US$000 2011 US$000 2010 Teck Metals Ltd formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. 6,464 BBB 497 BB Consorcio Minero S. A.
2,916 A1 187 A1 Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 2,498 99% 248 91% MRI Trading AG 245 92% 96 98% Argor Heraus S. A.
24 100% Traxys Peru S. A. C. 18 0% 16,512 520 Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 127 37 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 Credit 2009 Credit 1 1 Financial counterparties US$000 rating US$000 rating JP Morgan 380,887 A 13,024 A 1 S&P Citibank 92,406 A 40,348 A 1 S&P Banco Nacional fide Mxico 5,350 F1 FR Banco fide Crdito del Peru 30,474 BBB 11,691 F2 FR Banco fide la Nacin Peru 1,072 A S&P Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 5,426 AA 199 A 1 S&P Banorte 1,519 BBB TD Canada Trust 956 Banco Santander 900 AA 1,001 A 1 S&P HSBC 618 AA 818 B S&P Bank of Montreal 598 A Scotiabank 74 AA 67 A 3 S&P Others including cash in hand 11,624 NA 4,274 NA Total 525,482 77,844 1 As at 31 December 2010, the Group included the long term credit rating.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group included the short term credit rating.
As a result of the recent financial crisis, the Group evaluated and introduced additional efforts to try to mitigate credit risk exposure.
To manage the credit risk associated with commercial activities, the Group took the following steps: Active use of prepayment advance clauses in sales contracts.
Delaying delivery of title and or requiring advance payments to reduce exposure timeframe potential delay in sales recognition.
Obtaining parent guarantees to shore up the credit profile of the customer where possible.
Maintaining as diversified a portfolio of clients as possible.
Limiting delivery of product to the extent possible based on open exposures.
To manage credit risk associated with cash balances deposited in banks, the Group took the following steps: Increasing banking relationships with large, established and well-capitalised institutions in order to secure access to credit and to diversify credit risk.
Investing cash to the extent possible with counterparties with whom the Group has debt outstanding.
Investing cash in short-term, highly liquid and low risk instruments money market accounts.
Maintaining excess cash abroad in hard currency.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 20.
There are no exposures related to loans to non-controlling interest.
d Equity risk on financial instruments The Group acquires financial instruments in connection with strategic alliances with third parties.
The Group constantly monitors the fair value of these instruments in order to decide whether or not it is convenient to dispose of these investments.
The disposal decision is also based on managements intention to continue with the strategic alliance, the tax implications and changes in the share price of the investee.
Hochschild Mining plc 128 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 37 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments excluding embedded derivatives from provisionally priced sales, with all other variables held constant: Effect Increase on profit Effect decrease in before tax on equity Year prices US$000 US$000 2010 25% 1,895 38,405 25% 2,066 38,300 2009 10% 1,917 10% 1,917 e Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 31 December 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Embedded derivatives refer to note 22 3 16,512 16,512 Equity shares refer to note 19 153,620 140,039 13,581 Warrants 4,150 4,150 Liabilities measured at fair value Swap contracts refer to note 22 5 1,930 1,930 31 December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Embedded derivatives refer to note 22 3 695 695 Equity shares refer to note 19 19,173 7,430 11,743 Debt securities refer to note 19 8 8 Liabilities measured at fair value Embedded derivatives refer to note 22 3 175 175 Zero cost collars contracts refer to note 22 4 2,452 2,452 Swap contracts refer to note 22 5 13 13 During the period ending 31 December 2010 and 2009, there were no transfers between these levels.
The reconciliation of the financial instruments categorised as level 3 is as follows: Embedded Embedded derivatives derivatives Equity assets liabilities shares US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 31 December 2009 695 175 11,743 Gain from the period recognised in revenue refer to note 5 15,817 175 Fair value change through equity 1,838 Balance at 31 December 2010 16,512 13,581 Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 129 37 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups inability to obtain the funds it requires to comply with its commitments, including the inability to sell a financial asset quickly enough and at a price close to its fair value.
Management constantly monitors the Groups level of short and medium-term liquidity, and their access to credit lines, in order to ensure appropriate financing is available for its operations.
In 2009 the Group increased its short term bank lines by over 30% in addition to accessing further long-term financing through the issue of equity and convertible bonds.
In 2010 the Group has maintained these short term bank lines.
The table below categorises the undiscounted cash flows of Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period as at the statement of financial position to the contractual maturity date.
Interest cash flows have been calculated using the spot rate at year end.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact loans and borrowings by changing either their fair value fixed rate debt or their future cash flows variable rate debt.
The Group does not have a formal policy of determining how much of its exposure should be at fixed or at variable rates.
However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings, management applies its judgement to decide whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate borrowing would be more favourable to the Group over the expected period until maturity.
It is important to note that currently all existing financial obligations are either at fixed rates or have been fixed with the use of derivatives.
As at 31 December 2010 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 23 694 694 Time deposits note 23 56,393 56,393 Loans to non-controlling interests note 20 9,393 1,173 2,047 28,945 41,558 Amounts due to non-controlling interests note 25 11,074 1,668 5,196 52,164 70,102 Secured bank loans note 25 53,030 57,597 27,928 138,555 Convertible bond payable note 25 5,145 103,827 108,972 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 23 380,887 380,887 Hochschild Mining plc 130 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 37 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED As at 31 December 2009 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 23 1,430 1,430 Time deposits note 23 7,673 7,673 Loans to non-controlling interests note 20 39,443 39,443 Amounts due to non-controlling interests note 25 75,570 75,570 Secured bank loans note 25 34,773 31,586 84,268 150,627 Convertible bond payable note 25 1,663 103,827 105,490 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 23 12,994 12,994 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable movement in the interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the financial instruments with a floating rate.
The Group is exposed to the fluctuation of rates expressed in US dollars.
This assumes that the amount remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2010 and 2009 and that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the year.
In reality, the floating rate will fluctuate over the year and interest rates will change accordingly.
Increase Effect decrease on profit interest before tax Year rate US$000 2010 50bps 1,904 2009 50bps 490 h Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Management considers as part of its capital, the financial sources of funding from shareholders and third parties refer to notes 25 and 27.
Even though management aims to maintain the Groups debt free position in order to offer shareholders maximum exposure to commodity prices, other than for the use of short term pre-shipment financing financing of commercial accounts receivables and finished goods inventory, management reserves the right to raise financial debt in order to fund new future operations and or mergers and acquisitions activity.
Should such an event occur, financial leverage would be kept within an appropriate level: Less than 2.5x EBITDA 2010: 0.77x Less than 20% of Capital Structure Debt plus Market Capitalisation 2010: 0.08x All leverage incurred beyond the use of short-term pre-shipment credit lines, is reviewed and approved by the Board.
Management also retains the right to fund operations fully owned and joint ventures with a mix of equity and joint venture partners debt.
Debt financing provided by joint venture partners is not included within the thresholds described above.
Financial statements Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 131 38 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS a Repayment of syndicated loan facility led by JP Morgan On 28 January 2011, the Group repaid the total outstanding principal amount of US$114,320,000 plus interest of US$383,448 under the syndicated loan facility led by JP Morgan.
In addition, on 31 January 2011, the Group cancelled the two interest rate swap contracts signed with Citibank and BBVA related to this facility.
The amount paid to cancel these contracts was US$1,667,500.
b Payment of Project Finance Loan interest and receipt of interest from Minera Andes Inc MAI In January 2011, Minera Santa Cruz S. A. paid US$9,120,786 of interest that had arisen under the Project Finance Loan from MAI.
In addition, the Group collected the same amount from MAI, representing interest on the Project Finance Loan advanced by the Group to MAI.
c Sale of remaining interest in Lake Shore Gold On 2 December 2010 the Group entered into a Block Trade Letter Agreement the Agreement with RBC Capital Markets to dispose of the Groups remaining 21,540,992 common shares in Lake Shore Gold approximately 5.4% interest in Lake Shore Gold on a fully diluted basis at a price of CAD$3.70 per share raising total net proceeds of CAD$79,701,670.
Due to the size of the combined sales the initial disposal of 27.3% of Lake Shore Gold in November 2010 and the subsequent disposal of the remaining 5.4%, the second transaction was subject to shareholder approval which was granted on 8 February 2011.
The transaction closed on the same date and a gain of US$4,950,000 will be recognised in 2011 in respect of the disposal.
