Hochschild Mining plc 164 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shareholder information Annual General Meeting AGM Investor relations The AGM will be held at 10am on 2 June 2011 at the offices of For investor enquiries please contact: Jane Flynn, Investor Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ.
Relations Associate by writing to the London Office address see below, by phone on 020 7907 2933 or by email at jane.
Company website Hochschild Mining plc Interim and Annual Reports and results Financial calendar announcements are available via the internet on our website at www.
Shareholders can also access the Dividend payments latest information about the Company and press Ex-dividend date 11 May 2011 announcements as they are released, together with details of Record date 13 May 2011 future events and how to obtain further information.
Deadline for return of currency election form 17 May 2011 Final dividend payable 7 June 2011 Registrars The Registrars can be contacted as follows for information Other dates about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and to report changes in personal details: Annual General Meeting 2 June 2011 Half-yearly results announced August 2011 By post Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, London Office and Registered Office address Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU 46 Albemarle Street By telephone London If calling from the UK: 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 10p per minute W1S 4JL plus network extras, lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Mon to Fri United Kingdom If calling from overseas: 44 20 8639 3399 By fax Company Secretary 44 0 1484 600 911 R D Bhasin Currency option and dividend mandate Shareholders wishing to receive their dividend in US dollars should contact the Companys registrars to request a currency election form.
This form should be completed and returned to the registrars by 17 May 2011.
The Companys registrars can also arrange for the dividend to be paid directly into a shareholders UK bank account.
To take advantage of this facility, a dividend mandate form, also available from the Companys registrars, should be completed and returned to the registrars by 17 May 2011.
This arrangement is only available in respect of dividends paid in UK pounds sterling.
Shareholders who have already completed one or both of these forms need take no further action.
Forward looking statements The constituent parts of this Annual Report, including those that make up the Directors Report, contain certain forward looking statements, including such statements within the meaning of Section27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In particular, such forward looking statements may relate to matters such as thebusiness, strategy, investments, production, major projects and their contribution to expected production and other plans of Hochschild Mining plc and its current goals, assumptions andexpectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements typically containing words such as intends, expects, anticipates, targets, plans, estimates and words of similar import.
Bytheir nature, forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc may be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to differences between the actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc and current expectations include, but are not limited to, legislative, scal and regulatory developments, competitive conditions, technological developments, exchange rate uctuations and general economic conditions.
These factors, risks and uncertainties are further discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report in the section entitled Risk Management.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
The forward-looking statements reect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report.
Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, the Board ofHochschild Mining plc does not undertake any obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reect events occurring after the date of this Annual Report.
Nothing in this AnnualReport should be construed as a profit forecast.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Printed by the Midas Press This report is printed on stock which is certied asFSC Mixed Sources and is completely biodegradable and recyclable Hochschild Mining plc 46 Albemarle Street London W1S 4JL United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 207 907 2930 Fax: 44 0 207 907 2931 info@hocplc.
