FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Home Retail Group plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Group the Group, is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is a home and general merchandise retailer.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 April 2010.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared under the historic cost basis modi ed for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share-based payments and post-employment bene ts.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in note 3.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate parent company Home Retail Group plc, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and nancing policies are controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control was transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Home Retail Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other interested parties under a contractual agreement.
Associates are entities over which the Group has signi cant in uence but not control.
The equity method is used to account for investments in joint ventures and associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its joint ventures and associates are included on the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses are recognised in its income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying value of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in a joint venture or associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Business combinations Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of business acquisitions is the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if they meet the fide nition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Changes in accounting standards The Group has adopted applicable new standards and amendments to existing standards which are effective for the first time in the current year as follows: IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires segmental information reported to be based on that which the Group Board and Operating Board use internally for the purposes of evaluating the performance of the Groups businesses and making decisions about resource allocation between operating segments.
The Group adopted IFRS 8 with effect from 1 March 2009.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has not resulted in a change to the Groups reportable segments.
60 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 IA S 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
Entities can choose whether to present a single performance statement being a statement of comprehensive income or two statements being an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present two statements: an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
T he amendment to IFRS 7 Reclassi cation of Financial Instruments has enhanced the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements and reinforced existing principles for disclosure about the liquidity risk associated with financial instruments.
The Group adopted the amendments to IFRS 7 with effect from 1 March 2009.
The vesting conditions and cancellations amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment would normally have been effective for the first time for the current year, however it was early-adopted by the Group during the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009.
The Group has also adopted IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes with effect from 1 March 2009, but this has had no material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
Other new standards, amendments and interpretations are also effective for the first time for the current year, but have had no material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
At the balance sheet date a number of amendments to existing standards were in issue but not yet effective: A mendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: A mendment to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items: A mendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-Based Payment: and I FRS 3 revised Business Combinations.
The Group has not early-adopted any of these amendments to existing standards.
Their impact will be fully considered in due course.
There are no other new standards or IFRICs not yet effective which are expected to have a material impact.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, will, by fide nition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods where appropriate.
The estimates and assumptions that have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Signi cant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension bene ts The present value of the fide ned bene t obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the fide ned bene t obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant scheme assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
The expected return on scheme assets is calculated by reference to the scheme investments at the year-end and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the year-end.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated future cash out ows expected to be required to settle the fide ned bene t obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for fide ned bene t obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant year-ends and additional information is disclosed in note 24.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment loss on an annual basis, based on the recoverable amount, being the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The value-in-use calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash ows and suitable discount rates as disclosed in note 14.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Impairment of assets Assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Assets are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the expected cash ows from the asset at an appropriate discount rate for the risks associated with that asset.
This includes estimates of both the expected cash ows and an appropriate discount rate which use managements assumptions and estimates of the future performance of the asset.
Differences between expectations and the actual cash ows will result in differences in the level of impairment required.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if there has been a signi cant change in the underlying assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount, however not to an amount higher than the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of amortisation or depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised in prior years.
Provisions Provisions have been estimated for onerous leases, self insurance and other liabilities.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular store or the incidence of insurance claims against the Group.
Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made.
Inventory provisions Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the future.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and returns.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods to be delivered is recognised when the customer receives delivery of the goods.
The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to the standard retail price.
Revenue is adjusted to show sales net of all related discounts.
Commissions receivable on the sale of services for which the Group acts as agent are included within revenue.
A provision for estimated returns is made, representing the profit on goods sold during the year which will be returned and refunded after the year-end.
Interest income Interest income on customer store card accounts and loans is recognised as revenue using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial information is presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash ow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement as appropriate.
62 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 Group companies The results and financial position of overseas Home Retail Group entities are translated into sterling as follows: a ssets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: in come and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and a ll resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identi able net assets of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, re ecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash ow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satis ed.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and how the asset will generate probable future economic bene t. The cost of other intangible assets with nite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, they are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Brands Acquired brands have a nite useful life and are initially recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated to spread the cost of the brands over their estimated useful lives of 10 years on a straight-line basis.
This amortisation method reects the pattern in which the assets future economic benets are expected to be consumed.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benets beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over 3 to 10 years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at cost being the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash ow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups businesses.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: leasehold premises are depreciated over the period of the lease: plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over 2 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: land is not depreciated: and assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
Receivables Trade Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the balance sheet, with the cost of unrecoverable trade receivables recognised in the income statement immediately.
Financial services The gross margin from the sale of a retail product on extended credit terms is recognised at the time of the sale of the retail product.
Income under instalment agreements is credited to the income statement using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
The cost bases in use within the Group are general retail goods valued on a standard cost or weighted average basis which approximates to actual cost.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash ow hedges relating to their purchase.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Current asset investments Current asset investments includes cash on deposit held with banks, with original maturities of greater than three months.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
They are classi ed as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost.
Borrowings and borrowing costs All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value and other borrowing costs is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Current and non-current tax Current tax and non-current tax are based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
64 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: t he Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: i t is more likely than not that an out ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and t he amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an out ow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an out ow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks speci c to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Provisions are made for onerous lease contracts for stores that have closed or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading revenue is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Provisions are also made for legal claims, restructuring costs and estimated cost of claims incurred by the Groups captive insurance company but not settled at the balance sheet date.
Operating leases Leases in which a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the life of the lease.
Post-employment bene ts The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of fide ned benefit pension plans is the present value of the fide ned benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The fide ned benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected-unit credit method.
The present value of the fide ned benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For dened contribution pension plans the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benets, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Catalogue costs Costs incurred during the production of the Groups catalogues are deferred on the balance sheet net of any associated advertising revenue and marketing support until the catalogue is made available to the Group, at which point the net deferred cost is charged to the income statement.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year-end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are approved by the shareholders.
Insurance Certain of the Groups insurance policies are maintained by the Groups captive insurance company, Global Guernsey Limited, which accounts for all insurance business on an annual basis and the net consolidated result is dealt with as part of the operating costs in these financial statements.
Insurance premiums in respect of insurance placed with third parties and re-insurance premiums in respect of risks not retained by the Groups captive insurance company are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Financial instruments The Group classi es its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classi cation depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classi cation of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss Financial assets and liabilities at fair value are so designated by management on initial recognition.
Derivatives are generally designated as hedges.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss are initially recorded at fair value with gains or losses arising from changes in their fair value presented in the income statement.
Items in this category are classi ed as current assets or current liabilities if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classi ed as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and current asset investments in the balance sheet.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as either cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash ows of hedged items.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Cash ow hedges The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the future purchases of inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would be recognised immediately in the income statement.
The hedged cash ow is expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement via inventory carrying value as applicable.
66 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward currency exchange contracts hedging the Groups exposure to foreign currency liabilities is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares granted is recognised as an expense after taking into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revisits the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimate.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models, or closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
Non-GAAP financial information Exceptional items Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant income statement line.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of underlying performance of the Group.
Examples of items which may be recorded as exceptional items are impairment charges, restructuring costs and the profits losses on the disposal of businesses.
Benchmark operating profit and benchmark profit before tax benchmark PBT The Group use the terms benchmark operating profit and benchmark PBT as measures which are not formally recognised under IFRS.
Benchmark operating profit is dened as operating profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases, exceptional items and costs related to demerger incentive schemes.
Benchmark PBT is dened as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases, exceptional items, costs related to demerger incentive schemes, nancing fair value remeasurements, nancing impact on retirement benefit obligations, the discount unwind on non-benchmark items and taxation.
These measures are considered useful in that they provide investors with an alternative means to evaluate the underlying performance of the Groups operations.
Total net debt The Group uses the term total net debt which is considered useful in that it provides the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably operating leases.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risk factors There are a number of financial risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group: market risk foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identi es, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties.
The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, and to ensure suf cient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and pro tably.
Policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors as well as subject to internal audit review.
Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with external banks.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
The key objective of the Groups foreign exchange transaction exposure management is to minimise potential volatility in pro ts which could arise as a result of exchange rate uctuations whilst maintaining an appropriate competitive stance.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group will initially seek to hedge up to 90% of any foreign exchange transaction risks expected to arise as a result of uncertain, but probable, foreign currency cash ows up to 14 months forward.
This subsequently increases to 100% as cash ows become certain.
For segment reporting purposes, each subsidiary designates contracts as fair value hedges or cash ow hedges, as appropriate.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated as hedges of foreign exchange risk on speci c assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposure of future purchases of inventory.
Weekly reports are made to management to demonstrate that this objective is being achieved.
The hedged cash ows are expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement or inventory carrying value as applicable.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not hedged.
If on 27 February 2010, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 3.3% 2009: approximately 3.5%, weaker stronger against the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 5.9m lower higher 2009: 6.7m lower higher mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains arising on retranslation of US dollar denominated balances in subsidiary companies with a sterling functional currency.
Equity would have been 13.6m higher lower 2009: 11.7m higher lower, arising mainly from the revaluation of US dollar forward currency contracts.
If on 27 February 2010, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 4.5% 2009: approximately 4.4%, weaker stronger against the euro, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 3.6m lower higher 2009: 5.0m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on retranslation of sterling denominated cash balances in subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Equity would have been 2.0m higher lower 2009: 0.4m lower higher, arising mainly from foreign exchange gains or losses on retranslation of euro-denominated net assets held by subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Market risk cash ow and fair value interest rate risk Whilst the Groups Financial Services business has gross instalment receivable balances on xed interest rates and oating rates, the Groups income and operating cash ows are still considered to be substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group currently holds a net cash position and has undrawn borrowing facilities.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from the variance in market rate when deposits are made.
This risk is managed by combining overnight deposits with term deposits.
Interest rate risk also arises from any future long-term borrowings that it may incur.
Borrowings issued at xed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The principal objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage the trade-off between obtaining the most beneficial effective rates of interest whilst minimising the impact of interest rate volatility on profits before tax.
The aim will normally be to manage interest rate risks by achieving a ratio of between 30% and 70% of net debt xed rate.
68 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 The Group had no borrowings at any point during the year.
Credit risk The Group has no signi cant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of financial services products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Customers are credit scored using an external credit agency.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash, via major debit and credit cards or via in-house or third-party operated financial products.
The Groups exposure to credit risk with regard to treasury transactions is managed by dealing only with major banks and financial institutions.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Foreign exchange counterparty limits are set for each organisation on a scale based on credit rating and maturity period.
Group policy is that cash is only deposited with major banks and financial institutions that satisfy the Groups credit requirements.
These credit requirements are assessed by reference to published credit ratings and the extent of UK Government investment, and are applied in combination to determine both the maximum amount and the maximum duration of cash deposits.
A minimum credit rating of at least AAStandard & Poors or Aa3 Moodys is required, unless the UK Government has a signi cant investment, in which case a minimum credit rating of at least A Standard & Poors or A1 Moodys is required.
The above policy re ects revisions which have been made during the year, to take account of developments impacting the economic climate of banks and financial institutions.
Each deposit made by the Group during the year was compliant with the policy which was effective at the date of the deposit.
Where a term deposit has been made and the counterparty ratings have subsequently reduced, each relevant position has been reviewed and any decision to maintain a position until the normal maturity date has been approved by the Board.
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings as follows: Cash and term deposits and current asset investment Cash and Current Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term asset rating at rating at cash deposits investment a transaction date 27 February 2010 Maturity date m m AAA AAA n a 164.0 AA AA 10 May 2010 50.0 AA AA 28 April 2010 50.0 A A 3 March 2010 50.0 A A 22 March 2010 50.0 A A 26 April 2010 50.0 364.0 50.0 a The current asset investment comprises a term cash deposit invested for a period of six months.
Cash and Current Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term asset rating at rating at cash deposits investment b transaction date 28 February 2009 Maturity date m m AAA AAA n a 134.4 AA AA 7 April 2009 25.0 AA A 15 April 2009 75.0 A A 7 April 2009 50.0 209.4 75.0 b The current asset investment comprised a term cash deposit invested for a period of nine months.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts 2010 2009 Bank and institution rating at year end m m AA 12.5 6.7 AA- 8.3 14.1 A 20.5 22.9 A 2.4 8.4 A- 4.0 47.7 52.1 Of the 47.7m 2009: 52.1m marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts held at the year-end, 39% 2009: 84% will have matured within three months of the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Home Retail Group manages its cash and committed borrowing facilities to maintain liquidity and funding exibility.
Liquidity is achieved through arranging funding ahead of requirements and maintaining suf cient undrawn committed facilities to meet short-term needs.
At 27 February 2010, the Group had an undrawn committed borrowing facility available of 700m, 685m of which does not expire until 2013.
This facility includes a covenant related to adjusted benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent.
It is in place to enable the Group to finance its working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes, should the need arise.
The Group has not drawn down on the facility and has been in compliance with the requirements of the covenant throughout the year.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
At 27 February 2010 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 599.2 599.2 At 28 February 2009 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 574.1 574.1 When a forward foreign exchange contract matures, this requires an out ow of the currency being sold and an in ow of the currency being bought.
The table below analyses the Groups out ow and in ow from derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
At 27 February 2010 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts out ow 318.0 256.0 196.0 99.6 869.6 in ow 336.6 271.9 204.9 103.9 917.3 70 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 At 28 February 2009 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts out ow 324.4 232.1 92.6 22.8 671.9 in ow 368.2 239.7 93.0 23.1 724.0 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal and ef cient capital structure.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group nances its operations through a combination of retained pro ts, property leases and borrowing facilities where necessary.
The Group has signi cant liabilities through its obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as debt when evaluating financial risk and investment returns.
The Groups net debt varies signi cantly throughout the year due to trading seasonality, and the position as at 27 February 2010 is set out in the analysis of net cash debt on page 59.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 2010 2009 US dollar 1.59 1.77 1.52 1.43 Euro 1.13 1.22 1.12 1.13 Fair value estimation Effective 1 March 2009, the Group adopted amendments to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in level 1 and comprise investments in quoted managed indexed funds.
As at 27 February 2010, these instruments, which are classi ed as available-for-sale financial assets, had a carrying value of 12.5m 2009: 8.5m.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity speci c estimates.
If all signi cant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
As at 27 February 2010, these derivative instruments used for hedging purposes had a net carrying value of 47.7m 2009: 52.1m.
If one or more of the signi cant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
The Group has no level 3 instruments to disclose.
Speci c valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: Q uoted market prices: and T he fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The Board of Directors and Operating Board review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports, which re ect the distinct retail brands and different risks associated with the different businesses.
The Group is organised into three main business segments: Argos, Homebase and Financial Services together with Central Activities.
The Board of Directors and Operating Board assess the performance of the operating segments based on a combination of revenue and benchmark operating pro t. Benchmark operating pro t is fide ned within note 3.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 m m Revenue Argos 4,346.8 4,281.9 Homebase 1,571.9 1,513.2 Financial Services 104.0 102.3 Central Activities Total segment revenue 6,022.7 5,897.4 Benchmark operating pro t loss Argos 266.2 303.6 Homebase 41.2 14.9 Financial Services 5.7 6.1 Central Activities 23.4 24.2 Total segment benchmark operating pro t 289.7 300.4 Benchmark interest 5.2 29.7 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 2.0 2.4 Benchmark profit bef ore tax 292.9 327.7 Exceptional items 694.0 Demerger incentive schemes 7.7 8.4 Financing fair value remeasurements 2.7 28.9 Financing impact on retirement bene t obligations 0.7 11.2 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 6.7 1.8 Onerous lease provision releases 12.5 Pro t loss before tax 293.0 394.2 Taxation 83.2 18.9 Pro t loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 209.8 413.1 The result for Financial Services is after deducting funding costs of 3.5m 2009: 13.6m note 10.
72 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 2010 2009 m m Segment assets Argos 2,364.1 2,391.9 Homebase 896.4 914.7 Financial Services 453.6 455.8 Central Activities 37.1 40.2 Total segment assets 3,751.2 3,802.6 Tax assets 112.1 102.5 Current asset investments 50.0 75.0 Cash and cash equivalents 364.0 209.4 Total assets per balance sheet 4,277.3 4,189.5 Segment assets include goodwill and other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment in joint ventures and associates, inventories, trade and other receivables and other financial assets.
Tax assets, current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents are not allocated to segments.
Central Activities segment assets include 8.2m 2009: 8.4m in respect of joint ventures and associates.
2010 2009 m m Segment liabilities Argos 695.4 647.1 Homebase 523.9 547.8 Financial Services 54.6 61.4 Central Activities 51.9 58.6 Total segment liabilities 1,325.8 1,314.9 Tax liabilities 60.0 69.8 Retirement bene t obligations 24.9 46.4 Total liabilities per balance sheet 1,410.7 1,431.1 Segment liabilities include trade and other payables, provisions and other financial liabilities.
Tax liabilities and retirement bene t obligations are not allocated to segments.
52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 65.0 34.2 2.5 101.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 25.7 2.1 0.6 28.4 Impairment of xed assets 16 Impairment of goodwill 14 Share-based payment expense 29 6.4 3.6 0.5 9.9 20.4 Additions to property, plant and equipment 16 39.1 30.9 3.7 73.7 Additions to intangible assets 15 16.2 1.3 17.5 The share-based payment expense within Central Activities includes 6.3m 2009: 8.6m relating to demerger incentive schemes for all Group employees which, together with national insurance costs of 1.4m 2009: 0.2m credit, total 7.7m 2009: 8.4m, and are excluded from benchmark pro t before tax.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 79.8 52.5 2.4 134.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 22.6 1.5 0.6 24.7 Impairment of xed assets 16 152.2 152.2 Impairment of goodwill 14 381.7 381.7 Share-based payment expense 29 5.1 2.8 0.3 13.1 21.3 Additions to property, plant and equipment 16 58.6 48.4 3.9 110.9 Additions to intangible assets 15 39.2 1.6 3.9 44.7 Geographical segments The Group trades predominantly in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and consequently the majority of revenues, capital expenditure and segment net assets arise there.
ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 m m Sale of goods 5,918.7 5,795.1 Provision of services by Financial Services 104.0 102.3 Total 6,022.7 5,897.4 7.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Before Exceptional exceptional items Total items note 9 Total Expenses by function m m m m Net operating expenses comprise: Selling costs 1,396.8 1,444.4 301.7 1,746.1 Administrative costs 275.8 287.2 392.3 679.5 Total net operating expenses 1,672.6 1,731.6 694.0 2,425.6 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Notes m m Pro t loss before tax is stated after charging crediting: Operating lease rental expense Plant and equipment 9.1 9.8 Property 370.0 363.0 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 3,922.6 3,742.8 Write down of inventories 133.0 131.0 Loss pro t on sale of property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 101.7 134.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 28.4 24.7 Employee bene t costs 8 778.2 776.9 74 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Auditors remuneration m m Audit services: Fees payable for the audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.8 Other services: Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 services relating to taxation 0.1 0.1 all other services 0.1 0.2 Total fees payable to  LLP 1.0 1.2 The above disclosure is presented in accordance with SI 2005 2417, where audit fees in respect of the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation are included within other services.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS AND EMPLOYEE NUMBERS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Employee costs Notes m m Wages and salaries 693.3 686.7 Social security costs 42.0 42.3 Post-employment bene ts 24 22.5 26.6 Share-based payments 29 20.4 21.3 778.2 776.9 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 28 February 2009 Number of Full time Number of Full time Average number of employees employees equivalent employees equivalent Argos 32,886 17,124 33,199 17,811 Homebase 18,842 10,259 19,951 11,455 Financial Services 535 462 553 487 Central Activities 45 43 42 41 52,308 27,888 53,745 29,794 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Key management compensation m m Short-term employee bene ts 6.0 2.8 Post-employment bene ts 1.3 1.4 Share-based payments 4.8 3.7 12.1 7.9 Key management consists of the members of the Home Retail Group plc Board and the managing directors of both retail businesses.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 9.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 m m a Goodwill impairment 381.7 b Store impairment charges 152.2 c Onerous lease provisions 117.3 d Costs relating to the post-acquisition integration of the Focus DIY stores 7.6 e Reorganisation and restructuring charges 35.2 Exceptional items in operating pro t loss 694.0 Tax on exceptional items in profit loss before tax 58.8 f Exceptional corporation tax credit 27.4 g Exceptional deferred tax charge 3.9 Exceptional tax 82.3 Exceptional loss for the year 611.7 a I n the prior year management interpreted the economic environment and resulting retail downturn as an external indicator of impairment.
As a result, and as required by IAS 36, the assets of the business were subject to an impairment review.
Details of the goodwill value-in-use calculations can be found in note 14.
For the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009, this resulted in an impairment charge in respect of the Homebase goodwill of 381.7m.
b A s a result of the impairment review detailed above, certain assets were written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
The growth rates and discount rates used were consistent with those used in the goodwill calculations, as disclosed in note 14.
For the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009, this resulted in a net impairment charge in respect of the Homebase store portfolio of 152.2m.
c The onerous lease provisions cover potential liabilities for onerous lease contracts for stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading income is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Where the value-in-use calculation is lower the provisions are based on the present value of expected future cash ows, discounted at a pre-tax rate of 5.8%, relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected sublet income.
For the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009, this resulted in an onerous lease charge in respect of the Homebase store portfolio of 117.3m.
d Represents costs relating to the post-acquisition integration of certain of the Focus DIY stores acquired in the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008. e Represents costs relating to the reorganisation and restructuring programme during the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009.
Actions taken included a streamlining of head of ce functions across all parts of the Group, restructuring of store-based staff and a consolidation of home delivery warehouses.
f Represents the recognition of a corporation tax credit arising from the revision and agreement of prior year tax computations and the completion of a periodic review of the tax risks associated with the Groups overseas trading operations.
g The prior year deferred tax charge of 3.9m represented the reversal of a deferred tax asset created on IFRS transition.
76 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 10.
NET FINANCING INCOME EXPENSE 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 m m Finance income: Bank deposits and other interest 4.4 18.6 Expected return on retirement bene t assets 34.6 45.1 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange gains 7.1 Total finance income 46.1 63.7 Finance expense: a Unwinding of discounts 9.4 4.3 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange losses 4.4 28.9 Interest expense on retirement bene t liabilities 35.3 33.9 Total finance expense 49.1 67.1 Less: finance expense c harged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.5 13.6 Total net finance expense 45.6 53.5 Net nancing income 0.5 10.2 a Included within unwinding of discounts is a 6.7m 2009: 1.8m charge relating to the discount unwind on exceptional onerous lease provisions.
TAXATION 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Analysis of charge in year m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 78.5 94.5 Double tax relief 1.7 1.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 26.9 27.7 Total current UK tax charge 49.9 65.2 Overseas tax 2.8 3.1 Total current tax charge 52.7 68.3 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 11.2 53.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 19.3 4.2 Total tax charge in income statement 83.2 18.9 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 11.
TAXATION CONTINUED 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Tax included in other comprehensive income m m Cash ow hedges 4.6 6.5 Retirement bene t obligations 1.8 37.9 Share-based payments 0.5 1.1 Total tax charge credit in other comprehensive income 5.9 32.5 Factors affecting the tax charge The effective tax rate for the year of 28.4% 2009: 4.8%, is higher 2009: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% 2009: 28.0%.
The differences are explained below: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 m m Pro t loss before tax 293.0 394.2 Pro t loss before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 82.0 110.4 Effects of: Benchmark: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 10.7 214.4 Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings 1.3 0.2 Rate change impact 0.3 Benchmark tax expense 91.4 103.5 Non-benchmark: Tax credit on non-benchmark items 0.6 61.1 Non-benchmark tax credit in respect of prior years 7.6 23.5 Total tax charge in income statement 83.2 18.9 Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be in uenced by the prole o f profits earned in the dif ferent tax jurisdictions within the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Exceptional tax note 9 m m Exceptional loss before tax 694.0 Exceptional loss before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 194.3 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 135.5 Net exceptional tax credit in respect of prior years 23.5 Exceptional tax credit 82.3 78 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 12.
DIVIDENDS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders m m Final dividend of 10.0p per share 2009: 10.0p for the prior year 85.7 86.8 Interim dividend of 4.7p per share 2009: 4.7p for the current year 40.6 40.4 Ordinary dividends on equity shares 126.3 127.2 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 27 February 2010 of 10.0p per share, amounting to a total final dividend of 86.6m, has been proposed by the Board of Directors, and is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
This would make a total dividend for the year of 14.7p per share, amounting to 127.2m.
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability at 27 February 2010 in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date.
It will be paid on 21 July 2010 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 21 May 2010.
The Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST has waived its entitlement to dividends in the amount of 2.7m 2009: 1.8m.
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the pro t attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts, net of vested but unexercised options and share awards.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Earnings m m Pro t loss after tax for the financial year 209.8 413.1 Adjusted for: Exceptional items 694.0 Demerger incentive schemes 7.7 8.4 Financing fair value remeasurements 2.7 28.9 Financing impact on retirement bene t obligations 0.7 11.2 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 6.7 1.8 Onerous lease provision releases 12.5 Attributable taxation 0.6 61.1 Non-benchmark tax credit in respect of prior years 7.6 23.5 Benchmark profit after tax f or the financial year 201.5 224.2 Weighted average number of shares millions millions Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 862.9 866.6 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 9.3 10.4 Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 872.2 877.0 EPS pence pence Basic EPS 24.3 47.7 a Diluted EPS 24.1 47.7 Basic benchmark EPS 23.4 25.9 Diluted benchmark EPS 23.1 25.6 a I n accordance with IAS 33, as the Group made a loss after tax for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009, the effect of share incentive awards is anti-dilutive and as such diluted EPS equals basic EPS.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 14.
GOODWILL Argos Homebase Total m m m Cost At 1 March 2009 and 27 February 2010 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Impairment At 1 March 2009 and 27 February 2010 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 27 February 2010 1,152.3 388.7 1,541.0 Argos Homebase Total m m m Cost At 2 March 2008 and 28 February 2009 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Impairment At 2 March 2008 Charge for the year 381.7 381.7 At 28 February 2009 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 28 February 2009 1,152.3 388.7 1,541.0 Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The recoverable amount of each of the business segments is determined as being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on financial plans approved by management looking forward five years.
Cash ows are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate beyond the five-year plan period.
There are a signi cant number of inter-connected assumptions that underpin the value-in-use calculations, however the key assumptions, which management believes are appropriate for both retail businesses, are: a lo ng-term growth rate of 2.5% 2009: 2.5%, which has been used to extrapolate cash ows beyond the five-year plan period: a p ost-tax discount rate of 8.5% 2009: 8.5%, which equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 11.8% 2009: 11.8%, has been estimated taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses and has been applied to the cash ow projections: and opera ting pro ts for the current year, of 266.2m for Argos 2009: 303.6m and 41.2m for Homebase 2009: 14.9m, have been adjusted into the plan period, incorporating assumptions in respect of sales growth, gross margin and operating costs.
As a result of the value-in-use calculations as at 27 February 2010 no impairment charge is required against the carrying value of either the Argos or Homebase goodwill.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would cause the carrying value of the Argos or Homebase business segments to exceed their recoverable amounts.
80 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 15.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 1 March 2009 210.5 20.6 231.1 Additions 15.6 1.9 17.5 Disposals 15.4 15.4 At 27 February 2010 210.7 22.5 233.2 Amortisation At 1 March 2009 127.3 0.2 127.5 Charge for the year 26.2 2.2 28.4 Disposals 15.4 15.4 At 27 February 2010 138.1 2.4 140.5 Net book value at 27 February 2010 72.6 20.1 92.7 Assets in the course of construction included above at 27 February 2010 11.8 11.8 Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 2 March 2008 186.7 186.7 Additions 24.1 20.6 44.7 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 28 February 2009 210.5 20.6 231.1 Amortisation At 2 March 2008 103.0 103.0 Charge for the year 24.5 0.2 24.7 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 28 February 2009 127.3 0.2 127.5 Net book value at 28 February 2009 83.2 20.4 103.6 Assets in the course of construction included above at 28 February 2009 27.8 27.8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 1 March 2009 108.2 1.6 336.8 1,058.4 1,505.0 Exchange differences 0.2 0.2 Additions 0.1 10.1 63.5 73.7 Disposals 8.9 198.4 207.3 Transfers between categories 0.3 0.3 At 27 February 2010 108.5 1.7 337.7 923.7 1,371.6 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 March 2009 18.2 0.3 230.2 697.0 945.7 Exchange differences 0.9 1.1 2.0 Charge for the year 1.6 0.1 14.2 85.8 101.7 Disposals 8.4 194.5 202.9 At 27 February 2010 19.8 0.4 236.9 589.4 846.5 Net book value at 27 February 2010 88.7 1.3 100.8 334.3 525.1 Assets in the course of construction included above at 27 February 2010 3.0 28.7 31.7 Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 2 March 2008 102.3 1.7 382.4 1,158.0 1,644.4 Exchange differences 3.0 7.4 10.4 Additions 7.0 22.0 81.9 110.9 Disposals 1.1 70.7 188.9 260.7 Transfers between categories 0.1 0.1 At 28 February 2009 108.2 1.6 336.8 1,058.4 1,505.0 Depreciation and impairment losses At 2 March 2008 10.4 0.4 200.7 701.1 912.6 Exchange differences 0.6 4.0 4.6 Charge for the year 1.3 18.1 115.3 134.7 Impairment losses 7.6 81.0 63.6 152.2 Disposals 1.1 70.3 187.0 258.4 Transfers between categories 0.1 0.1 At 28 February 2009 18.2 0.3 230.2 697.0 945.7 Net book value at 28 February 2009 90.0 1.3 106.6 361.4 559.3 Assets in the course of construction included above at 28 February 2009 4.8 44.1 48.9 Store assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Store assets are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the same as those detailed for the goodwill impairment model in note 14.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the carrying value of store assets to exceed their recoverable amounts.
82 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 17.
INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 2010 2009 m m At 1 March 2009 8.4 7.7 Exchange differences 1.1 Share of loss after tax 0.7 0.4 Additions 0.5 At 27 February 2010 8.2 8.4 The Groups interest in joint ventures consists of a 50% holding in Home Retail Group Personal Finance Limited, a company incorporated in England, and its interest in associates consists of a 33% shareholding in Ogalas Limited which trades as home store more, a company incorporated in the Republic of Ireland.
The Groups share of the revenue of its joint venture for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 is 2.9m 2009: 2.9m and its share of the loss after tax is 1.8m 2009: 2.0m.
At 27 February 2010, the Groups share of the net liabilities of its joint venture amounted to 14.5m 2009: 9.3m, consisting of assets of 17.8m 2009: 25.7m and liabilities of 32.3m 2009: 35.0m.
No liability has been recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of the joint venture, but the Groups share of the accumulated losses has been taken initially against the carrying value of the investment, then subsequently against the carrying value of a loan made by the Group to the joint venture, which is reported within other financial assets in note 25.
The Groups share of the revenue of its associate for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 is 7.0m 2009: 5.9m and its share of the loss after tax is 0.2m 2009: 0.4m.
At 27 February 2010, the Groups share of the net assets of its associate amounted to 8.2m 2009: 8.4m, consisting of assets of 9.3m 2009: 9.5m, which includes goodwill of 4.9m 2009: 4.9m, and liabilities of 1.1m 2009: 1.1m.
INVENTORIES 2010 2009 m m Goods for resale 935.4 930.3 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 19.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Trade receivables: Instalment receivables 497.2 491.1 0.2 Other trade receivables 55.4 59.3 552.6 550.4 0.2 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 70.8 70.1 0.2 481.8 480.3 Other receivables 57.3 4.0 56.4 3.4 Prepayments and accrued income 43.0 57.0 582.1 4.0 593.7 3.4 The carrying values of current trade and other receivables are a reasonable approximation of their fair values due to their short-term nature.
Long-term receivables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
All receivables due after more than one year are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a broad customer base.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 27 February 2010, trade receivables of 74.0m 2009: 86.0m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 70.8m as at 27 February 2010 2009: 70.3m.
The impaired receivables mainly relate to store card holder balances on customer accounts on which indications of possible default have been identi ed.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: m At 1 March 2008 61.4 Charge for the year 42.1 Utilised 33.2 At 28 February 2009 70.3 Charge for the year 53.2 Utilised 52.7 At 27 February 2010 70.8 As at 27 February 2010, trade receivables of 26.4m 2009: 28.7m were past due but not impaired.
These mainly relate to store card holders and corporate customer receivable balances.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Less than 3 months 23.1 26.5 3 to 6 months 2.7 1.7 6 to 9 months 0.1 0.2 9 to 12 months 0.4 0.3 More than 12 months 0.1 26.4 28.7 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
84 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 20.
CURRENT ASSET INVESTMENTS 2010 2009 m m Term cash deposit 50.0 75.0 The current asset investment comprises a term cash deposit invested for a period of six 2009: nine months which is due to mature after the balance sheet date on 10 May 2010 2009: 15 April 2009.
The interest rate on this deposit is 1.3% 2009: 6.1%.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 364.0 209.4 The effective interest rate during the year ended 27 February 2010 for cash and cash equivalents was 0.9% 2009: 4.8%.
Under the terms of a re-insurance agreement, bank balances totalling 2.9m 2009: 2.9m are the subject of custodial agreements and may not be withdrawn without the consent of the re-insured.
The Group has provided letters of credit totalling 12.5m 2009: 12.5m to AIG Europe UK Limited as part of their re-insurance agreement.
These letters are secured by cash deposits.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Trade payables 511.5 486.0 Social security costs and other taxes 34.9 45.0 Accruals and deferred income 408.3 62.5 380.1 64.0 Other payables 87.7 88.1 1,042.4 62.5 999.2 64.0 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and the fair values are not considered to differ materially from the recognised book values.
Long-term payables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 23.
PROVISIONS Onerous Insurance Restructuring leases provisions provisions Other Total m m m m m At 1 March 2009 173.4 33.1 33.6 10.1 250.2 Charged to the income statement 2.8 2.8 Released to the income statement 12.5 0.8 0.6 13.9 Transfer 2.3 0.8 1.1 2.0 Utilised during the year 8.6 3.2 19.0 0.9 31.7 Discount unwind 9.3 0.2 0.2 9.7 At 27 February 2010 163.9 32.7 14.8 7.7 219.1 2010 2009 Analysed as: m m Current 20.8 51.6 Non-current 198.3 198.6 219.1 250.2 The onerous lease provision covers potential liabilities for onerous lease contracts for stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading revenue is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Where the value-in-use calculation is lower, the provision is based on the present value of expected future cash ows relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected sublet income.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2017.
Provision is made at the year-end for the estimated costs of claims incurred by the Groups captive insurance company but not settled at the balance sheet date, including the costs of claims that have arisen but have not yet been reported to the Group.
The estimated cost of claims includes expenses to be incurred in settling claims.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2014.
A number of organisational changes were undertaken to improve the operational ef ciency of the Group and drive further cost productivity.
The majority of this remaining provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include legal claims and other sundry provisions.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates both fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution schemes.
A fide ned bene t scheme is a pension plan that fide fines an amount of pension bene t that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A fide ned contribution scheme is a pension plan under which both the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these bene ts, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
Pension arrangements for UK employees are operated principally through a fide ned bene t scheme the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme and a fide ned contribution scheme the Home Retail Group Stakeholder Pension Scheme.
In other countries, bene ts are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
fide ned bene t schemes The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme The scheme has rules which specify the bene ts to be paid and are nanced accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2009 by independent, quali ed actuaries, Towers Watson, using the projected unit method and resulted in a fide cit of 102m.
The next full actuarial valuation of the scheme will be carried out as at 31 March 2012.
86 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 IAS 19 valuations The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by Towers Watson to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at 27 February 2010 and 28 February 2009.
The movements during the year in the net obligation asset recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 March 2009 46.4 83.7 Total charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 16.4 8.6 Actuarial gain loss recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 6.6 135.4 Contributions paid 31.3 13.9 At 27 February 2010 24.9 46.4 During the year, the Group has paid contributions totalling 31.3m 2009: 13.9m to the Home Retail Group fide ned bene t pension plans including 17.3m as part of the fide cit recovery plan and increased employer contribution rate agreed with the scheme trustees following the completion of the 31 March 2009 actuarial valuation.
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid by the Group during the next financial year is 28m, including 12m as part of the fide cit recovery plan.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2010 2009 m m Fair value of scheme assets 667.7 504.4 Present value of funded scheme liabilities 679.2 539.8 fide cit in the funded scheme 11.5 35.4 Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 13.4 11.0 Retirement benefit oblig ation recognised in the balance sheet 24.9 46.4 The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current service cost 15.8 20.4 Curtailment 0.1 0.6 Discount unwind on scheme liabilities 35.3 33.9 Expected return on scheme assets 34.6 45.1 Total charge to consolidated income statement 16.4 8.6 The current service cost includes 1.4m 2009: 1.8m in respect of unfunded pension arrangements.
The charge is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement: 2010 2009 m m Administrative costs 15.7 19.8 Finance expense note 10 35.3 33.9 Finance income note 10 34.6 45.1 Total charge to consolidated income statement 16.4 8.6 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 24.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations were as follows: 2010 2009 % % Rate of in ation 3.6 3.4 Rate of increase for salaries 4.6 4.7 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.5 3.3 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.6 3.4 Discount rate 6.0 6.5 The impact of changing material assumptions is as follows: 2010 2009 Indicative Indicative Indicative Indicative effect effect effect effect Increase on scheme on annual on scheme on annual decrease in liabilities service cost liabilities service cost assumptions m m m m Rate of in ation 0.1% - 13.3 - 0.6 - 9.4 - 0.6 Rate of increase for salaries 0.1% - 2.5 - 0.2 - 2.2 - 0.2 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 0.1% - 7.3 - 0.3 - 5.0 - 0.2 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 0.1% - 3.0 - 0.1 - 2.8 - 0.1 Discount rate 0.1% - 14.6 - 0.6 - 11.0 - 0.5 Life expectancy 1 year - 19.9 - 0.7 - 14.9 - 0.7 The discount rate is based on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and term to the fide ned bene t obligation.
The IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with PA92 Series tables with medium cohort projections for mortality improvements up to the current year.
The allowance for mortality improvements beyond the current year is based on medium cohort improvements with a 1% oor.
Previously it had been assumed that the probability of death occurring at each age would decrease by approximately 0.25% each year.
The effect of this change to the mortality assumption has been to add between 1 to 1.5 years to the average expectation of life on retirement.
Based on these assumptions the average expectation of life on retirement in normal health is assumed to be: 23.0 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 65 2009: 22.5 25.4 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65 2009: 25.6 24.4 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50 2009: 23.9 26.8 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50 2009: 27.0 The assets of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme and the expected rates of return are summarised as follows: 2010 2009 Expected Expected Percentage long-term Percentage long-term Fair of scheme rate of Fair of scheme rate of value assets return value assets return m % % pa m % % pa Market value of scheme assets: Equities 307.5 46 8.1 302.3 60 8.4 Fixed interest securities 163.3 24 5.4 190.4 38 5.4 Fund of hedge funds 94.3 14 6.7 Senior secured loans 30.5 5 6.0 Property 38.1 6 7.6 Cash and net current assets 34.0 5 4.4 11.7 2 4.5 667.7 100 6.9 504.4 100 7.2 88 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 The overall expected rate of return on scheme assets is the weighted average of the best estimate of the individual asset categories and their inherent expected rates of return.
Changes in the present value of the fide ned bene t liabilities are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Opening fide ned bene t liabilities 550.8 562.8 Current service cost 15.8 20.4 Curtailment 1.4 0.6 Interest cost 35.3 33.9 Contributions paid by employees 6.1 6.8 Actuarial loss gain on liabilities recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 101.1 58.9 Bene ts paid 15.1 13.6 Closing fide ned bene t liabilities 692.6 550.8 Changes in the market value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Opening market value of scheme assets 504.4 646.5 Settlement curtailment 1.3 Expected return 34.6 45.1 Actuarial gain loss on assets recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 107.7 194.3 Contributions paid by the Group 31.3 13.9 Contributions paid by employees 6.1 6.8 Bene ts paid 15.1 13.6 Closing market value of scheme assets 667.7 504.4 Cumulative actuarial loss included in the statement of comprehensive income 94.8 101.4 The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 142.3m 2009: 149.2m loss.
The Group has in place arrangements which secure unfunded pension bene t arrangements for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued bene ts secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 27 February 2010 was 12.5m 2009: 8.5m.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the directors remuneration report.
History of experience gains and losses: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Present value of fide ned bene t liabilities 692.6 550.8 562.8 628.0 579.1 Fair value of scheme assets 667.7 504.4 646.5 637.3 604.6 Net deficit sur plus on the scheme 24.9 46.4 83.7 9.3 25.5 Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 12.1 1.5 4.3 20.8 0.2 Percentage of scheme liabilities 1.7% 0.3% 0.8% 3.3% 0.0% Experience gain loss on scheme assets 107.7 194.3 44.8 18.0 70.9 Percentage of scheme assets 16.1% 38.5% 6.9% 2.8% 11.7% fide ned contribution schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to the fide ned contribution schemes and amounted to 6.8m 2009: 6.8m.
Contributions totalling 0.7m 2009: 0.3m were payable to the schemes at 27 February 2010 and are included within trade and other payables.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 25.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Other financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 42.3 25.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value hedges 7.2 28.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 13.2 9.2 Total other financial assets 49.5 13.2 53.7 9.2 Other financial liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 1.8 1.5 Total other financial liabilities 1.8 1.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts The forward foreign exchange contracts are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash ows are expected to occur up to one year into the future.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in shareholders equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 27 February 2010 and 28 February 2009 will be released within one year from the balance sheet date.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 27 February 2010 were 869.6m 2009: 671.9m.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
DEFERRED TAX 2010 2009 m m The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows: At 1 March 2009 61.1 20.8 Income statement charge credit note 11 30.5 49.4 Exchange differences 0.6 Tax on pensions and share schemes charged credited to equity 7.4 32.5 At 27 February 2010 23.8 61.1 The deferred tax amounts recognised are as follows: Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year 61.6 87.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be settled after more than one year 37.8 26.3 Net deferred tax asset 23.8 61.1 90 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated Asset tax provisions depreciation Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 2 March 2008 34.1 12.5 46.6 Income statement credit charge 28.5 12.0 16.5 Tax credited to equity 1.1 37.9 39.0 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 0.1 0.7 15.5 14.7 At 28 February 2009 63.8 0.7 22.9 87.4 At 1 March 2009 63.8 0.7 22.9 87.4 Income statement charge 12.5 8.4 10.4 31.3 Tax charged to equity 1.0 1.8 2.8 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 7.7 7.7 Exchange differences 0.6 0.6 At 27 February 2010 50.9 10.7 61.6 Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 2 March 2008 21.8 30.1 15.5 67.4 Income statement credit 2.1 30.8 32.9 Tax charged to equity 6.5 6.5 Transfer to deferred tax assets 0.7 15.4 14.7 At 28 February 2009 19.7 6.6 26.3 At 1 March 2009 19.7 6.6 26.3 Income statement credit 0.8 0.8 Tax charged to equity 4.6 4.6 Transfer from deferred tax assets 7.7 7.7 At 27 February 2010 18.9 7.7 11.2 37.8 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax bene t through the future taxable pro ts is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 1.1m 2009: 1.1m in respect of all non-trading losses, which total 3.9m 2009: 3.9m, that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
In addition, the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 32.2m 2009: 32.2m in respect of capital losses, which total 114.9m 2009: 114.9m, that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available inde nitely.
SHARE CAPITAL 2010 2009 Number 2010 Number 2009 of shares m of shares m Ordinary share capital of 10p each Authorised 2,000,500,000 200.1 2,000,500,000 200.1 Allotted, called-up and fully paid 877,445,001 87.7 877,445,001 87.7 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 28.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the demerger of the Group from GUS plc during 2006.
Other reserves Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 1 March 2009 27.1 17.4 45.1 35.4 Other comprehensive income 11.9 3.6 8.3 Net movement in own shares 2.9 2.9 Balance at 27 February 2010 24.2 29.3 41.5 46.6 Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 2 March 2008 6.0 0.9 9.0 3.9 Other comprehensive income 16.5 36.1 52.6 Net movement in own shares 21.1 21.1 Balance at 28 February 2009 27.1 17.4 45.1 35.4 Net movement in own shares of 2.9m 2009: 21.1m represents the purchase, and subsequent utilisation or sale, of shares for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from the Groups share-based compensation schemes.
Shares in Home Retail Group plc are held in the following trusts which have been established since demerger: Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST The EST provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under share option and share grant schemes with the exception of the Share Incentive Plan.
At 27 February 2010, the EST held 13,899,537 shares with a market value of 35.4m.
The shares in the EST are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 20.0m.
During the year 3,112,268 shares were acquired for a cost of 9.4m.
Dividends on these shares are waived.
Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust The Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under the Share Incentive Plan.
At 27 February 2010, the Trust held 1,007,291 shares with a market value of 2.6m.
These shares are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 4.2m.
No additional shares were purchased during the year.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes.
These can be analysed into three categories, being those rolled over from old GUS plc schemes as a result of the demerger from GUS on 11 October 2006, incentive schemes speci cally related to the demerger Demerger incentive schemes and new Home Retail Group plc schemes subsequent to the demerger.
Prior to the demerger, a number of Home Retail Group plc employees participated in old GUS plc share-based payment schemes.
As part of the demerger, some of these schemes had early vesting with vesting occurring prior to completion of the demerger, while others were modi ed by rolling them over to become Home Retail Group plc share-based payment schemes.
Speci cally, all executive share option schemes in operation following the demerger from GUS plc were rolled over from a GUS plc share option arrangement to a Home Retail Group plc arrangement.
Furthermore, certain share grant schemes namely the co-investment plan and the performance share plan which originally operated as GUS plc share grant schemes, were rolled over as Home Retail Group plc share grant schemes.
Under IFRS 2, these changes were treated as modi cations to the schemes and hence revalued as at the demerger date.
Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of ordinary shares in the Company 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 m m Share option awards 5.0 7.4 Share grant awards 15.4 13.9 Total expense recognised all equity-settled 20.4 21.3 92 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 The total share-based payments charge of 20.4m 2009: 21.3m includes 6.3m 2009: 8.6m relating to demerger incentive schemes which, together with national insurance costs of 1.4m 2009: 0.2m credit, total 7.7m 2009: 8.4m, and are excluded from benchmark pro t before tax.
Summary of share option and share award arrangements During the year ended 27 February 2010, Home Retail Group plc had a number of share option and share award arrangements for its employees, all of which are equity-settled.
Details of these arrangements are as follows: Rolled over from old GUS plc schemes Share options The 1998 approved and non-approved executive share option schemes.
Under these schemes, the exercise price of granted options was equal to the market price of the shares over the three dealing days preceding grant.
The options became exercisable three years from the grant date, subject to the Groups EPS compound annual growth exceeding compound annual retail price in ation by 4% per annum over a continuous three-year period and the employee completing three years service.
The EPS growth target is not a market-based performance condition as fide ned by IFRS 2.
The options have a maximum term of 10 years from grant.
No new options have been granted under these schemes since demerger.
Share awards The ex-GUS plc performance share plan.
Awards made under this plan normally vested three years after the date of grant for nil consideration, with the percentage of the award distributed to participants determined by ranking total shareholder return relative to a comparator group, which is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
Awards under this plan were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
All awards under this plan have now vested and have been distributed to participants.
The ex-GUS plc co-investment plan permitted the awards of matching shares to participants, conditional on the achievement of speci ed performance targets related to the benchmark operating pro t of the Group.
The matching shares are a nil consideration option and have been classi ed as an award of shares because the nature of the award is the same.
The grant date was the start of the financial year in which performance was assessed, which was one year before the quantity of shares awarded was determined.
Awards made under this plan normally vest after a four-year period for nil consideration, and participants have a further two years to exercise their awards.
The underlying value of the award was known at grant date, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
Demerger incentive schemes Share awards The performance share plan.
Awards made under this plan normally vested three years after the date of grant, at which time shares were distributed to participants for nil consideration.
All awards under this plan have now vested.
The re-investment plan is a three-part scheme running over three, four and five years, under which participants were awarded matching shares.
The matching shares are a nil consideration option and have been classied as an award of shares because the nature of the award is the same.
The percentage of the award distributed to participants is conditional upon continued service, ranking of total shareholder return relative to a comparator group and the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on invested capital of the Group.
The total shareholder return performance condition is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
Awards under this plan have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
Awards under the first part of this scheme, running over three years, have now vested and have been exercised.
Under the long-term incentive plan a one-off grant of matching shares was made to participants at demerger, based upon the operating profit performance of the Group over the three years prior to demerger.
The matching shares were a nil consideration option and were classied as an award of shares because the nature of the award was the same.
The quantity of shares was determined at demerger, following assessment of performance, and awarded in June 2007.
The awards made under this plan normally vested two years later, and participants have a further two years to exercise their awards.
The share incentive plan was a one-off free share grant to all employees at the time of the demerger.
The shares were acquired by a trust on behalf of participants and will normally be forfeited if a participants employment with the Group ceases within three years of the grant date.
All awards under this plan have now vested after this initial three-year period and participants can now exercise their awards, however awards can be exercised free of tax after a further two years.
The shares continue to be held by the trust until the awards are either exercised by participants or lapse.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED New Home Retail Group plc schemes Share options The Home Retail Group plc Sharesave Plan permits the grant to employees of options over the Companys shares linked to a building society save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of between 5 and 250 per month.
Options are normally capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at an exercise price calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding invitation to participants.
Options must be exercised within six months of the end of the three or five-year save-as-you-earn contract.
Share awards The performance share plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of grant for nil consideration, with the percentage of the award distributed to participants determined by ranking total shareholder return relative to a comparator group, which is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
The co-investment plan permitted the awards of matching shares to participants.
Vesting is normally conditional on the achievement of speci ed performance targets in two stages.
The grant date was the start of the financial year in which the first performance stage the achievement of speci ed performance targets related to the benchmark operating pro t of the Group was assessed, which was one year before the quantity of shares awarded is determined.
No new awards were granted under this plan during the year.
The deferred bonus plan permits the award of a deferred bonus that will be converted into a conditional award of shares and will operate for the year ended 27 February 2010 only.
The award is based on performance against a benchmark PBT and a Group net cash target and will be made at the maximum: 150% of salary.
The award will be made in May 2010.
The grant date is the start of the financial year in which the performance stage is assessed, which is one year before the shares are awarded.
Subject to continued employment and satisfactory Group performance for the year in which performance is measured, the shares will vest and be released on a phased basis, for nil consideration.
1 6 will vest on the first anniversary of the award, 2 6 on the second and 3 6 on the third anniversary.
The deferred share plan is a discretionary one-off award of deferred shares.
This award has no performance conditions, other than a level of personal performance.
Awards made under this plan will vest on a phased basis for nil consideration: being 1 6 one year after the award is made, 2 6 two years after the award is made and 3 6 three years after the award is made.
Information relating to share option valuation techniques The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year over the Companys shares under the Home Retail Group plc Sharesave Plan, determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, was 0.44 2009: 0.55 per option.
The significant inputs into the option pricing model were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Weighted average: Share price on grant date 2.65 2.38 Exercise price 2.00 1.90 Expected volatility 46.3% 42.4% Expected dividend yield 5.5% 6.2% Risk free interest rate 3.1% 4.4% Expected option life to exercise 3.6 years 3.7 years Expected volatility is a measure of expected uctuations in the share price over the expected life of an option.
For each financial year the measure of volatility used by the Company in its pricing model has been calculated by using implied volatility from market quoted prices of traded options over the Companys shares.
94 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 28 February 2009 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options options Outstanding at beginning of year 23,247,239 2.71 17,160,056 3.76 Granted 3,817,037 2.00 14,266,007 1.90 Forfeited 6,629,823 3.11 7,828,759 3.48 Exercised 112,285 1.91 758 1.90 Expired 658,757 3.70 349,307 3.73 Outstanding at year-end 19,663,411 2.41 23,247,239 2.71 Exercisable at year-end 3,842,182 3.57 4,733,476 3.57 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the year was 2.93 2009: 2.14.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year Share options at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: As at 27 February 2010 Weighted Weighted average remaining lives average Range of exercise prices Number of exercise price Expected Contractual options years years 1.00 1.99 10,608,251 1.90 2.3 2.8 2.00 2.99 3,582,773 2.01 3.1 3.6 3.00 3.99 5,472,387 3.66 0.4 4.1 As at 28 February 2009 Weighted Weighted average remaining lives average Range of exercise prices Number of exercise price Expected Contractual options years years 1.00 1.99 12,984,269 1.90 3.3 3.8 2.00 2.99 34,097 2.79 3.9 3.00 3.99 10,228,873 3.74 1.1 5.8 Information relating to share award valuation techniques The value of the awards is determined as the observed market closing share price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the co-investment plan, this occurs after the first year of performance is assessed.
The performance share plans and the re-investment plans marketbased performance condition is included in the fair value measurement on grant date and is not revised for actual performance.
All of the share awards are equity-settled.
Under the share awards, the participants have an entitlement to either dividend equivalents or dividend distributions from issue date until point of vesting.
The observed market share price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions.
There were 5,646,908 ordinary share awards 2009: 7,609,354 granted during the year with a weighted average fair value of 1.13 2009: 1.84.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 30.
OPERATING LEASES 2010 2009 m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Less than one year 380.1 393.0 Between one and five years 1,382.3 1,394.3 More than five years 2,315.8 2,537.0 Total operating leases 4,078.2 4,324.3 The Group leases various retail stores, of ces and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses, contingent rentals and renewal rights.
COMMITMENTS 2010 2009 m m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 7.5 17.6 Intangible assets 0.9 4.0 Total commitments 8.4 21.6 32.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 27 February 28 February 2010 2009 Cash generated from operations m m Pro t loss before tax 293.0 394.2 Adjustments for: Share of post-tax losses of joint ventures and associates 2.0 2.4 Net nancing income 0.5 10.2 Operating pro t loss 294.5 402.0 Loss pro t on sale of property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.2 Depreciation and amortisation 130.1 159.4 Impairment losses 533.9 Finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.5 13.6 Increase decrease in inventories 5.1 74.5 Decrease in receivables 11.5 12.6 Increase decrease in payables 63.2 97.3 Movement in working capital 69.6 10.2 Decrease increase in provisions 40.8 146.9 Movement in retirement bene ts 15.6 5.9 Share-based payment expense net of dividend equivalent payments 17.2 21.1 Cash generated from operations 461.0 468.4 96 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 34.
RELATED PARTIES The ultimate parent company of the Group is Home Retail Group plc.
The principal subsidiary and associate undertakings at 27 February 2010 are shown in note 36.
Transactions between Home Retail Group plc and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below: Joint Venture The Group lent 5.1m 2009: 2.0m to and invested 0.5m 2009: nil in a joint venture, Home Retail Group Personal Finance Limited.
The total loan of 15.2m 2009: 10.1m was outstanding as at 27 February 2010.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
During the year, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 28 April 2010, the Group announced a share buy-back programme.
The Board anticipates that over the financial year to February 2011, up to 150m of capital may be returned to shareholders in this manner, with this being funded out of the Groups existing cash resources.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY, JOINT VENTURE AND ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS Country of Percentage of Description incorporation ordinary shares held Home Retail Group UK Limited Group holding company England 100 Argos Limited General merchandise retailing England 100 Argos Distributors Ireland Limited General merchandise retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Homebase Limited Home enhancement retailing England 100 Homebase House and Garden Centre Limited Home enhancement retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Hampden Group Limited Home enhancement retailing Northern Ireland 100 Home Retail Group Card Services Limited Financial services England 100 ARG Personal Loans Limited Financial services England 100 Argos Business Solutions Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Hong Kong Limited Product sourcing for the Hong Kong 100 Home Retail Group companies Held directly by the Parent Company Details of interests in joint ventures and associated undertakings are given within note 17.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 97
