Homeserve 68 Financial statements annual report & accounts 2010 Directors responsibilities the Directors are responsible for preparing the the Directors are responsible for keeping proper annual report and accounts, remuneration accounting records that disclose with reasonable report and the financial statements in accordance accuracy at any time the financial position of the with applicable law and regulations.
company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the companies company law requires the Directors to prepare act 2006. they are also responsible for financial statements for each financial year.
the safeguarding the assets of the company and Directors are required by the ias regulation to hence for taking reasonable steps for the prepare the Group financial statements under prevention and detection of fraud and other international Financial reporting standards irregularities.
iFrss as adopted by the european Union and have also elected to prepare the parent company the Directors are responsible for the maintenance financial statements in accordance with iFrss and integrity of the corporate and financial as adopted by the european Union.
the financial information included on the companys website.
statements are also required by law to be legislation in the United Kingdom governing the properly prepared in accordance with the preparation and dissemination of financial companies act 2006 and article 4 of the ias statements may differ from legislation in other regulation.
international accounting standard 1 requires Directors responsibility statement that financial statements present fairly for We confirm to the best of our knowledge: each financial year the companys financial the Group financial statements, prepared in position, financial performance and cash accordance with iFrss as adopted by the eU, flows.
this requires the faithful representation give a true and fair view of the assets, of the effects of transactions, other events liabilities, financial position and profit or loss and conditions in accordance with the of the company and the undertakings definitions and recognition criteria for assets, included in the consolidation taken as a liabilities, income and expenses set out in whole: and the international accounting standards the management report which comprises boards Framework for the preparation and the Directors report and the business review presentation of financial statements.
in includes a fair review of the development virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation and performance of the business and the will be achieved by compliance with all position of the company and the applicable iFrss.
However, Directors are also undertakings included in the consolidation required to: taken as a whole, together with a description properly select and apply accounting of the principal risks and uncertainties that policies: they face.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable by order of the board information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in richard Harpin iFrss are insufficient to enable users to chief executive officer understand the impact of particular 25 may 2010 transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
martin bennett chief Financial officer 25 may 2010
