Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the of Howden Joinery Group Plc for the 52 weeks ended Companies Act 2006 25 December 2010 which comprise the Parent Company In our opinion: Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 9.
The financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be reporting framework that has been applied in their audited has been properly prepared in accordance with preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom the Companies Act 2006: and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, are prepared is consistent with the parent company as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Matters on which we are required to report members those matters we are required to state to them by exception in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We have nothing to report in respect of the following fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company report to you if, in our opinion: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor have not been received from branches not visited by As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities us: or Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements the parent company financial statements and the part and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on are not in agreement with the accounting records and the parent company financial statements in accordance returns: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other matter and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to We have reported separately on the Group financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements statements of Howden Joinery Group Plc for the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 52 weeks ended 25 December 2010. fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent John Adam Senior statutory auditor companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
London, United Kingdom 2 March 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 25 December 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
