Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 back AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 1:04 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 46 Principal Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: The financial statements have been prepared in Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and those Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred tax: Recovery of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Underlying Assets adopted by the European Union and IFRIC IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Interpretations.
The financial statements have been Equity Instruments Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of Not yet endorsed by the European Union available for sale financial assets and those financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading.
It is not anticipated that any of the new requirements will significantly impact the Groups results or financial The principal accounting policies applied in the position.
preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to Consolidation all the years presented.
On adoption of IFRS, the Company elected not to restate business combinations prior to 1 January 2004.
The Adoption of New Standards, Amendments Group accounts include the results of the Company and and Interpretations its subsidiaries, together with its share of associates.
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations became effective for and were adopted Subsidiaries during the year ended 31 December 2010: Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations power to govern the financial and operating policies so as IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial to obtain benefits from their activities.
Statements Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items which control is transferred to the Group.
They are Amendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled  from the date control ceases.
based Payment Transactions Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for a business acquisition represents the fair IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations is effective for the values of any assets transferred, liabilities incurred and or Group for all business combinations which complete after equity interests issued by the Group.
The revised standard introduces also includes the fair value of any asset or liability significant changes to the accounting for business resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
All consideration, including contingent The subsequent movement in fair value of any contingent consideration, is recorded at fair value at the acquisition asset or liability is measured through the income date, with contingent consideration liabilities statement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed to the subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
Identifiable assets acquired All acquisition costs are expensed to the income and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a statement in the period in which they are incurred.
IFRS business combination are measured initially at their fair 3 revised also offers a choice, on an acquisition-byvalues at the acquisition date.
IFRS 3 revised offers a acquisition basis, to measure any non-controlling interest choice, on an  basis, to measure in the acquiree either at fair value or at the nonany non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate identifiable net assets.
The comparative figures for 2009 share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
have not been restated on adoption of this standard, as it does not impact the Groups 2009 financial performance All intra-group transactions, balances, income and or position.
expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Uniform accounting policies have been adopted across the Group.
Although the adoption of the other standards, amendments and interpretations represent a change in Non-controlling Interests accounting policy, comparative figures for 2009 have not Non-controlling interests are those interests in the net been restated for these, as the changes do not impact the assets and results of consolidated subsidiaries, which are financial performance or position of the Group.
not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Group, and are identified separately in shareholders equity.
Standards, Amendments and Interpretations Effective Subsequent to the Year End Associates IFRS 9 Financial Instruments An associate is an entity over which the Group has IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: an interest in a joint venture.
Generally, the Group Presentation Classification of Rights Issues regards an investment in the voting rights of between Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum 20% and 50% as an associate.
The Groups share of after Funding Requirement company B U S I N E S S F i n A n C i A L oVERVIEW R E V I E W GOVERNANCE s t A t e m e n t s Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 back AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 1:04 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 47 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 tax results of associates is included separately in the Interest income statement and the Groups share of the net assets Interest income and expense is recognised in the income is included separately in the balance sheet.
statement using the effective interest method, except for finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, Discontinued Operations construction or production of qualifying assets, which are A discontinued operation is a component of the Group capitalised as part of the cost of those assets until such that has either been disposed of during the year or that is time as they are substantially ready for their intended use classified as held-for-sale, which represents a separate or sale.
major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a Foreign Currencies separate major line of business or geographical area of The financial statements for each of the Groups operations.
Discontinued operations are presented on subsidiaries and associates are prepared using their the income statement as a separate line and are shown functional currency.
The functional currency is the net of tax.
currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
Revenue Revenue is measured as the fair value of the The presentation currency of the Group and functional consideration received or receivable for the provision of currency of Hunting PLC is sterling.
goods or services in the ordinary course of business, taking into account trade discounts and volume rebates, Transactions in currencies other than the functional and is stated net of sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised currency of the Company are translated at the exchange when it is probable that the economic benefits associated rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
with a transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at Revenue from services is recognised as the services are the balance sheet date and any exchange differences rendered.
Revenue from product sales is recognised arising are taken to the income statement.
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, which is normally on For consolidation purposes, the net assets of overseas delivery of the products.
subsidiaries and associates are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The Long-term contracts are contracts which cover more than income statements of overseas subsidiaries and associates one accounting period and which do not fall within the are translated into sterling at the average rates of definition of construction contracts.
Exchange differences are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency Revenue on long-term contracts for the supply of services translation reserve, together with exchange differences is recognised according to the stage of completion arising on foreign currency loans used to finance overseas reached in the contract by reference to the work done net investments.
The foreign currency translation reserve during the period.
An estimate of the profit attributable to commenced on 1 January 2004 and all cumulative work completed is only recognised once the outcome of translation differences for foreign operations that existed the contract can be reliably measured.
Expected losses on 1 January 2004 were deemed to be zero.
are recognised in full as soon as losses are probable.
The net amount of costs incurred to date plus recognised On the disposal of a business, the cumulative exchange profits less the sum of recognised losses and progress differences previously recognised in the foreign currency billings is disclosed as trade receivables payables.
translation reserve relating to that business are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss Revenue on long-term contracts for the supply of goods is ondisposal.
recognised on completion of the contract when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred Segmental Reporting to the customer.
However, if control and the significant Financial information on operating segments that risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in corresponds with information regularly reviewed by its current state are transferred to the customer as Dennis Proctor, the Chief Operating Decision Maker, is construction progresses, then revenue is recognised by disclosed in the accounts.
Information on operating reference to the stage of completion.
segments, which are components of the Group that are engaged in providing related products, is presented.
Exceptional Items Geographical information presented is based on the Exceptional items are regarded as significant items of location of where the sale originated and where the income and expense, which are separately disclosed by non-current assets arelocated.
virtue of their size, incidence or nature to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Research and Development Exceptional items are principally profits or losses on the Research costs and development costs ineligible for closure or disposal of subsidiaries, provision for warranties capitalisation are written off to the income statement on disposal of subsidiaries, the impairment of assets, asincurred.
provisions for onerous leases and acquisition costs.
Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 back AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 1:04 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48 Principal Accounting Policies continued Taxation Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of The taxation charge in the income statement comprises assets, other than land or assets under construction, using current tax and deferred tax arising on the current years the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives, net profits and adjustments to tax arising on prior at the following rates: years profits.
Freehold buildings 2% to 10% Leasehold buildings life of lease Current tax is the expected net tax payable arising in the Oil and gas exploration and development equipment current year on the current years net profits, using tax unit of production 1 rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 6% to 33 3% sheet date, plus adjustments to net tax payable in respect The assets residual values and useful lives are of prior years net profits.
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Deferred tax is the expected net tax payable on the current years net profits arising in a future year, using tax Freehold land and expenditure on the exploration for and rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance evaluation of mineral resources are not depreciated.
sheet date that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, issettled.
less any impairment in value.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all taxable intended use.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised separately on the balance sheet.
Deferred Computer software integral to an item of machinery is tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are capitalised as part of the hardware.
expected to be recoverable and are reported as noncurrent assets in line with IAS1.
Consequently, deferred Property, plant and equipment are impaired if their tax assets that are expected to be recovered within recoverable amount falls below their carrying value.
twelvemonths are recognised within non-current assets.
Impairment losses are charged to the income The same accounting treatment applies for deferred statement immediately.
Oil and gas development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in If items of income and expense are recognised in other value.
Where commercial production in an area of comprehensive income, then the current and deferred tax interest has commenced, the capitalised costs are relating to those items is also recognised in other depreciated using the unit of production method over the comprehensive income.
total proved reserves of the field concerned.
Costs are depreciated only when commercial reserves associated Deferred taxation on unremitted overseas earnings is with a development project can be determined with provided for to the extent a tax charge is foreseeable.
reasonable accuracy and commercial production hascommenced.
Exploration Expenditure Oil and gas exploration and appraisal costs are initially Goodwill capitalised to wells or fields as appropriate, pending On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed determination of the existence of commercial reserves.
to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair Expenditures incurred during the exploration and value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of appraisal phases are written off unless probable the Groups share of the net assets acquired.
commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Drilling Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is carried at cost expenditure and directly attributable operational less accumulated impairment losses.
Negative goodwill is overheads associated with an exploratory dry hole are immediately written off to the income statement.
expensed immediately upon final determination that commercially viable quantities of hydrocarbons are Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the not found.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating When an oil or gas field has been approved for units that are expected to benefit from the business development, the accumulated exploration and appraisal combination in which the goodwill arose.
costs are included in oil and gas development properties.
On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation business remaining on the balance sheet at the date of Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less disposal is included in the determination of the profit or accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 has not the acquisition and installation of the items and finance been reinstated and will not be included in determining costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
or production of qualifying assets.
company B U S I N E S S F i n A n C i A L oVERVIEW R E V I E W GOVERNANCE s t A t e m e n t s Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 back AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 1:04 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 49 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 Other Intangible Assets Financial Assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less The Group classifies its financial assets into the following accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, where categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or applicable.
These assets have a finite life and are loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale amortised in accordance with the pattern of expected financial assets.
Management determines the future economic benefits, or when this cannot be reliably classification of its investments at initial recognition and estimated, by using the straight-line method.
re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value at the Intangible assets are amortised over the following period: trade date, which is normally the consideration paid, General computer software three to eight years plus, in the case of financial assets that are not measured Customer relationships four to ten years at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Patents seven years Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a Other intangibles one to eight years financial asset is impaired by comparing its carrying value with the present value of the estimated future cash flows Impairments discounted at a rate relevant to the nature of the financial The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of asset.
Management will however use an alternative goodwill at least annually.
The Group also assesses at method where this would result in a more accurate fair least annually whether there have been any events or value.
If the carrying amount is higher, it is reduced to the appropriate value and the loss is recognised immediately changes in circumstances that indicate that property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets may be Financial assets cease to be recognised when the right to receive cash flows has expired or has been transferred impaired and an impairment review is carried out whenever such an assessment indicates that the carrying and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards ofownership.
amount may not be recoverable.
For the purposes of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest a Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss levels for which there are separately identifiable cashflows.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which Where impairment exists, the asset is written down to its they arise.
A financial asset is included in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Impairments are short-term and also includes derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship.
Assets in this category recognised immediately in the income statement.
are classified as current assets if they are expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed non-current assets.
if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss b Loans and Receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
Loans and receivables are carried at would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the previously recognised.
normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net non-current assets.
Interest accrued on loans carried at amortised cost is regarded as an integral part of the loan realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-firstout method and net realisable value is the estimated balance and therefore included within the carrying amount of those loans.
Consequently, interest receivable selling price less costs of disposal in the ordinary course of business.
within twelve months on loans due after more than one year is recognised within non-current assets.
Cash and Cash Equivalents c Available for Sale Financial Assets Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity.
a maturity of less than three months from the date of deposit that are readily convertible to a known amount On disposal or impairment, the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity are recognised in of cash.
Accrued interest is disclosed as part of the year-end balance.
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative assets that are either designated in this For cash flow statement purposes, cash and cash category or not classified in any other categories.
equivalents include bank overdrafts and short-term deposits with a maturity of less than three months from Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities, including trade payables, are initially the date of deposit.
In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
recognised at fair value at the trade date which is normally the consideration received less, in the case of financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 back AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 1:04 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 50 Principal Accounting Policies continued through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group Derivatives that are embedded within a host contract are subsequently re-measures all of its non-derivative separated from that contract and measured at fair value financial liabilities, including trade payables, at unless either 1 the host contract is measured at fair amortisedcost.
value, in which case the fair value of the derivative is subsumed within the fair value of the entire contract, Payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is or 2 the derivative is closely related to the host contract, due within one year or in the normal operating cycle of in which case the derivative is measured at cost.
If not, they are presented as An embedded derivative is regarded as not closely non-current liabilities.
related to its host contract when the cash flows it modifies are associated with risks that are not inherent Interest accrued on loans that are measured at amortised in the contract itself.
cost using the effective interest method is regarded as an integral part of the loan balance and therefore Subsequent reassessment of whether an embedded included within the carrying amount of those loans.
derivative is required to be separated from the host Consequently, interest payable within twelve months contract is prohibited unless there is a change in the on loans due after more than one year is recognised contracts terms.
Leases Debt Issue Costs A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all When it is probable that some or all of the loan facility the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the will be drawn down, transaction costs are capitalised and lessee.
Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded amortised through interest expense using the effective in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at interest method.
When it is not probable that some or all the lower of their fair value and the present value of the of the loan facility will be drawn down, the facility fee is minimum lease payments and depreciated over the capitalised as a prepayment for services and amortised shorter of their estimated useful lives and their lease over the period of the facility to which it relates.
The corresponding rental obligations are included in borrowings as finance lease liabilities, initially at a Derivatives and Financial Instruments value equal to the fair value of the leased asset, or if Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value as net lower, at a value equal to the present value of the proceeds received or consideration paid at the trade date minimum lease payments.
Interest incurred on finance and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at leases is charged to the income statement on an each balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that have not been All other leases are operating leases and the rental of designated in a hedge relationship are recognised these is charged to the income statement as incurred over immediately in the income statement.
the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
Operating lease income is recognised in the income statement Derivative and primary financial instruments that are within other income as it is earned.
designated in a hedge relationship are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Hedges of highly probable forecast Provisions transactions are cash flow hedges.
The effective portion Provisions are liabilities where the amount or timing of of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated in a future expenditure is uncertain.
Provisions are recognised cash flow hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion are past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will recognised in the income statement.
Amounts be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate accumulated in equity are taken to the income statement can be made of the obligation.
If the time value of at the same time the hedged item is recognised in the money is material, provisions are discounted to their income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no present value.
longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains and losses that were reported in equity are immediately transferred If an obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated to the income statement.
it is classified as a contingent liability.
All of the Groups hedges to which hedge accounting is Employee Benefits applied, are tested for effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and are fully documented as hedges at the Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
point of inception of the hedge relationship.
Embedded Derivatives For defined benefit retirement schemes, the expected An embedded derivative is a feature in a sales or cost of providing benefits is determined using the purchase contract that causes the cash flows of the Projected Unit Method, with valuations updated annually contract to change whenever there is a change in a by qualified independent actuaries at each balance sheet specified variable.
The Group reviews its sales and date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in purchase contracts when they first become a party to the the period in which they occur, in the statement of contract in order to determine the existence of embedded comprehensive income.
The asset or liability recognised derivatives within them.
in the balance sheet represents the present value of the company B U S I N E S S F i n A n C i A L oVERVIEW R E V I E W GOVERNANCE s t A t e m e n t s Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 back AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 1:04 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 51 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 defined benefit obligation, as offset by the fair value of Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new plan assets.
Interest arising on the present value of the shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on the proceeds, net of tax.
plans assets is recognised, as a net figure, within interest in the income statement.
Treasury Shares Treasury shares are stated at cost and presented as a Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent deduction from equity attributable to owners of the that the benefits are already vested and is otherwise parent.
Consideration received for the sale of these shares amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period is also recognised directly in equity, with any difference until the benefits become vested.
between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken directly to retained earnings.
All cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 have been recognised in reserves.
Dividend Distributions Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders The expected cost of post-employment benefit are recognised as liabilities in the Groups financial obligations is spread evenly over the period of service of statements in the period in which the dividends are the employees.
approved by the Companys shareholders and are dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Interim Share-based Payments dividends are recognised when paid.
The Group issues cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees as consideration for services received Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements from the employees.
A liability equal to the portion of the The preparation of financial statements requires services received is recognised at its current fair value, management to make judgements and assumptions about determined at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of the future, resulting in the use of accounting estimates.
the liability is re-measured at each subsequent reporting These will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual date and at the date of settlement, with any changes in results and adjustments will consequently be necessary.
fair value recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is Estimates are continually evaluated, based on experience, measured as the present value of the future cash flows.
consultation with experts and reasonable expectations of future events.
The Group also issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees as consideration for Accounting estimates are applied in determining the services received from the employees.
The fair value of carrying amounts of the following significant assets and the employees services is recognised as an expense in liabilities: employee benefits as detailed in note 32, the income statement on a straight-line basis over the goodwill note 16, share-based payments as detailed in vesting period based on the Groups estimate of awards note 39, provisions fair value of obligation and discount that will ultimately vest.
rate as detailed in note 31 and deferred taxation timing of liabilities and timing and recoverability of assets as The fair value of employees services is determined by an detailed in note 22.
Deferred tax balances are derived external valuer, using the Monte Carlo valuation model, from assumptions, which include the future utilisation of with reference to the grant date fair value of the options trading losses and provisions at assumed taxrates.
The fair value includes market performance conditions in respect of the performance based awards In respect of the sale of Gibson Energy, accounting and excludes the impact of any service and non-market estimates and judgements have been applied in performance vesting conditions.
determining i the fair value of the outstanding equity warrant note 19, which is based on published financial The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is data and managements best estimate of the recoverable amount, given the legal terms of the equity warrant and reviewed at each balance sheet date and at the vesting date, where the estimate is adjusted to reflect current prevailing economic conditions, and ii provisions for tax indemnities, where the timing and amount of any expectations.
The adjustment is included as part of the underlying expense recognised in the income statement.
provisions that may be payable remains uncertain.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments has been applied from 1January 2004 to grants of equity instruments issued after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1January 2005.
Share Capital The Companys share capital comprises a single class of Ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
