BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies IMI plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and applicable law IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 119 to 125.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2011.
The following relevant standards and interpretations were adopted by the Group during 2010: Amendment to IFRS2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Arrangements The amendment clarifies the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions, where a subsidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but the parent or another entity in the group pays for those goods or services.
This amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS3 Revised Business Combinations The revised standard broadens the definition of a business, which may result in more acquisitions being treated as business combinations.
IFRS3 revised introduces significant changes in the accounting for business combinations such as valuation of non-controlling interests, business combinations achieved in stages, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of contingent consideration and the accounting for transaction costs.
These changes will have a significant impact on profit or loss reported in the period of an acquisition, the amount of goodwill recognised in a business combination and profit or loss reported in future periods.
Revised IFRS3 is applied prospectively and therefore there is no impact on prior periods.
The acquisition of Zimmermann & Jansen during 2010 has been accounted for under the revised standard.
IAS27 Amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The amended standard requires that a change in the ownership interest by the Group in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, is accounted for as an equity transaction and these transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill or gains and losses.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary any retained interest is remeasured to fair value with gains or losses recognised in profit or loss.
During 2010 the cash flow from acquisition of non-controlling interests has been reclassified from investing to financing activities in line with the requirements of the amended standard.
Amendment to IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible hedged items The amendment clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item.
This also covers the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
The Group has concluded that the amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group has not entered into any such hedges.
The following relevant standards and interpretations were issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2010: IAS24 Revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures The definition of a related party has been clarified to simplify the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation to significant influence and joint control.
The revised standard, which becomes mandatory on 1 January 2011, is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups related party disclosures.
IFRIC14 Amended Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC14 provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits treatment of the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The amendment becomes mandatory on 1 January 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRS9 Financial Instruments - Classification and Measurement effective 1 January 2013 IFRS9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS39 and applies to the classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS39.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition.
The completion of this project is expected in early 2011.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
Improvements to IFRSs The annual improvements project to IFRSs provides a vehicle for making non-urgent but necessary amendments to IFRSs.
The 2010 annual improvements project made amendments to a number of standards: these amendments were issued but not effective for the year ended 31 December 2010.
These amendments are not expected to have a material impact on the Group financial statements.
The cash flow statement has been restated in line with the requirements of IAS27 as described above.
Restatement Net financial expense has been restated to show net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes separately on the face of the income statement.
The directors believe that this presentation provides a more meaningful analysis of net financial expense.
In accordance with the amendment to IAS27 the aggregate cash flows to acquire a non-controlling interest are now classified as financing activities within the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Previously these had been classified as investing activities.
This revision has been applied retrospectively.
The consolidated balance sheet has been restated to show other receivables and other financial assets due within more than one year as non-current assets.
a Basis of accounting The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except revenues which are rounded to the nearest whole million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments: available-for-sale financial assets: and financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged items: and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, where applicable, are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these consolidated financial statements.
b Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The nature of the markets in which the Group operates leads, from time to time, to a variety of possible legal and other claims from customers.
Whenever such matters are notified to the Group, they are investigated and any liability which results is recognised in the accounts as soon as a reliable estimate can be made.
Where it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of any future liability, a contingent liability is disclosed.
The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses.
The sale agreements contained various warranties and indemnities.
In some cases, the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, sometimes contingent on future events.
At the time of disposal, the accounts reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements.
Estimates are updated at each reporting date to reflect the latest information available.
72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Information about other areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in the financial statements are described in the notes which follow, on Revenue: Acquisitions: Intangible assets: Deferred tax assets and liabilities: Financial risk management: Employee benefits: Share-based payments: Provisions for liabilities and charges and Contingencies.
c Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December.
Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Fund interest in the IMI Scottish Limited partnership the partnership.
Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Basis of consolidation prior to 1 January 2010 Certain of the above-mentioned requirements were applied on a prospective basis.
The non-controlling interests have not been restated at 1 January 2010 in respect of the previously applied basis of consolidation in the following respects: Acquisition of non-controlling interests, prior to 1 January 2010, was accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby, the difference between the consideration and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired were recognised in goodwill.
Losses incurred by the subsidiary were proportionally attributed to the non-controlling interest until the balance was reduced to nil.
Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover these.
Losses prior to 1 January 2010 were not reallocated between non-controlling interests and the parent shareholders.
Upon loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date control was lost.
The carrying value of such investments at 1 January 2010 has not been restated.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies continued d Foreign currencies i Foreign currency transactions Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in profit before taxation in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
ii Foreign operations The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to year end rates is taken directly to reserves.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly as a separate component of equity.
Since 1 January 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
e Financial instruments and fair value hedging Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other financial institutions are classified as available for sale assets under IAS39, and held at fair value.
Short term borrowings and overdrafts are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are classified as fair value through profit or loss under IAS39, unless designated as hedges.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition changes in fair value of such derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net financial income or expense.
Long term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where the long term loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying value of the long term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the hedge.
Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables are stated at cost.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Available for sale assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement.
f Other hedging i Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or forecast transactions Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, or financial commitment or a forecast transaction, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense.
74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
ii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective.
The Company assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument.
g Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in contracts held by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The minority interest was accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby the difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the share in net assets acquired was recognised in goodwill.
Goodwill was initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities was greater than the cost of the investment, the difference was recognised in profit and loss.
Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 31 December 2003 was recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and not amortised.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill was stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying amount being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash generating units was taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
Contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
h Intangible assets i Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
ii Other acquired intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iii Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes available for use.
The estimated maximum useful lives are as follows: Capitalised development costs 5 years Customer relationships Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years Order book Period of the outstanding order book Other intangible assets Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS i Property, plant and equipment Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution received from customers.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit so as to write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives within the following ranges: Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Tooling Shorter of the life of tooling or 10 years j Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation see above and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
The majority of leasing transactions entered into by the Group are operating leases.
k Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In respect of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production and the appropriate proportion of production overheads.
l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
m Impairment The carrying values of the Groups non-financial assets other than inventories see accounting policy Inventories and deferred tax assets see accounting policy Income tax, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets within its cash generating unit is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups receivables other than financial assets held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset.
Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies continued m Impairments continued The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use an individual assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash generating unit based upon the latest Group three year plan and extrapolated using an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity consistent with long term GDP growth are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Management believe that this approach, including the use of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate based upon historical experience and as this is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairment As required by IAS36: Impairment of Assets, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale financial assets is non-reversible.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
n Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or by the subsidiarys shareholders in respect of dividends to non-controlling interests.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution pension plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit pension plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised in profit or loss in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted.
78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iv Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in note 20.
For options granted on or after 7 November 2002, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
p Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
q Revenue i Sale of products Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable measurement is possible.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2000, are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for the Interpretation of Trade Terms.
Sales made outside of Incoterms 2000 are generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
ii Services Revenue from services rendered is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer.
Installation fees are recognised as revenue by reference to the stage of completion on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which case they are recognised when the goods are sold.
iii Construction contracts Revenue from significant machinery or valve contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the specific contract terms unless the contract contains discrete components separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer.
Where separate components are present revenue is recognised on each component in accordance with the policy on the sale of products.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies continued r Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately where either the quantum, the one-off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance.
The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements: Restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities: The employee benefit curtailment gain on the closure of the UK scheme to future accrual: The amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible fixed assets: Gains and losses including fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments excluding the reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses within segmental profit.
The tax impact of the above items is also shown within Exceptional items.
s Financial income and expense Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared.
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents the difference between the assumed interest on employee benefit plan liabilities and the assumed returns on employee benefit plan assets.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
t Income tax Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
u Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Where applicable, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.
80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Groups operating segments.
The operating segment reporting format reflects the Groups management and internal reporting structures.
The Group includes the following five operating segments and activities: Fluid Controls Severe Service Design, manufacture, supply and service of high performance critical control valves and associated equipment for power generation plants, oil & gas producers and other process industries.
Fluid Power Design, manufacture and supply of motion and fluid control systems, principally pneumatic devices, for original equipment manufacturers in commercial vehicle, life science, rail, energy, food and beverage and other industries.
Indoor Climate Design, manufacture and supply of indoor climate control systems, principally balancing valves for large commercial buildings and thermostatic radiator valves for residential buildings.
Retail Dispense Beverage Dispense Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners and retailers.
Merchandising Design, manufacture and supply of point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers.
Information regarding the operations of each reporting segment is included below.
Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the profit reported by the businesses, stated before exceptional items including restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation, reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses and the employee benefit curtailment on the UK scheme.
Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Groups policy to minimise the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins.
Segmental operating profits are therefore charged credited with the impact of these contracts.
In accordance with IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the statutory consolidated income statement.
Segmental information continued Reconciliation of reported segmental revenue and operating profit Revenue Profit 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Segmental result 1,917 1,785 319.7 234.2 Restructuring costs 16.0 34.9 Employee benefit curtailment - UK scheme 15.1 - Acquired intangible amortisation 7.0 7.2 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains losses 6 7 2.7 8.9 Total revenue operating profit reported 1,911 1,792 309.1 201.0 Net financial expense 3.0 14.8 Profit before tax - continuing operations 306.1 186.2 Balance Sheet Segment Segment assets liabilities 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Fluid Controls 1,128.3 888.5 337.5 251.2 Severe Service 554.0 328.0 168.0 110.0 Fluid Power 426.5 420.0 106.1 89.4 Indoor Climate 147.8 140.5 63.4 51.8 Retail Dispense 275.0 284.0 80.9 71.7 Beverage Dispense 137.1 145.9 53.0 49.5 Merchandising 137.9 138.1 27.9 22.2 Total 1,403.3 1,172.5 418.4 322.9 Reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities to Group balance sheet Assets Liabilities 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Segment assets and liabilities 1,403.3 1,172.5 418.4 322.9 Corporate items 14.9 25.1 77.7 96.2 Employee benefits 1.6 0.6 201.0 258.1 Investments 19.2 17.7 Funds borrowings 122.9 81.0 268.3 253.4 Net taxation and others 61.1 93.8 81.8 58.1 Per Group balance sheet 1,623.0 1,390.7 1,047.2 988.7 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information Restructuring Capital Depreciation & costs expenditure amortisation 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Fluid Controls 10.7 26.8 41.9 34.5 46.8 47.3 Severe Service 4.8 2.7 20.0 13.5 11.2 10.8 Fluid Power 3.1 21.0 15.0 15.7 28.3 28.4 Indoor Climate 2.8 3.1 6.9 5.3 7.3 8.1 Retail Dispense 5.3 8.1 8.7 7.7 11.3 12.0 Beverage Dispense 5.0 7.1 4.9 5.8 8.3 8.3 Merchandising 0.3 1.0 3.8 1.9 3.0 3.7 Subtotal 16.0 34.9 50.6 42.2 58.1 59.3 Corporate - - 0.2 - 0.5 0.7 Total 16.0 34.9 50.8 42.2 58.6 60.0 Revenue by geographical destination 2010 2009 m m UK 141 132 Germany 261 234 Rest of Europe 542 524 USA 543 491 Asia Pacific 285 278 Rest of World 145 126 Total segmental revenue 1,917 1,785 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains losses 6 7 Total 1,911 1,792 No individual customer, or group of customers, represents more than 10% of Group revenue 2009: none.
Segmental analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax, employee benefit assets, other receivables and other financial assets by geographical origin Non-current assets 2010 2009 m m UK 99.4 108.6 Germany 178.8 77.1 Rest of Europe 186.5 179.1 USA 232.5210.7 Asia Pacific 47.2 36.3 Rest of World 14.0 7.6 Total 758.4 619.4 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Acquisitions 3.1 Controlling interests The Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Zimmermann & Jansen Technologies GmbH Z&J on 31 December 2010 for consideration net of cash acquired of 109.5m.
This includes 6.3m due from the vendor, which is subject to agreement through the completion accounts process.
The results of this acquisition will be reported within Severe Service, however there is no impact on the Groups 2010 results.
Z&J manufactures critical process valve solutions for severe applications, primarily focused in the Refining and Petrochemical and Iron and Steel markets.
Approximately 40% of revenue is generated from emerging markets, including Russia, India and China and Z&J has manufacturing facilities in Germany, USA and South Africa.
The Group completed this acquisition as Z&Js activities in these markets open up a number of opportunities for the combined business.
Assuming that the acquisition of Z&J had been completed on 1 January 2010, it is estimated that the Group segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been 2,000m and 333.7m respectively.
The methodology for arriving at fair value, intangible asset values and residual goodwill is described in the accounting policies in note 1 to these financial statements.
The goodwill of 49.4m recognised on acquisition principally relates to skills present within the assembled workforce, customer service capability and the synergies available to the combined business from its geographical and sector presence.
The fair value adjustments relate principally to the harmonisation with Group IFRS compliant accounting policies, recognition of intangible assets which principally comprise the value of non-contractual customer relationships and the order book at acquisition and adjustments to move the carrying value of the identifiable net assets from cost to fair value.
Transaction costs of 1.9m have been expensed and are included within administrative expenses.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are summarised below: Fair value of net assets acquired m Customer relationships 54.5 Order book 18.5 Capitalised development cost 2.8 Patents and licences 1.5 Property, plant and equipment 11.5 Inventories 20.9 Trade and other receivables 15.9 Cash and short-term deposits 14.9 Trade and other payables 32.8 Current tax 5.4 Retirement benefit obligations 5.2 Deferred tax 22.1 Total identifiable net assets 75.0 Goodwill arising on acquisition 49.4 Total purchase consideration 124.4 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash flows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: Cash flows from acquisition of controlling interests m Purchase consideration: Cash 130.7 Receivable from vendor 6.3 Total purchase consideration for Z&J 124.4 Less cash acquired 14.9 Receivable from vendor 6.3 Net cash paid on acquisition of Z&J 115.8 Deferred consideration in respect of previous acquisitions 1.6 Included in cash flow from investing activities 117.4 Transaction costs of the acquisition included in cash flows from operating activities 1.9 Total cash flow on acquisition of controlling interests 119.3 Trade and other receivables of 15.9m are stated after a provision for bad debts of 1.3m.
The net amount is all expected to be collected within 12 months.
Given the proximity of the acquisition to the year end, the fair values of all assets acquired and consideration for Z&J have been provisionally determined at 31 December 2010.
Completion accounts have been prepared and adjustments to both consideration and the fair value of assets acquired may arise when these are finalised.
During the year the Group paid 1.6m deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of 70% of Pneumatex AG originally completed on 28 December 2007.
On 17 December 2009 the Company acquired the assets of NASS Parts and Service for a cash consideration of 1.4m.
The fair value of the net assets acquired was 0.4m resulting in goodwill of 1.0m.
The result of this acquisition is reported within Beverage Dispense: however there was no impact on the 2009 results.
Had NASS Parts and Service been acquired at the beginning of 2009 Group segmental revenue in that year would have been 1,788m and the impact on segmental operating profit would not have been material.
3.2 Non-controlling interests The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership the partnership was established during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The IMI Pension Fund agreed to invest a special contribution of 48.6m made by the Group during the year into the partnership, giving them rights to receive income of 4.4m per year for twenty years.
The partnership is fully consolidated in these accounts with the pension funds interest presented within equity in the Groups consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
The investment valuation at 31 December 2010 was provided by the Trustee, based on an independent valuation prepared for the Trustee in June 2010.
In December 2009 the Group exercised its option to purchase the remaining 30% non-controlling interest in Pneumatex AG, the controlling interest in which was originally acquired on 28 December 2007.
The exercise of the purchase option in December was unconditional and the whole controlling interest accordingly passed to IMI at that date.
Consideration of 12.2m was accrued at 31 December 2009 resulting in goodwill of 6.1m.
The transaction was finalised on 26 April 2010 and final consideration of 12.4m was transferred.
This was prior to the adoption of the amended IAS27: Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
On 1 January 2009 the remaining 19.1% non-controlling interest in Display Technologies LLC, part of the Merchandising group, was acquired by the Group under the terms of the original purchase agreement.
At that date the net assets of the company were 6.3m.
Based on the contracted pricing mechanism the cash consideration paid was 18.1m, resulting in goodwill of 16.9m.
Display Technologies LLC was originally acquired in June 2001.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Operating profit 2010 2009 m m Revenue i 1,911.3 1,791.8 Cost of sales ii 1,097.4 1,058.4 Gross profit 813.9 733.4 Selling and distribution costs iii 234.0 235.7 Administrative expenses iv 270.8 296.7 Operating profit 309.1 201.0 i includes reversal of 5.8m economic hedge contract gains 2009: loss 6.9m ii includes 1.9m restructuring costs 2009: 7.3m and a reversal of 3.1m economic hedge contract gains 2009: 2.0m iii includes 2.7m restructuring costs 2009: 3.8m iv includes 11.4m restructuring costs 2009: 23.8m, 7.0m of acquired intangible amortisation 2009: 7.2m and and a curtailment gain of 15.1m on the closure of the UK pension scheme to future accrual 5.
Discontinued operations During the year the General Court of the European Union issued its judgement on the Groups appeal against the fine levied in 2005 in respect of allegations of anti-competitive behaviour among certain manufacturers of copper tube.
The result of the appeal was a reduction in the fine of 5.4m.
This income has been shown as discontinued operations as it relates to a business that was sold in 2002.
Consideration of 7.4m received during the second half of the year in relation to the disposal of Polypipe during 2005 has also been credited within profit from discontinued operations.
In previous years a financial asset of 4.2m was recognised in respect of the estimated deferred contingent consideration payable in respect of Polypipe.
This was derecognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within the fair value loss on available for sale financial instruments of 2.5m on receipt of this payment.
No tax is chargeable on the discontinued items in 2010.
The basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations was 4.0p 2009: nil.
86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Net financial income and expense restated note 1 2010 2009 Financial Financial Interest Instruments Total Interest Instruments Total Recognised in the income statement m m m m m m Interest income on bank deposits 5.2 5.2 3.7 3.7 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.5 0.5 2.0 2.0 Other economic hedges - current year trading 9.6 9.6 11.6 11.6 - future year transactions 10.4 10.4 23.6 23.6 Financial income 5.2 20.5 25.7 3.7 37.2 40.9 Interest expense on interest bearing loans and borrowings 20.7 20.7 22.2 22.2 Interest cost capitalised 0.2 0.2 - - Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.4 0.4 1.9 1.9 Other economic hedges - current year trading 7.3 7.3 20.1 20.1 - future year transactions 0.5 0.5 7.5 7.5 Financial expense 20.5 8.2 28.7 22.2 29.5 51.7 Net finance expense relating to - defined benefit pension schemes - - 4.0 4.0 Net financial expense income 15.3 12.3 3.0 22.5 7.7 14.8 Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes see note 2 are included in segmental operating profit.
For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net financial income and expense above.
Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash flows.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Net financial income and expense continued Recognised in other comprehensive income 2010 2009 m m Foreign currency translation differences 16.9 28.1 Change in fair value of other financial assets 2.5 1.2 Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges 6.5 13.3 Income tax on financial income expense recognised directly in equity 0.9 0.7 Financial income expense recognised directly in equity net of tax 8.8 14.3 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 4.7 9.6 Translation reserve 15.7 24.3 Retained earnings 2.5 1.2 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.8 8.8 14.3 7.
The following have been charged in arriving at profit before tax 2010 2009 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 47.2 48.7 Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 11.4 11.3 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets 1.4 1.5 Loss on disposal of investments 0.1 - Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.4 2.3 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Tax services 0.1 0.4 Other services 0.2 0.3 Rentals under operating leases: Property rents 20.7 21.2 Hire of plant and machinery 8.0 7.7 Research and development 36.9 34.2 Exchange losses on operating activities net of hedging arrangements 1.0 2.3 In addition to the above, 5.0m 2009: 4.9m has been capitalised.
88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Taxation 2010 2009 m m m m a Recognised in the income statement: Current tax expense UK corporation tax: Current tax on income for the year 9.3 5.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.2 9.5 4.8 Overseas tax: Current tax on income for the year 58.2 45.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 2.2 58.3 43.2 Total current tax 67.8 48.0 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 24.7 5.8 Total income tax expense 92.5 53.8 b Total current and deferred tax recognised directly in equity: On equity-settled transactions 4.8 0.7 On gains and losses of financial instruments 1.8 3.7 On actuarial gains and losses 3.4 44.0 On foreign currency translation differences 0.9 3.0 9.1 44.0 c Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2010 2009 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptionals items Total exceptionals Items Total m m m m m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 304.4 1.7 306.1 211.7 25.5 186.2 Income tax using the Companys domestic rate of tax of 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 85.2 0.5 85.7 59.3 7.1 52.2 Effects of: Non-taxable non-deductible items 0.1 1.7 1.8 1.2 2.2 1.0 Utilisation of tax losses 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1.8 1.8 1.0 1.0 Differing tax rates in different jurisdictions 4.7 1.0 3.7 2.7 0.5 2.2 Over provided in prior years 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 Total tax in income statement on continuing operations 91.3 1.2 92.5 63.6 9.8 53.8 The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is 28%.
The effective tax rate before exceptional items is 30% 2009: 30%.
The effective tax rate on profit before tax is 30% after taking account of exceptional items 2009: 28.9%.
As the Group operates worldwide it is subject to several factors which may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions in which the Group may or may not have offsetting tax losses and the various tax rates imposed in those jurisdictions.
The Finance No 2 Act 2010 reduced the main rate of UK Corporation Tax from 28% to 27% from 1 April 2011.
Additional changes to the main rate of UK Corporation Tax are proposed, to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 24% by 1 April 2014.
These changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and consequently are not included in these financial statements.
Further UK tax changes, subject to enactment, apply to reduction in the rates of tax depreciation from 1 April 2011, which will impact deferred tax.
No tax is chargeable on the discontinued operations in 2010.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.
Earnings per ordinary share The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, net of shares held as treasury shares or held in trust to satisfy employee share schemes, was 319.0m, 323.8m diluted for the effect of outstanding share options 2009: 318.8m, 321.0m diluted.
Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of 224.7m 2009: 130.2m.
On continuing operations the basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of 211.9m 2009: 130.2m.
The directors consider that adjusted earnings per share figures, using earnings as calculated below, give a more meaningful indication of the underlying performance because either the quantum, the one off nature, or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying performance.
2010 2009 m m Profit for the year from continuing operations 213.6 132.4 Non-controlling interests 1.7 2.2 211.9 130.2 Charges credits included in profit for the year: Restructuring costs 16.0 34.9 Employee benefit curtailment - UK scheme 15.1 - Acquired intangible amortisation 7.0 7.2 Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains and losses 9.6 16.6 210.2 155.7 Taxation on charges credits included in profit before tax 1.2 9.8 Earnings for adjusted EPS 211.4 145.9 Weighted average number of shares 319.0m 318.8m Adjusted EPS 66.3p 45.8p Diluted adjusted EPS 65.3p 45.5p 10.
Employee information The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 2010 2009 Fluid Controls 9,992 10,413 Retail Dispense 2,988 3,093 Corporate 184 183 Total 13,164 13,689 The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff.
As Z&J was acquired on 31 December 2010, these employees are also excluded.
The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was: m m Wages and salaries 456.3 436.7 Share-based payments see note 20 5.5 4.1 Social security costs 70.9 67.2 Pension costs 0.8 10.5 Total 533.5 518.5 Includes curtailment benefit of 15.1m from the closure of the UK pension scheme.
The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated based on the discounted cash flows of the cash generating unit being tested for impairment.
The key assumptions in the discounted cash flow calculations are the growth rate and the discount rate.
The growth rate is based on the 3 year long term forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity at 2.25%, which is consistent with the long term growth rates of the industry in which the Group operates.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units based on the synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition on which the goodwill arose.
The Group has approximately 40 cash generating units to which goodwill is attached and no single cash generating unit represents a significant proportion of the total goodwill.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 10% and 15% are applied in determining the recoverable amounts of cash generating units.
The discount rates are estimated based on the Groups cost of capital, risk adjusted for individual units circumstances.
The Groups estimates of impairments of goodwill are most sensitive to increases in the discount rate used and the long term growth rates used in the forecast cash flows.
These growth rates vary significantly depending on the circumstances of each cash generating unit and have been based on the business reviews carried out in the year.
There is significant headroom between value in use and carrying value for all cash generating units to which goodwill is attached and therefore no impairment would arise from a reasonably possible change in the assumptions.
The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004 amounted to 364m.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Depreciation for the year on these assets was 0.6m 2009: 0.6m.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Non-current assets 9.5 10.1 63.1 38.1 53.6 28.0 Inventories 6.5 6.7 5.5 5.4 1.0 1.3 Revaluation of derivatives 1.1 0.6 2.7 1.6 1.6 1.0 Employee benefits and provisions 92.3 97.5 5.0 2.7 87.3 94.8 Tax assets 2.9 7.5 2.9 7.5 112.3 122.4 76.3 47.8 36.0 74.6 Set off of tax 56.0 32.8 56.0 32.8 - - 56.3 89.6 20.3 15.0 36.0 74.6 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of 25.7m 2009: 26.2m have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of 97.5m 2009: 95.2m.
The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date, and the assets have not been recognised due to uncertainty over their recoverability.
It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption.
However 48.7m 2009: 35.5m of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed 5.2m 2009: 3.0m of which only 1.0m has been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of the dividends.
It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
Movement in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year Recognised Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions Balance at at 1 Jan 10 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 10 m m m m m m Non-current assets 28.0 0.6 - 0.5 24.5 53.6 Inventories 1.3 0.6 - - 0.3 1.0 Revaluation of derivatives 1.0 0.3 - 0.3 - 1.6 Employee benefits and provisions 94.8 18.5 8.5 0.4 2.1 87.3 Tax assets 7.5 4.7 - 0.1 - 2.9 74.6 24.7 8.5 0.3 22.1 36.0 Recognised Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions Balance at at 1 Jan 09 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 09 m m m m m m Non-current assets 23.7 6.2 - 1.9 - 28.0 Inventories 1.3 0.6 - 0.6 - 1.3 Revaluation of derivatives 4.6 4.8 - 0.8 - 1.0 Employee benefits 48.6 5.1 43.4 2.3 - 94.8 Tax assets 7.0 0.7 - 0.2 - 7.5 37.8 5.8 43.4 0.8 - 74.6 All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve.
Of the 8.5m 2009: 43.4m recognised directly in equity 4.3m 2009: 43.3m was charged in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and 4.2m 2009: 0.1m was charged directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Inventories 2010 2009 m m Raw materials and consumables 101.4 85.7 Work in progress 94.0 72.8 Finished goods 92.6 91.4 288.0 249.9 In 2010 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to 1,091.1m 2009: 1,042.2m.
In 2010 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 5.1m 2009: 9.4m.
The reversal of writedowns amounted to 0.7m 2009: 0.5m.
The write-down and reversal are included in cost of sales.
Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Groups businesses.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 Falling due for payment within one year m m Trade receivables 314.9 276.1 Other receivables 15.8 18.0 Prepayments and accrued income 14.1 11.9 344.8 306.0 Receivables are stated after: Allowance for impairment 17.4 17.8 The Groups exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 18.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information about the Group exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18.
2010 2009 m m Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 12.9 0.7 Secured other loans - 0.2 Current portion of finance lease obligations 0.3 0.3 13.2 1.2 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 252.2 246.3 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.6 252.6 246.9 17.
Trade and other payables 2010 2009 Current m m Trade payables 231.7 157.6 Bills of exchange payable 5.1 2.9 Other taxation 15.5 12.6 Social security 4.5 5.5 Other payables 1.5 0.5 Accruals and deferred income 164.9 161.5 423.2 340.6 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management Overview The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 42, this responsibility has been assigned to the Executive Committee with support and feedback from the Audit Committee and the IMI Group Assurance Department as described below.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The IMI Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Groups funding and liquidity as well as its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements are managed centrally by IMIs treasury function.
Treasury uses a combination of derivatives and conventional financial instruments to manage the underlying risks.
These derivatives and financial instruments themselves introduce exposure to the following risks: Credit risk Market risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks, including each of the above risks, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers, cash and cash equivalents held by the Groups banks and other financial assets.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, have less of an influence on credit risk.
Approximately 4% 2009: 3% of the Groups revenue is attributable to sales transactions with our largest single customer.
Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk.
The Groups contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk profile of the contract, including potential credit risks, is reviewed.
Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash flow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate.
Counterparty risk A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services - with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution.
Financial derivatives are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the counterparties.
At the end of 2010 credit exposure including cash deposited did not exceed 22m with any single institution 2009: 8m.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holding of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business, and also manages financial liabilities, in order to mitigate market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued Currency risk The Group publishes consolidated accounts in Pound Sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies.
As a result it is subject to the risks associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs transactions, translation of foreign profits profit translation and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations asset translation.
Transactions The Groups wide geographic spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures.
It is the Groups policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments primarily forward exchange contracts.
A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging is topped up following regular reviews.
On this basis up to 50% of the Groups annual exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Groups net transactional exposure to different currencies varies from time to time.
Profit translation The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign currencies into the Pound Sterling based income statement.
The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this exposure.
Short term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited protection against Pound Sterling strength on an opportunistic basis.
The translation of US Dollar and Euro based profits remain the primary risk to the Group.
Asset translation The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way of external currency loans and currency forward contracts.
The intention is to manage the Groups exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates.
To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is recognised directly in reserves.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Detail of the quantum and management of this exposure is provided in note 18.2.
Interest rate risk As a result of the Groups management of its asset translation risks, it is exposed to a number of global interest rates - the most important of which are US, Eurozone and UK rates.
The analysis of this exposure is shown in note 18.3 of these financial statements.
The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at fixed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Groups income statement is manageable.
The Group has raised US Dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long term fixed rate Loan Notes.
In order to manage its exposure to interest rates, US$30m of this fixed rate exposure was hedged back to floating through the use of interest rate swaps in 1999 covering loan notes with a maturity of 2014.
The interest component of the fair value of this portion of the Loan Notes has been designated as a hedged item and has been revalued accordingly in the financial statements.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps is included in the balance sheet at 3.8m 2009: 4.0m.
The hedged item is included in the value of the debt as an increase in liability of 3.8m 2009: increase 4.0m.
Exposure to other interest rate volatility is managed through a combination of fixed rate debt and derivative instruments where appropriate.
Commodity risk The Groups operating companies purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material value of approximately 26m 2009: 20m.
It manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging copper, zinc and aluminium designed to protect short term margins.
The exposure is managed using a combination of financial contracts and local supply agreements in order to minimise the short term impact of metal price volatility.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions.
This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis.
96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series of US Loan Note issues.
The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions and corporate activity, including acquisitions and organic growth plans.
At the end of 2010 the Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling 213m 2009: 277m and was holding cash and cash equivalents of 123m 2009: 81m.
There are no significant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas for the Group.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business including acquisitions.
The Board monitors the demographic spread of its shareholders and employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
The underlying capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt.
Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax assets form part of the extended capital base.
Management of this element of the capital base is discussed further in note 19 to the financial statements.
Undrawn committed funding facilities are maintained as described above to provide additional capital for growth including acquisitions and organic investments and liquidity requirements as discussed above.
18.1 Capital Base 2010 2009 m m Total equity 576 402 Gross Debt 268 253 Cash 123 81 Capital base 721 574 Employee benefits and deferred tax assets 143 168 Extended capital base 864 742 Undrawn funding facilities 213 277 Available capital base 1,077 1,019 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base of the assets being funded as described in the paragraph on asset translation earlier in this section.
The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the Company is considered regularly by the Board in the light of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a maximum of 3 times EBITDA.
The Board would consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to an internal limit of up to 2 to 2.5 times EBITDA as long as prevailing market conditions and outlook for our existing businesses supported such a move.
It is expected that at these levels our debt would still be perceived as investment grade.
The potential benefits to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of funding.
As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder dividends.
The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend should be covered by at least 2 times earnings.
In the event that the Board cannot identify sufficient growth opportunities through organic investment and acquisitions, the return of funds to shareholders through share buy backs or special dividends will be considered.
It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market by an employee benefit trust in order to hedge the exposure under certain management incentive plans.
Details of these purchases are shown in note 22 to the financial statements.
The Board will consider raising additional equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group.
The Group currently uses a post tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of 8% as a benchmark for investment returns.
This is reviewed regularly in the light of changes in market rates.
The Board tracks the Groups return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers returns in excess of the WACC.
Consistent with this objective the growth in Economic Value Added EVA is used as a metric in the Groups long term incentive programmes.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.2 Currency profile of assets and liabilities Assets excluding Exchange Net Net cash and debt Cash Debt contracts assets assets 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 m m m m m m Sterling 28 23 - 341 336 303 US Dollar 268 12 254 6 32 7 Euro 266 24 13 222 55 1 Other 215 64 1 125 153 107 Total 721 123 268 - 576 402 Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets.
18.3 Interest rate risk profile Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2010 2010 2010 2010 rate rate is fixed m m m m % years Sterling - 364 364 - US Dollar 254 18 7 229 6.8 7.1 Euro 235 24 168 43 2.4 1.1 Other 126 64 62 - Total 615 470 127 272 Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2009 2009 2009 2009 rate rate is fixed m m m m % years Sterling 2 309 307 - US Dollar 261 7 26 228 6.8 8.1 Euro 188 17 127 44 2.4 2.1 Other 108 54 54 - Total 559 387 100 272 Interest rates are managed using fixed and floating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps.
Floating rate liabilities comprise short term debt which bears interest at short term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter bank rates.
All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are considered as floating rate investments.
Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the above two analyses.
98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.4 Undrawn committed facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Expiring within one year 112 50 Expiring between one and two years 101 125 Expiring after more than two years - 102 213 277 The weighted average life of these facilities is 0.7 years 2009: 1.5 years.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.6 Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets Cost value Fair value m m m m m m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents - - 122.9 - 122.9 122.9 Bank overdrafts - - - 2.5 2.5 2.5 Borrowings due within one year - - - 13.2 13.2 13.2 Borrowings due after one year 22.9 - - 229.7 252.6 277.8 Trade payables - - - 231.7 231.7 231.7 Trade receivables - - - 314.9 314.9 314.9 Investments - - 19.2 - 19.2 19.2 Other current financial assets liabilities Derivative assets 3.8 12.0 6.3 - 22.1 22.1 Derivative liabilities 2.1 2.5 - 4.6 4.6 Total 21.2 9.5 148.4 162.2 25.5 50.7 Includes 7.0m falling due after more than one year 2009: 3.6m.
Derivative liabilities include liabilities of 0.6m falling due in more than one year 0.2m in 1-2 yrs, 0.2m in 2-3 yrs and 0.2m in 3-4 yrs.
Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives.
The reduction in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of 6.5m is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Trade payables are all due within one year.
Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets Cost value Fair value m m m m m m 2009 Cash and cash equivalents - - 81.0 - 81.0 81.0 Bank overdrafts - - - 5.3 5.3 5.3 Borrowings due within one year - - - 1.2 1.2 1.2 Borrowings due after one year 22.7 - - 224.2 246.9 247.1 Trade payables - - - 157.6 157.6 157.6 Trade receivables - - - 276.1 276.1 276.1 Investments - - 17.7 - 17.7 17.7 Other current financial assets liabilities Derivative assets 8.4 4.3 4.2 - 16.9 16.9 Derivative liabilities 0.4 3.6 - 4.0 4.0 Total 14.7 0.7 102.9 112.2 23.3 23.5 Includes 3.6m falling due after more than one year.
Derivative assets designated at fair value includes the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives of 4.4m.
Derivative liabilities include liabilities of 1.8m falling due in more than one year 0.6m in 1-2 yrs, 0.4m in 2-3 yrs, 0.4m in 3- 4 yrs and 0.4m in 4-5 yrs.
Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classified as derivatives at fair value through the income statement.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Valuations Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, short term borrowings, trade payables, trade receivables and other assets are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short term nature of the instruments.
Long term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity.
The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads.
Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash flows.
Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal commodity hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities.
Investments are primarily in publically quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas unfunded pension liabilities.
The fair value is based on the price quotation at the reporting date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements of 22.9m 2009: 22.7m and derivative assets of 22.1m 2009: 16.9m and liabilities of 4.6m 2009: 4.0m are valued by Level 2 techniques.
Investments are valued by Level 1 techniques.
18.7 Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was 164.2m 2009: 115.6m.
Carrying amount 2010 2009 m m Cash and cash equivalents 122.9 81.0 Investments 19.2 17.7 Other available for sale financial assets 6.3 4.2 Interest rate swaps 3.8 4.0 Forward exchange contracts 11.7 8.4 Metals contracts 0.3 0.3 164.2 115.6 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December 2010 by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2010 2009 m m UK 25.7 23.0 Germany 29.9 19.5 Rest of Europe 101.9 99.1 USA 75.5 68.2 Asia Pacific 59.8 48.8 Rest of World 22.1 17.5 314.9 276.1 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.7 Exposure to credit risk continued The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by business sector was: Carrying amount 2010 2009 m m Severe Service 115.8 92.3 Fluid Power 99.8 83.9 Indoor Climate 39.3 38.0 Beverage Dispense 40.6 42.0 Merchandising 19.4 19.9 314.9 276.1 The Groups most significant customer, a food and beverage company, accounts for 1.5% of trade receivables carrying amount at 31 December 2010 2009: 2.5%.
Impairments The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2010 2009 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment m m m m Not past due 275.3 1.1 232.8 1.4 Past due 1-30 days 31.7 0.8 26.0 0.8 Past due 31-90 days 9.0 1.0 14.5 1.4 Past due over 90 days 16.3 14.5 20.6 14.2 Total 332.3 17.4 293.9 17.8 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Net balance at 1 January 17.8 12.9 Charged to the income statement 3.7 10.2 Utilised during the year 2.6 2.9 Released 1.7 1.4 Exchange 0.2 1.0 Net balance at 31 December 17.4 17.8 The impairment gain recognised of 0.1m 2009: loss 5.9m relates to the movement in the Groups assessment of the risk of non-recovery from a range of customers across all of its businesses.
102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.8 Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments As described elsewhere in this note 18, the Group uses financial instruments including debt and derivatives to reduce its underlying balance sheet and income statement exposure to volatility in interest rates, currency rates and base metal commodity prices.
In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments we have assumed a reasonable potential change in interest rates, currency rates or metal prices.
The method used assumes that all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity.
The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets.
As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments.
Financial instruments sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial instruments and do not reflect the opposite movement from the impact of the specific change on the underlying business.
1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% 10% increase 10% decrease in interest in interest weakening strengthening in base metal in base metal rates rates in Sterling in Sterling costs costs m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 Impact on income statement: loss gain 0.4 0.4 5.0 5.0 0.2 0.2 Impact on equity: loss gain - - 49.0 49.0 - - At 31 December 2009 Impact on income statement: loss gain 0.9 0.9 4.9 4.9 0.2 0.2 Impact on equity: loss gain - - 46.1 46.1 - - The above sensitivities are estimates of the impact of market risk on financial instruments only.
As noted, it is the Groups policy to use financial instruments to manage its underlying exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements.
In accordance with this policy, the Group is confident that the underlying risks that these financial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction.
To the extent that the underlying currency, interest rate or metals price exposure is not fully hedged, the Group will remain exposed to movements in these variables.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benefits Pension arrangements, other post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements are accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS19.
As at 31 December 2010 the Group continues to provide pension benefits through a mixture of defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements.
Contributions to defined contribution arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
The Group has 79 different defined benefit arrangements worldwide.
The major pension and other post-employment benefit arrangements are funded with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation.
Assessments of the obligations for funded and unfunded plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method.
Pension costs primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for projected benefits based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on the assets.
Movements in the pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions are recognised through equity.
The Group also provides a number of other long-term arrangements to our employees, with benefits payable more than 12 months after the related services are rendered.
These plans are generally not funded and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Groups strategy is to move away from defined benefit arrangements towards defined contribution arrangements wherever possible and to minimise the liability of the Group.
During 2010 six defined benefit arrangements were closed to new entrants and five to future accrual.
The largest defined benefit arrangement is the IMI Pension Fund in the UK the Fund.
This constitutes 83% of the total defined benefit liabilities and 88% of the total assets.
The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2008 and this was the first valuation undertaken in accordance with the Scheme Specific Funding provisions of the Pensions Act 2004.
The statement of funding principles agreed with the Trustee resulted in an actuarial deficit of 118m.
The Group agreed to pay special contributions of 16.8m in December 2008 and July 2009, 2010 and 2011 as part of the recovery plan to close the deficit by 2016.
The valuation as at 31 March 2011 will determine an updated funding position and the Group will agree with the Trustee an appropriate recovery plan to meet any deficit.
The Group recognises there is a risk inherent within defined benefit arrangements that the assets do not match the liabilities at any given point in time.
In advance of the IMI Pension Fund 2011 triennial actuarial valuation, the Group has worked with the Trustee to mitigate the risk of a volatile funding position.
A number of important initiatives were implemented in 2010 in line with this objective.
The Fund was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010, which resulted in a curtailment gain of 15.1m which has been recognised as an exceptional credit in the income statement.
The Trustee also purchased approximately 325m of annuities to match certain benefit payments due from the Fund.
The purchase price of these annuities was greater than the value, measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, of the insured benefits.
The Trustee also rearranged the remaining Fund assets with the objective of preserving the expected return on the total Fund assets including the annuity policies.
This was achieved, with a reduction in the funding volatility of the Fund, as measured by the Trustees value at risk model, of approximately 25%.
The purchase of the annuities also reduced the mortality risk by around 20%.
The difference between the cost of the annuities and the underlying IAS19 liability was financed by a special contribution to the Pension Fund of 48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in a special purpose vehicle giving them rights to receive income of 4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded.
The Group expects to agree a revised recovery plan with the Trustee in late 2011 or early 2012, but in any event by 30 June 2012.
104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reconciliation to the balance sheet as at 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Funded schemes in surplus: Fair value of assets - 21.8 - 21.8 - 36.9 - 36.9 Present value of defined benefit obligation - 19.1 - 19.1 - 35.2 - 35.2 - 2.7 - 2.7 - 1.7 - 1.7 Restriction due to asset ceiling - 1.1 - 1.1 - 1.1 - 1.1 Recognised assets for defined benefit funded schemes - 1.6 - 1.6 - 0.6 - 0.6 Funded schemes in deficit: Fair value of assets 981.5 112.7 - 1,094.2 926.6 81.3 - 1,007.9 Present value of defined benefit obligation 1,088.4 134.3 - 1,222.7 1,101.4 97.3 - 1,198.7 Recognised liabilities for defined benefit funded schemes 106.9 21.6 - 128.5 174.8 16.0 - 190.8 Present value of obligation for unfunded schemes 3.5 54.6 14.4 72.5 - 53.8 13.5 67.3 Recognised liabilities for defined benefit obligations 110.4 76.2 14.4 201.0 174.8 69.8 13.5 258.1 Recognised net liability for defined benefit obligations 110.4 74.6 14.4 199.4 174.8 69.2 13.5 257.5 Total fair value of assets 981.5 134.5 - 1,116.0 926.6 118.2 - 1,044.8 Total present value of defined benefit obligations 1,091.9 208.0 14.4 1,314.3 1,101.4 186.3 13.5 1,301.2 Asset ceiling - 1.1 - 1.1 - 1.1 - 1.1 Recognised net liability for defined benefit obligations 110.4 74.6 14.4 199.4 174.8 69.2 13.5 257.5 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benefits continued a Summary of assumptions Weighted averages 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Inflation rate 3.5 2.0 3.7 2.0 2.8 2.2 Discount rate 5.5 4.1 5.7 4.4 6.5 4.9 1 Expected rate of salary increases - 2.8 4.9 2.8 4.0 2.8 2 Rate of pension increases 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 2.8 0.5 2 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 2.8 0.5 3 Medical cost trend rate n a 5.0 n a 5.0 n a 5.0 Expected return on equities 7.4 7.3 8.1 7.6 7.9 7.0 Expected return on bonds 4.8 3.1 5.3 3.5 5.8 3.9 Expected return on property 6.7 5.1 7.0 5.6 7.0 4.9 4 Expected return on other assets 8.4 2.4 4.4 2.5 3.8 2.5 5 Overall expected return on assets 7.1 4.4 6.9 4.6 6.9 4.7 1 For 2009 and earlier, includes 0.2% pa as the average effect of the age-by-age promotional scale for UK.
2 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP for UK.
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the income statement.
4 There has been a material change in the assumed return on other assets in the UK which reflects changes in the IMI Pension Funds investment strategy during the year.
See note e below for further details.
5 Based on the distribution of assets set out in e below.
The mortality assumptions used for the IMI Pension Fund reflect its experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time.
The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2008, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2010 reflect the results of this review.
The table below shows the implied life expectancy from age 65 for the Funds current and future pensioners based on the assumptions adopted.
The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2008 is in line with the published medium cohort rates, with a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1%.
Implied life expectancy years from age 65 for: 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 Males Females Males Females Males Females Current pensioners 20.7 22.4 20.6 22.3 20.5 22.2 Future pensioners 22.7 24.3 22.6 24.2 22.5 24.1 The sensitivity of the balance sheet liability in respect of the IMI Pension Fund to changes in the key assumptions is shown in j below.
106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b Components of the pension expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes operating costs Current service cost 4.7 4.2 0.6 9.5 4.4 4.7 0.9 10.0 Past service cost - 0.8 - 0.8 - - 0.6 0.6 Recognition of losses gains - - 0.9 0.9 - - 0.3 0.3 Settlement curtailment 15.1 1.0 - 16.1 3.0 3.3 - 6.3 Total 10.4 2.4 1.5 6.5 1.4 1.4 1.2 4.0 Defined benefit schemes financial costs Interest cost 61.2 8.0 0.7 69.9 55.7 8.2 0.8 64.7 Expected return on assets 64.2 5.7 - 69.9 56.1 4.6 - 60.7 Total 3.0 2.3 0.7 - 0.4 3.6 0.8 4.0 Total defined benefit schemes pension expense 13.4 4.7 2.2 6.5 1.0 5.0 2.0 8.0 Pension expense from defined contribution schemes 1.0 6.3 - 7.3 1.0 5.5 - 6.5 Total pension expense 12.4 11.0 2.2 0.8 2.0 10.5 2.0 14.5 c Income and expense recognised through equity for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Actuarial losses during the year 18.6 3.5 - 22.1 151.6 2.1 - 153.7 Change in the effect of the asset ceiling - 0.1 - 0.1 - 0.4 - 0.4 1 Exchange loss gain - 1.5 0.2 1.7 - 6.2 1.4 7.6 Total losses gains recognised during the year 18.6 5.1 0.2 23.9 151.6 4.5 1.4 145.7 Cumulative amount of actuarial losses at the beginning of the year 197.4 25.7 5.7 228.8 45.8 30.2 7.1 83.1 Cumulative amount of actuarial losses at the end of the year 216.0 30.8 5.9 252.7 197.4 25.7 5.7 228.8 1 2010 figure includes 0.1m as gain on asset ceiling due to exchange rate movements.
Equivalent figure for 2009 was 0.1m loss.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 107 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
As at 31 December 2010 Other assets now include: Total return equity swaps with a current market value of 41m.
These contracts were executed in June 2010 and provide the IMI Pension Fund with a return equal to the difference between equity returns and LIBOR on a notional initial investment of 324m.
318m in respect of insurance annuity policies and the IMI Pension Funds interest in a special purpose vehicle.
146m in fund of hedge funds investments.
There are no assets that may be counted against the liabilities for overseas non-post employment arrangements.
108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS f Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total m m m m m m Fair value of assets at the beginning of the year 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 837.8 120.4 958.2 Expected return on assets 64.2 5.7 69.9 56.1 4.6 60.7 Actuarial loss gain on assets 20.3 0.7 19.6 70.0 4.0 74.0 Actual company contributions: normal 4.2 5.5 9.7 4.6 5.3 9.9 additional - as agreed under current funding plans 16.8 - 16.8 16.8 - 16.8 additional - other 48.6 - 48.6 - - - Employee contributions 1.4 2.4 3.8 1.5 2.4 3.9 Actual benefit payments 60.0 8.6 68.6 60.2 7.9 68.1 Settlements - 2.1 2.1 - -- Exchange - 12.7 12.7 - 10.6 10.6 Fair value of assets at the end of the year 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 The other additional Company contribution made to UK arrangements during 2010 was in connection with facilitating investment by the IMI Pension Fund in the IMI Scottish Partnership.
g Reconciliation of actual return on assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total m m m m m m Expected return on assets 64.2 5.7 69.9 56.1 4.6 60.7 Actuarial loss gain on assets 20.3 0.7 19.6 70.0 4.0 74.0 Actual return on assets 43.9 6.4 50.3 126.1 8.6 134.7 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 109 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benefits continued h Additional information UK Overseas Total m m m Expected employer contributions to defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2011 normal - 5.9 5.9 additional 16.8 - 16.8 Expected employee contributions to defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2011 - 2.6 2.6 Expected benefits to be paid by the Company for the year ending 31 December 2011 - 6.0 6.0 The IMI Pension Fund closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2010. i Historical information 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Present value of the defined benefit obligation 1,314.3 1,301.2 1,093.7 1,184.1 1,176.6 Fair value of assets 1,116.0 1,044.8 958.2 1,124.0 1,056.0 Deficit 198.3 256.4 135.5 60.1 120.6 Impact of the asset ceiling 1.1 1.1 1.6 3.5 - Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 199.4 257.5 137.1 63.6 120.6 Experience gain loss arising on plan liabilities 12.7 23.1 13.0 0.8 10.3 Experience loss gain arising on plan assets 19.6 74.0 245.6 11.3 20.2 j Sensitivities The balance sheet liability is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used to place a value on the defined benefit obligation, in particular to the discount rate and implied life expectancy, and to changes in the assets, in particular to equity market movements.
The IMI Pension Fund constitutes 83% of the total liabilities and 88% of the total assets for the Groups long-term employee benefit arrangements as at 31 December 2010.
It is therefore appropriate to consider the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions in respect of the Fund and these are illustrated below net defined benefit liability as at 31 December 2010 for the IMI Pension Fund is 106.9m.
1 Increase in net defined benefit liability as at 31 December 2010 m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower 15 Inflation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher 11 Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 25 2 10% fall in non-bond-like assets 60 1 in each case all other assumptions are unchanged.
2 bond-like assets include cash, bonds, insurance annuity policies and IMI Pension Funds interest in a special purpose vehicle.
110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Share-based payments The Group operates the following share-based payment schemes: SAYE savings-related share option scheme This scheme is open to the majority of the Groups UK employees, including the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price.
Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase shares in the business.
SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months of the exercise date and otherwise expire.
Performance Share Plan PSP These are open to the executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group.
For awards granted prior to April 2009, 50% of these PSP shares vest subject to EPS growth, based on internal financial performance conditions.
The plan uses TSR total shareholder return as a performance condition for the other 50% of shares granted.
For awards granted in 2009, 100% of the shares granted vest subject to TSR as the performance condition.
For awards granted in 2010 onwards, 50% of these PSP shares vest subject to EPS growth, based on internal financial performance conditions, 25% vest subject to TSR, and 25% vest subject to RoOCE Return on Operating Capital Employed.
Share Matching Plan SMP In 2009, the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP was amended and renamed, to become the SMP.
Under this plan, executive directors and selected senior managers cash incentive payments are governed by their achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline SOG.
The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary as IMI shares, and if achieved, any incentive payment is made in cash.
If not achieved, a proportion of earned annual bonus will be mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in shares in the Company.
Qualifying employees may also elect to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their annual bonus, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum of 100% of incentive opportunity.
Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned to a maximum of 200% of the investment made if stretching performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period.
Share Option Plan SOP Share Option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and certain other employees under the Share Option Plan, adopted in 2009.
These awards are not subject to performance conditions, but are subject to a three year vesting period.
The following share-based plans are no longer operated, but awards are outstanding under them: Executive Share Option Scheme Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and to certain other employees in 2005 under the Executive Share Option 1995 Scheme which expired in May 2005.
All outstanding options granted under this scheme were granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions related to growth in earnings per share above inflation over a fixed period of three financial years.
Executive share options expire if not exercised or lapsed within the periods shown below.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP awards were made in 2005 as part of the transition to new long term incentive arrangements introduced in 2005.
The LTIP allows cash awards to executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group subject to certain performance conditions.
At the end of the performance period, the net of tax value of any LTIP payments can or in the case of executive directors, must normally be invested in market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares pursuant to a deferred share plan.
Such share purchases are to be made through an employee trust and held for a further three year period.
After that period, matching shares are awarded with one additional share for every four invested with no further performance conditions.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, for executive directors and selected senior managers, a proportion of earned annual bonus was mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in shares in the Company.
Qualifying employees also elected to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their annual bonus.
Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned to a maximum of 100%, or 125% for the Chief Executive, of the deferred bonus at the entry share price level if stretching performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Share-based payments continued Analysis of options granted Currently operated share-based payment schemes Performance Share 1 1 Employee SAYE options Share Plan Matching Plan Share Option Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal Number of Weighted Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable awards awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date thousand option price date 2003 976 201p 2006-2010 - - 2004 801 289p 2007-2009 - - 2005 464 380p 2008-2010 706 2008 2006 251 495p 2009-2011 716 2009 2007 204 517p 2010-2012 734 2010 2008 342 391p 2011-2013 995 2011 2009 832 201p 2012-2014 673 2012 1,783 2012 2,532 441p 2012 2010 190 511p 2013-2015 228 2013 1,145 2013 1,565 645p 2013 Legacy share-based payment schemes Long Term Deferred 1 1 Executive Option Scheme Incentive Plan Bonus Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date 2003 2,258 257p 2006-2013 - - - - 2004 2,199 358p 2007-2014 - - - - 2005 484 421p 2008-2015 53 2008 - - 2006 - - - 44 2009 117 2009 2007 - - - 61 2010 184 2010 2008 - - - 82 2011 183 2011 1.
These options were granted at an option price of nil.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options outstanding are as follows: Options without Options with performance conditions performance conditions Weighted Number of Range of average options option prices option price Number of options Outstanding at 1 January 2009 1,753,800 201-517p 375p 2,834,177 Exercisable at 1 January 2009 935,267 201-517p 352p 17,700 Granted 3,363,078 201-441p 382p 2,456,289 Exercised 324,469 201-495p 313p 507,251 Lapsed 419,881 201-517p 390p 403,567 Outstanding at 31 December 2009 4,372,528 201-517p 383p 4,379,648 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 715,618 201-517p 361p 15,389 Granted 1,754,639 511-645p 631p 1,372,302 Exercised 362,498 201-517p 359p 412,652 Lapsed 417,664 201-517p 411p 538,422 Outstanding at 31 December 2010 5,347,005 201-645p 464p 4,800,876 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 344,142 201-517p 364p 18,905 112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share options previously reported as Employee SAYE options and Executive options have been combined within options without performance conditions.
The options previously reported as Long Term Incentive Plan options, Performance Share Plan options and Deferred Bonus Plan options have been combined within options with performance conditions.
In both cases these schemes have substantially similar arrangements.
Options with performance conditions were granted with an option price of nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2010 is 7.42 years 2009: 7.46 years.
Included in these balances are share options that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002.
These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS2.
The number of these share options outstanding was as follows: 1 January 2009: 258,131 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010: 78,772 31 December 2010: 10,022 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the period was 6.91 2009: 3.94.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The assumptions used for grants in 2010 included a dividend yield of 3.7% 2009: 7.6%, expected share price volatility of 30% 2009: 30%, a weighted average expected life of 3.6 years 2009: 3.7 years and a weighted average interest rate of 2.0% 2009: 4.0%.
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share-based payments is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Equity settled share-based payment expense in employee cost in the income statement 5.5 4.1 The share-based payment expense of 5.5m 2009: 4.1m comprises a charge of 7.7m for the year offset by a credit of 2.2m 2009: 1.7m in respect of lapses.
2.8m 2009: 2.5m of the total charge is in respect of directors.
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 113 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Due inside one year Due outside one year Investigation Trade Investigation Restructuring costs Total warranties costs Other Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 17.9 4.5 22.4 27.6 3.5 13.4 44.5 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 0.7 - 0.7 Acquisitions - - 2.6 0.3 2.9 Utilised during the year 21.9 4.3 26.2 8.6 0.1 8.7 Transfers 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8 Charge to income statement 16.0 16.0 9.8 - 9.8 At 31 December 2010 11.9 2.0 13.9 32.1 1.7 13.6 47.4 The restructuring provision is expected to be fully utilised within one year.
The provision balance reflects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specific projects to reorganise operations and facilities.
CCI is subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement with the US Department of Justice.
Provision has been made for the costs associated with the monitor over the three year monitor appointment period which runs until June 2012.
Related to this same matter CCI continues to liaise with customers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions outside the US and the cost of resolving certain investigation related legal matters has been provided for.
Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically of 1-2 years but can be longer, with the expected amounts falling due less than one year included in creditors.
Other provisions are mainly environmental provisions, recognising the Groups obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites.
Because of the long term nature of the liability, the timescales are uncertain and the provision represents managements best estimates of these costs.
Share capital Number of ordinary shares of 25p each 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Authorised 480.0 480.0 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid: In issue at the start of the year 339.5 338.9 84.9 84.7 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.4 0.6 0.1 0.2 In issue at the end of the year 339.9 339.5 85.0 84.9 Of which held within retained earnings 23.3 20.2 Shares issued and purchased during the year are shown in the table below: Employee Benefit Trust Treasury Other Total mmm m In issue at 31 December 2009 1.1 19.1 319.3 339.5 New issues - - 0.4 0.4 Market purchases 3.6 - 3.6 - Allocations 0.5 - 0.5 - At 31 December 2010 4.2 19.1 316.6 339.9 114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the year 0.4m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising 1.6m.
The Company made market purchases of a total of 3.6m 2009: 0.1m of its own shares with an aggregate market value of 29.5m 2009: 0.3m and a nominal value of 0.9m 2009: nil including dealing costs of 0.2m 2009: nil.
Of the 23.3m 2009: 20.2m shares held within retained earnings, 4.2m 2009: 1.1m shares with an aggregate market value of 39.7m 2009: 5.4m are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting.
Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
2010 2009 m m 17.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2009: 13.2p 53.9 42.1 The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: 2010 2009 m m 13.2p per qualifying ordinary share 2009: 12.7p 42.2 40.5 9.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2009: 8.0p 28.7 25.5 70.9 66.0 Share options The majority of UK employees may participate in the IMI Sharesave Plan SAYE scheme and selected senior executives within the Group participate in the IMI Executive Share Option 1995 Scheme, the IMI Performance Share Plan and the IMI Share Option Plan.
Cash flow notes a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 m m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 122.9 81.0 Bank overdraft in current liabilities 2.5 5.3 Cash and cash equivalents 120.4 75.7 b Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.0 Net drawdown repayment of borrowings 14.2 125.2 Cash inflow 29.6 82.2 Currency translation differences 2.6 44.1 Movement in net borrowings in the year 27.0 126.3 Net borrowings at the start of the year 172.4 298.7 Net borrowings at the end of the year 145.4 172.4 c Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within one after more Total equivalent year than one year net debt m m m m At 1 January 2010 75.7 1.2 246.9 172.4 Cash flow 43.8 12.0 2.2 29.6 Currency translation differences 0.9 - 3.5 2.6 At 31 December 2010 120.4 13.2 252.6 145.4 This includes drawings for settlement of exchange on net investment hedge derivatives of 2.7m 2009: receipts of 4.6m.
Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2010 2009 Land and Land and buildings Others buildings Others m m m m Within one year 16.1 4.9 13.0 5.8 In the second to fifth year 30.7 9.9 35.6 9.5 After five years 26.7 1.5 18.9 0.4 73.5 16.3 67.5 15.7 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group primarily for certain of its office properties.
116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Commitments Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date amounted to 6.1m 2009: 13.9m.
Contingencies Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to 86m 2009: 76m.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Directors are considered to be the key management personnel.
Remuneration is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Short term employee benefits 2.1 3.2 Contributions to executive retirement plan 1.8 0.8 Share-based payment 3.1 2.5 Total 7.0 6.5 Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
There are no other related party transactions.
