Duty and Similar Items Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the characteristics of duty.
In countries where duty is a production tax, duty is included in revenue and in the income statement as an expense.
Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from revenue.
Payments due in the United States under the Master Settlement Agreement and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act are considered to be levies having the characteristics of duty and are treated as a production tax.
Taxes Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns where the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
The Group establishes provisions on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities only where it is considered more likely than not that an amount will be paid or received.
The Group applies this test to each individual uncertain position.
The Group measures the uncertain positions based on the single most likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the tax base.
However, the deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity.
Dividends Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Intangible Assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the seller in return for control of the acquired business together with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised.
Previously all goodwill was written off through equity in the period of acquisition.
As permitted under IFRS 1, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 is stated in accordance with UK GAAP and has not been remeasured on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Gains or losses on the disposal of a Group company are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying value of the Group companys assets and liabilities including the carrying amount of related goodwill.
Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not reclassified to the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary to which it relates.
Intangible Assets Other Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships and computer software.
The Davidoff cigarette trademark and some premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors to have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established international brands with global potential.
Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Other trademarks, supply agreements including customer relationships and computer software are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Other trademarks 20 30 years straight line Supply agreements 3 15 years straight line Computer software 3 5 years straight line 105
