Strategy Performance Governance Financials Accounting Policies continued Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired, less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with them will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 20 years straight line reducing balance Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 14 years straight line The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are included within property, plant and equipment.
They are initially valued at the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
The associated lease liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet and the interest element of the leasing payments is charged to the income statement.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Impairment of Assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested at least annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred, and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents.
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the income statement.
For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised transaction costs.
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair value, which includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant.
However, as the Group has decided as permitted under IAS 39 not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative financial instruments, changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise unless the derivative qualifies and has been designated as a net investment hedging instrument in which case the changes in fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit support annex documents under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA agreements in respect of certain derivatives are net settled and are therefore netted off the carrying value of those derivatives on the balance sheet.
