Strategy Performance Governance Financials Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience, and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the current financial year are discussed below.
Legal Proceedings and Disputes In accordance with IFRS, the Group recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation from a past event, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and the amount of costs of the transfer can be reliably estimated.
In such instances a provision is calculated and recorded in the financial statements.
In instances where these criteria are not met, a contingent liability may be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group: or a present obligation arising from past events that is not recognised in the financial statements because it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
Realisation of any contingent liabilities not currently recognised or disclosed in the financial statements could have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
As required under purchase accounting, claims and contingencies acquired by the Group through the purchase of other businesses are recorded initially at fair value.
Future changes to these estimates of fair value are required to be reflected in the income statement and could have a material effect on the Groups results and financial condition.
Application of these accounting principles to legal proceedings and disputes, including cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-related effects, is inherently difficult, given the complex nature of the facts and law involved.
Deciding whether or not to provide for loss in connection with such claims requires the Groups management to make determinations about various factual and legal matters beyond its control.
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal proceedings at each balance sheet date, in order to assess the need for provisions in its financial statements.
Among the factors considered in making decisions on provisions are the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment: the legal processes and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment has been brought: the progress of the case including progress after the date of the financial statements but before those statements are issued : the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers: experience of similar cases and any decision of the Groups management as to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Groups determinations at any time do not reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any claim, its future financial statements may be materially affected, with an adverse impact upon the Groups operating profit, financial position and liquidity.
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-related effects.
In the opinion of the Groups lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being vigorously contested.
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the revenue, profit or financial condition of the Group.
Consequently, in respect of any such cases, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
In 2003 the Office of Fair Trading OFT commenced an investigation under the Competition Act 1998 into the operation of the UK tobacco supply industry in the period from 2000 to 2003.
In a decision dated 15 April 2010, the OFT concluded that certain of the Groups promotional arrangements with tobacco retailers had the object of restricting competition and imposed a fine of 112.3 million on the Group.
At the same time it confirmed that two other allegations included in its 2008 statement of objections had been dropped.
The Group takes compliance with competition law very seriously and continues to reject any suggestion that it acted in breach of the Competition Act or in any way contrary to the interests of consumers.
On 15 June 2010 the Group submitted an appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal against the OFTs findings of infringement and the level of the fine.
Five tobacco retailers have also submitted appeals against the OFTs decision.
The Competition Appeal Tribunal may uphold, quash or vary the OFTs decision or the fine that has been imposed.
As part of its appeal the Group has asked for the fine to be quashed in its entirety.
Consequently, the Group has not provided for any amount in the consolidated financial statements.
110 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Intangible assets other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on managements estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue, and are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Due to the long lives of certain assets, changes to the estimates used can result in significant variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and significant negative industry or economic trends.
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indefinite lived assets are subject to impairment review.
The Groups management undertakes an impairment review annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
When it is determined that there is an indicator that the carrying value may not be recoverable, impairment is measured based on estimates of the recoverable amount of the underlying assets of the cash-generating unit.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application of the Groups accounting estimates in relation to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect the amounts reported in the financial statements, especially the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and the carrying values of those assets.
If business conditions were different, or if different assumptions were used in the application of this and other accounting estimates, it is likely that materially different amounts could be reported in the Groups financial statements.
See notes 9 and 10 to these financial statements.
Retirement Benefits The costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit retirement schemes operating within the Group are determined using methods relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions.
Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18.
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions.
It is important to note, however, that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent increase decrease in the discount rate would increase decrease the IAS 19 pension expense by approximately 1 million.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent decrease increase in the expected return on plan assets would increase decrease the IAS 19 pension expense by approximately 14 million.
Income Taxes The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in determining the provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises provisions for tax based on estimates of the taxes that are likely to become due.
Where the final tax outcome is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
