Strategy Performance Governance Financials Accounting Policies continued Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential voting rights.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the purchase of subsidiaries.
The excess of the value transferred to the seller in return for control of the acquired business together with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included on pages 157 and 158.
Joint Ventures Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group and third parties jointly control.
The financial statements of joint ventures are consolidated using the proportionate method, with the Groups share of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet classified according to their nature.
In the same way, the Groups share of income and expenses is presented in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function.
If necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of these companies to align their accounting policies with those used by the Group.
Foreign Currency Items included in the financial statements of each Group company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates the functional currency.
The income and cash flow statements of Group companies using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling the Groups presentational currency at average rates of exchange in each period, which are an appropriate approximation of the rates ruling at the dates of transactions in the income and cash flow statements.
Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The differences between retained profits and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any translation differences that have arisen since 1 October 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted by IFRS 1, any differences prior to this date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than a companys functional currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when treated as qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies after deducting permanent intragroup loans.
Gains or losses on these hedges are transferred to other comprehensive income and offset any gains or losses on translation of the net assets.
Revenue Recognition For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, the customer has accepted the products and collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing third party products, are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Licence fees are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
The Logistics business only recognises commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions in which it acts as a commission agent.
Distribution and marketing commissions are included in revenue.
Revenue is recognised on products on consignment when these are sold by the consignee.
