Strategy Performance Governance Financials Directors Remuneration Report continued We continue to set base salary at around the median level of the comparator group of companies, whilst providing Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee with effect from 1 October 2010 the newly formed Operating Executive with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
Our comparator group of companies for the purposes of assessing total compensation remains the FTSE 50, excluding companies in the financial and pharmaceutical sectors, with secondary reference to the FTSE 30, excluding companies in the financial and pharmaceutical sectors.
To ensure our remuneration policy is firmly linked to our strategy and risk management, Executive Directors together with other senior managers are required to build a significant stake in the Company in accordance with our share retention guidelines and through the mandatory deferral of elements of annual bonus in the form of shares.
This link is further supported through the setting of bonus and share plan targets that reflect key business imperatives, for example volume growth, debt reduction and growth in both earnings per share and TSR.
Subject to shareholder consultation, the Remuneration Committee has increased the maximum annual bonus for the financial year ending 30 September 2011 for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to 200 per cent and 150 per cent of base salary respectively from 150 per cent and 135 per cent.
This higher bonus opportunity is at or below the median level for FTSE 50 companies.
The change to annual bonus opportunity is balanced by the following: more demanding performance conditions.
To achieve the maximum bonus, executives will need to achieve outstanding performance across a series of demanding metrics including earnings per share growth, net sales growth, debt reduction and other strategic goals: a mandatory requirement that any portion of annual bonus that exceeds 100 per cent of base salary is delivered in the Companys shares, which must be retained for at least three years and will not be eligible for investment in the SMS: in addition, a new provision whereby the entire bonus will be subject to claw-back in the event of gross misconduct or misstatement of results: and, a more demanding performance requirement and vesting scale relating to the SMS.
The Remuneration Committee did not increase base salaries for two of the three Executive Directors, at the 1 October 2010 review.
The Chief Executives base salary was increased to 800,000 from 750,000 in line with the Remuneration Committees decision to align her salary with its policy and taking account of the Companys size, international profile and thecritical importance of the role of the Chief Executive in driving future performance.
The new base salary of 800,000, which is significantly below that of her predecessor, remains below the market median for FTSE 50 companies and the market median for Chief Executives in the FTSE 100.
4 Directors Service Arrangements Executive Directors Service Agreements The service agreement for Mr R Dyrbus was entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from the Hanson Group.
The provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in his service agreement reflect that.
The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Companys established policy that Executive Directors have service agreements which are terminable on no more than one years notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements, except for those set out in the table below.
The Executive Directors service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
We are unequivocally against rewards for failure.
Apart from the limited respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every case.
Our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments would be paid monthly in arrears.
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS, outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, including death, retirement, redundancy, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control.
Awards vest on a time-related pro rata basis and are subject to satisfaction of relevant performance criteria.
If, however, thetermination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the relevant rules, an individuals full awards lapse.
84 Executive Directors Service Agreements Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks notice No provisions Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to benefits receivable during the notice period Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks notice No provisions Policy in Respect of Remuneration from External Board Appointments We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The Executive Directors who held such appointments during the financial year were Mrs A J Cooper, who serves on the Board of Inchcape PLC and received and retained fees of 40,000, and Mr G Davis, who serves on the Board of Wolseley plc and received and retained fees of 44,063.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors During the year, fees for Non-Executive Directors, and chairmanship fees in respect of the Remuneration and Audit Committees, were reviewed by the Board as a whole.
The review took into account market practice with reference to thecomparator group on page 84 and the various responsibilities of our Non-Executive Directors together with the need toattract and retain individuals with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
The Chairmans remuneration was determined by the Board following recommendation from the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were not permitted to take part in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
With the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company, Non-Executive Directors receive no other material pay or benefits.
They are not eligible to participate in the Groups employee share plans or annual bonus schemes and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
During the year Mr J-D Comolli, however, received pension payments relating to his former executive position within the Altadis Group.
The Company also provided medical insurance for Mr Comolli.
A proportion of our Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees is applied to purchase shares in the Company.
This is topromote alignment of their interests with those of our shareholders and is not at a level that could compromise their judgement or independence.
These shares are held by a nominee during the term of their directorship.
The Companys Articles of Association enable the Board to set the remuneration of Directors within the limits set by shareholders.
The current aggregate limit is 2.0 million and the aggregate amount paid in the financial year was 1.1 million.
Executive Directors are remunerated in respect of their executive appointments, under the terms of their service agreements, and receive no additional fees for serving as directors.
Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
He was also appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Altadis, S. A. upon its acquisition by the Group until 5 November 2008.
Mr S Huismans received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company but the terms of their appointment are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business hours and prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by the Board on 1 February 2010.
Under the terms of our current Articles of Association Non-Executive Directors stand for election at the first AGM following appointment and are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
Aresolution to amend this provision and require all Directors to stand for re-election annually is being proposed at the 2011 AGM.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointments which state that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each Non-Executive Director.
