Any annual bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 85 per cent forthe Group Sales and Marketing Director will be paid in cash and will be eligible for investment in the SMS.
Any bonus payable in excess of these levels will be used to purchase the Companys shares which the Director will be required to retain for a minimum of three years.
These shares are not eligible for investment in the SMS.
The Remuneration Committee further determined that from the financial year ending 30 September 2011 annual bonuses forExecutive Directors and members of the Operating Executive would be subject to claw-back, during the three years following the end of the financial year in which the bonus was earned, in the event of gross misconduct by the employee ormisstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
Share Matching Scheme The Remuneration Committee also reviewed and amended the SMS performance criterion for Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive, from the February 2011 award onwards, such that it will continue to be based on RealAnnual EPS Growth but the revised performance criterion will be on a more demanding sliding scale.
Under the revised performance criterion, no matching shares will vest unless the Groups Real Annual EPS Growth is equal to three per cent, atwhich point one matching share will vest for every two shares invested.
For maximum vesting to occur, the Groups Real Annual EPS Growth must equal, or exceed, six per cent, at which point one matching share will vest for every one share invested.
Between these two points awards will vest on a straight-line basis.
Proposed Share Matching Scheme Vesting Scale EPS Growth Proposed New Scale Previous Scale Below RPI plus 3 per cent per annum Zero Zero At RPI plus 3 per cent per annum 50% 100% 1 At RPI plus 6 per cent per annum 100% 100% 1 Sliding scale applies for performance between RPI plus 3 per cent and RPI plus 6 per cent.
6 Executive Directors Pensions Since 6 April 2006 A day the Groups UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to maintain membership of or, in respect of new employees, join the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund orreceive a salary supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund.
The Executive Directors are all members of the Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
The Fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age, usually after 32years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted.
For death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of twothirds of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependant children will also receive allowances.
Pensions increase annually by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index to a maximum of 15 per cent.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 will accrue pension benefits on a defined contribution basis.
Members who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 2010 will continue to accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined benefit basis, as set out above.
All Executive Directors accrue pension benefits on the defined benefit basis.
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC which abolished most of the detailed limits previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a simplified approach.
Each member now has a Lifetime Allowance LTA, 1.80 million for retirements in the tax year 2010 2011 and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied at retirement if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount.
For any member whose total benefit value on 6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be subject to a large retrospective LTA charge.
To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60.
Other than Mrs A J Cooper, each of the current Executive Directors has opted out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC.
The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible, in some rare circumstances, for the full final salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 tobe paid from the Fund.
In this event an additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS so that the full accrued benefit may be provided.
Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary.
Mrs A J Cooper is also in receipt of a salary supplement.
Prior to 6 April 2006 her pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1 60ths with a 50 per cent spouses pension and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable.
