Restructuring Costs Significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
These costs include the impairment of property, plant and equipment which are surplus to requirements due to restructuring activity.
Post-Employment Benefits Net Financing Cost The expected return on plan assets and the interest on retirement benefit liabilities, together with the unwind of discount on redundancy and social plans costs included in restructuring provisions, are reported within net finance costs.
These items together with their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management Net Revenue Net revenue comprises the Tobacco business revenue less duty and similar items.
Management considers this an important measure in assessing the profitability of Tobacco operations.
Distribution Fees Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue excluding the cost of distributed products.
Management considers this an important measure in assessing the profitability of Logistics operations.
Adjusted Net Debt Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of derivative financial instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges and finance lease liabilities.
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations The following standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 32 and IAS 1 amendment Puttable Financial Instruments IAS 39 amendments Reclassification of Financial Assets and Eligible Hedged Items IAS 39 IFRIC 9 amendment Embedded Derivatives IFRS 1 and IAS 27 amendment Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 2 amendment Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IFRS 7 amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners Application of these standards and interpretations has not had a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
The following standards and interpretations were issued but application was not mandatory for the period: IFRS 2 amendment Group Cash-Settled Share-Based Payments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have no material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
