Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control framework Matters reserved for the Board and Committees Terms of Reference Risk Co-ordination Organisational Commercial Year end Internal control Disclosure Committee risk Group Finance structure Integrity certification questionnaires Committee assessment summaries Group Compliance are met.
The Board is satisfied that these responsibilities B. Remuneration aremet by using the financial systems and applying the regulations described below, supported by our system 1 The level and make-up of remuneration: What is ofinternal control.
our approach to remuneration and how do we link it toperformance?
This was achieved by: We ensure that our remuneration policy drives our using an appropriate system of accounting records, employees to enhance our performance by focusing capable of operating with reasonable accuracy and in remuneration towards long-term performance and providing compliance with local and international financial and legal employees with the opportunity to participate in our bonus reporting requirements.
The basis used to prepare our arrangements and share plans.
Our overall policy is to Group financial statements is the International Financial provide remuneration at the median level of our comparator Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European group and provide executives with the opportunity to earn Union.
Our parent company financial statements and upper quartile total compensation on achievement of ourDirectors Remuneration Report are prepared in superior business performance.
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles: Our Remuneration Report, on pages 78 to 95, approved byour Remuneration Committee and Board, outlines our using IFRS to ensure a true and fair view of the state of remuneration strategy and policy and its links to our key affairs of the Group is given, including our profit or loss performance indicators.
The Report details the Committees forthe period: activities over the financial year and contains full details of deploying appropriate accounting policies within Directors emoluments.
theframework of IFRS and ensuring these are We evaluated the performance of the Committee as part of consistentlyapplied: the Board performance evaluation process described above.
making judgements and preparing estimates that are 2 Procedure: What is our formal procedure for reasonable and prudent: developing policy on executive remuneration?
operating within the guidelines of all the disclosure Our Remuneration Committee, which solely comprises adviceprovided by UK and international statute: independent Non-Executive Directors, operates under clear disclosing the business is a going concern: terms of reference and is responsible for developing policy on executive remuneration and overseeing our overall remuneration maintaining robust assurance processes and controls policy.
Full details of our procedure for developing remuneration overour financial reporting procedures, including suitable policy and its links to strategy and risk management are given in Disclosure Committee and Board reviews: and our Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 95. extending these principles to half yearly reports and other reports in the public domain.
C. Accountability and audit 2 Internal control: What does our Board do to maintain a sound system of internal control?
1 Financial reporting: How do we ensure we presenta clear and balanced assessment of the Overview Companys position?
Several ongoing activities, which satisfy the requirements ofthe Code, reassure our Board that a sound and robust Our Board members recognise their responsibilities to system of internal control exists throughout our Group.
ensure that the statutory requirements to deliver balanced and understandable assessments of the Companys position 66
