Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Segment Information Imperial Tobacco comprises two distinct businesses Tobacco and Logistics.
In addition to regularly reviewing results and plans for the Tobacco and Logistics businesses, the Chief Executives Committee which is the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of IFRS 8 regularly reviewed during the year the performance and plans of the Tobacco business analysed on a geographic basis, reflecting the importance of certain individual markets and geographic groupings.
The segments presented below are therefore the Groups six Tobacco regions and the Logistics business.
The information provided to the Chief Executives Committee is used as the basis of the segment revenue and profit disclosures provided below, with the geographic analysis of Tobacco based on the location of customers, and central Group costs allocated consistently based on managements assessment of the level of support provided.
The main measure of profit used by the Chief Executives Committee to assess performance is adjusted operating profit.
Segment balance sheet information is not routinely provided to the Chief Executives Committee.
The Tobacco business comprises the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products, including sales to but not by the Logistics business.
The Logistics business comprises the distribution of tobacco products for tobacco product manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as well as a wide range of non-tobacco products and services.
The Logistics business is run on an operationally neutral basis ensuring all customers are treated equally, and consequently transactions between the Tobacco and Logistics businesses are undertaken on an arms length basis reflecting market prices for comparable goods and services.
For the purposes of the analysis below, European Union comprises the EU member states plus Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland.
The Cuban joint ventures are included in the Rest of the World.
All of the Logistics business is located in the European Union.
