Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control framework Matters reserved for the Board and Committees Terms of Reference Risk Co-ordination Organisational Commercial Year end Internal control Disclosure Committee risk Group Finance structure Integrity certification questionnaires Committee assessment summaries Group Compliance are met.
The Board is satisfied that these responsibilities B. Remuneration aremet by using the financial systems and applying the regulations described below, supported by our system 1 The level and make-up of remuneration: What is ofinternal control.
our approach to remuneration and how do we link it toperformance?
This was achieved by: We ensure that our remuneration policy drives our using an appropriate system of accounting records, employees to enhance our performance by focusing capable of operating with reasonable accuracy and in remuneration towards long-term performance and providing compliance with local and international financial and legal employees with the opportunity to participate in our bonus reporting requirements.
The basis used to prepare our arrangements and share plans.
Our overall policy is to Group financial statements is the International Financial provide remuneration at the median level of our comparator Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European group and provide executives with the opportunity to earn Union.
Our parent company financial statements and upper quartile total compensation on achievement of ourDirectors Remuneration Report are prepared in superior business performance.
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles: Our Remuneration Report, on pages 78 to 95, approved byour Remuneration Committee and Board, outlines our using IFRS to ensure a true and fair view of the state of remuneration strategy and policy and its links to our key affairs of the Group is given, including our profit or loss performance indicators.
The Report details the Committees forthe period: activities over the financial year and contains full details of deploying appropriate accounting policies within Directors emoluments.
theframework of IFRS and ensuring these are We evaluated the performance of the Committee as part of consistentlyapplied: the Board performance evaluation process described above.
making judgements and preparing estimates that are 2 Procedure: What is our formal procedure for reasonable and prudent: developing policy on executive remuneration?
operating within the guidelines of all the disclosure Our Remuneration Committee, which solely comprises adviceprovided by UK and international statute: independent Non-Executive Directors, operates under clear disclosing the business is a going concern: terms of reference and is responsible for developing policy on executive remuneration and overseeing our overall remuneration maintaining robust assurance processes and controls policy.
Full details of our procedure for developing remuneration overour financial reporting procedures, including suitable policy and its links to strategy and risk management are given in Disclosure Committee and Board reviews: and our Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 95. extending these principles to half yearly reports and other reports in the public domain.
C. Accountability and audit 2 Internal control: What does our Board do to maintain a sound system of internal control?
1 Financial reporting: How do we ensure we presenta clear and balanced assessment of the Overview Companys position?
Several ongoing activities, which satisfy the requirements ofthe Code, reassure our Board that a sound and robust Our Board members recognise their responsibilities to system of internal control exists throughout our Group.
ensure that the statutory requirements to deliver balanced and understandable assessments of the Companys position 66 Taking each in turn: The Board recognises that we operate in an environment with some unavoidable risks see pages 25 to 27 and Terms of Reference ensures these risks are properly understood and suitably The Board, which operates within clearly defined terms of managed, either directly or by exercising oversight of the reference, reserves certain matters for its own consideration internal control framework detailed below.
The analysis of and decision.
It has established appropriate committees, risk and oversight of the resulting internal control measures which also operate within clearly defined terms of reference, taken to mitigate the effects of such risks are essential to oversee our control activities.
These committees include inenabling the Board to discharge its responsibilities to an Audit Committee, Disclosure Committee and Risk safeguard shareholders investments, protect our assets Co-ordination Committee.
Our Board and Committee andprovide reliable financial information.
Given the size processes, together with those embedded in the business, andcomplexity of the Group such systems can, however, are fundamental to the effectiveness of our internal control provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of measures and the delivery of the appropriate degree meeting our internal control objectives, as they manage of control.
They can, therefore, only provide Organisational Structure reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Board regularly reviews the Groups organisational misstatement or loss.
structure to seek to ensure that clearly defined lines of Control Environment responsibility with appropriate delegation of authority and The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the segregation of duties exist, with personnel of the necessary Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing its calibre in place to fulfil their roles.
The aim of such delegated effectiveness and has established a robust control authority is that decisions, significant because of either their environment, thekey features of which are outlined in the value or impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at above chart and detailed below: anappropriate level as defined within the Boards terms the terms of reference of the Board, including the matters ofreference and our Corporate Documents.
on which only the Board can decide, and each of the The Board regularly reviews the Groups Treasury, Tax and committees it has established see page 67 : Occupational, Health, Safety and Environmental policies.
establishing an appropriate organisational structure with TheGroups Treasury function operates within a well defined clear, appropriate and documented delegation of authority policy and framework designed to manage the Groups from the Board to the Chief Executives Committee from financing and liquidity arrangements and to manage its 1 October 2010 the Operating Executive and executive exposure to, amongst other treasury risks, interest rate and management, including the Groups Treasury function see foreign exchange risks.
In addition, the Group operates well page 67 : defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure, including acquisitions.
bringing together our anti-illicit trade strategies, the protection of our brands and the management and roll-out Commercial Integrity of our Code of Conduct into a single Commercial Integrity Supporting the sustainable growth of our business by Department see page 67 : enhancing our anti-illicit trade activities, together with further embedding high standards of conduct across the Group, is the Risk Co-ordination Committee and Risk Assessment critical to our future success.
Summaries which detail the risks and risk mitigation identified by each area of the business see page 68 : During the year we brought together into a single Commercial Integrity Department those activities with our year end certification processes see page 68 : responsibility for reviewing and managing the enhancement Internal Control Questionnaires detailing the existing by the business of our anti-illicit trade strategies, the control processes within each area of the business protection of our brands and the driving of good corporate seepage 68 : and individual conduct across the Group.
Group Finance which sets financial policies and standards Together with the Group Company Secretariat, our and manages our financial reporting processes see page 68 : Commercial Integrity Department supports our framework ofpolicies and procedures, with which all employees are the Disclosure Committee which reviews all our major expected to comply.
These policies and procedures financial disclosures see page 69 : coverkey issues such as acceptable business practices, Group Compliance which monitors and reviews ethical compliance matters and legislation, physical and ourinternal controls see page 69 : and datasecurity as well as regulatory, governance and health, safetyand environmental issues.
remuneration linked to long-term performance to discourage excessive risk taking.
By the end of December 2010 the updated Code of Conduct, which sets out the standards of responsible behaviour that all our employees are expected to follow, will have been rolled-out to our senior management population in a series of face-to-face workshops and cascade to the wider organisation commenced.
Initially available in eight languages, the Code of Conduct is published on our website www.
67 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued It is anticipated that the roll-out of our Code of Conduct the identification and assessment of existing measures in training, to the wider employee base, will be completed place to manage and mitigate risks: and during 2011.
We are also embedding an e-learning system focusing and, where relevant, enhancing risk management to further support this training.
Our Code of Conduct forms a and mitigation activities, processes and procedures across key part of our preparations for ensuring compliance with the the Group.
How the Risk Co-ordination Committee Met its Our public interest disclosure whistleblowing policy Responsibilities During the Year encourages employees to raise concerns about something During the course of the year the RCC has continued to seriously wrong or dangerous on a confidential basis, such develop our risk register by identifying, assessing and that proportionate and independent investigation of such monitoring the key risks we face and how such risks are matters can be undertaken.
We thoroughly investigate all allegations of misconduct and This top down approach is complemented by a bottom up irregularity and consider the implications for our control approach requiring individual markets, factories, regions environment.
We are in the process of investigating certain and functions across the Group to produce annual risk allegations which include fraud within one of our markets.
assessment summaries which are compared to the Group Based on our investigations to date, we do not currently risk register.
These rolling risk assessment summaries believe that these matters have a material impact on our identify major areas of business risk including any specific control environment or will give rise to any material liability local risks and demonstrate how these are mitigated and tothe Group.
managed by controls embedded in business processes.
Risk Co-ordination Committee and Year End Certification Risk Assessment Summaries Our year end certification process requires each of our business entities to confirm compliance with our policies and fraud prevention processes, and that risk mitigation controls Risk Co-ordination Committee have operated effectively throughout the year.
All our senior managers are also required to certify that there have been no related party transactions within their areas of control.
Internal Control Questionnaires Each of our business entities is required to maintain a suite of internal control questionnaires ICQs based on templates produced by Group Compliance.
Management within each business entity is required to continually update the ICQs detailing the internal control processes in operation within that entity.
Matthew Phillips Chairman These ICQs form the basis of periodic reviews by Group Compliance who ensure that appropriate controls are Members operating in practice and provide adequate protection for General Counsel & Company Commercial Director, thebusiness.
Secretary from 1 October 2010 Group Sales andMarketing Corporate and Legal Affairs Director Commercial Director, Supply Chain Chairman Group Finance FinanceDirector, Cigar Business Unit Director, Commercial Integrity Our Group Finance Department sets financial policies and Head of Group Security and Head of Group Compliance RiskManagement standards.
It also manages our financial reporting processes Senior Corporate Counsel Human Resources Director, to ensure the information which enables our Board to Director of Accounting, Salesand Marketing discharge its responsibilities, including the production of Forecasting & Tax Senior Commercial Counsel General Manager, Product acts as Secretary to the Committee ourHalf Year and Annual Accounts, is provided on a timely Development and Purchasing basis.
It is supported by a network of finance managers throughout the Group who have the responsibility and Overview accountability to provide information in keeping with our To supplement our existing risk management processes, the policies, procedures and internal best practices as Group has established a Risk Co-ordination Committee RCC.
documented in our Group Finance Manual.
The RCC assists the Chief Executives Committee from Monitoring of our financial position is based on our strategic 1October 2010 the Operating Executive and the Audit and operational plans the Plans which we use to identify Committee in overseeing the management of material risk specific targets and objectives.
The RCC comprises senior managers representing a cross section of the Groups functions.
Throughout the year we produce latest estimates to predict the likely year end position.
The latest estimates are Responsibilities compared with the Plans and enable us to monitor and The responsibilities of the RCC include: check our performance and, where appropriate, challenge establishing a consistent methodology for identifying, sections of the business if actual or anticipated performance assessing and ranking material risks: varies from the Plans.
68 Assurance process for financial reporting Verification Review Evaluation Disclosure External Significant verification Disclosure Committee Report on evaluation CEO and FD evaluate Reports work performed reviews Group toCEO, FD and material issues financial disclosures AuditCommittee for disclosure Group Compliance Disclosure Committee Our Group Compliance function monitors and measures themitigation of risks across the Group, in addition to Matthew Phillips performing its internal audit role.
During the course of each Chairman year it undertakes both targeted scheduled and ad hoc Members reviews throughout our businesses.
The reviews are based General Counsel & Company Senior Corporate Counsel on our ICQs.
Each review results in a report to local Secretary from 1 October 2010 Group Director of Accounting, Corporate and Legal Affairs Director management of the business entity identifying any potential Forecasting & Tax Chairman Head of Corporate Communications control weaknesses which the business entity is responsible Head of Group Compliance Deputy Company Secretary Co-ordinator for remediating.
The most significant potential weaknesses Acts as Secretary to the Committee Director, Commercial Integrity are also elevated to the Chief Executives Committee from 1October 2010 the Operating Executive to monitor the Overview remediation proposed and subsequently undertaken by The Disclosure Committee comprises senior management management of the business entity.
At the year end Group from across our business and meets, as required, in order Compliance also conducts a review of risk assessments toconsider major financial disclosures.
submitted by all markets, factories, regions and functions across the Group and obtains certificates of confirmation Responsibilities from local management teams that appropriate internal The responsibilities of the Committee include: controls and processes have been operating within their ensuring appropriate procedures exist to confirm the businesses throughout the year.
accuracy, completeness and timeliness of our public Group Compliance is influenced by the methodologies and financial disclosures:and characteristics of the COSO guidelines.
Practices based assisting our Chief Executive and Finance Director Senior onthese guidelines were established under the requirements Officers in determining that all major financial disclosures forSarbanes-Oxley Act compliance and, subsequent to our are accurate, complete and contain all necessary fide-registration in the USA, the most value added elements disclosures and, therefore, provide a fair and accurate have, wherever appropriate, been retained within the business.
To support the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing How the Disclosure Committee Met its Responsibilities the effectiveness of internal controls, Group Compliance During the Year formally reports to the Audit Committee on the outcome The Disclosure Committee reviewed all major financial of its ongoing activities, including its programme of disclosures including Trading Updates, Interim Management compliance reviews and any more general business reviews.
Statements, Half Year Report, Annual Report and Accounts This process ensures that the Audit Committee remains and appropriate corporate financing documentation.
satisfied that the Groups exposure to major business risks is minimised and the levels of retained risk are acceptable.
To meet its responsibilities when reviewing these major Group Compliance has a programme of reviews covering financial disclosures the Committee members made all our business entities on an annual, three or five yearly enquiries into all aspects of the business which, together cycle dependent on materiality and perceived risk.
with their own business knowledge, ensured disclosures were complete with no material issues omitted.
The The above processes, together with reports from Group Committee reported on its reviews to our Senior Officers Compliance, enable the Board, either directly or through and, where appropriate, our Audit Committee.
the Audit Committee, to regularly review the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established in order The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee to provide appropriate internal controls.
werereviewed during the year to ensure they continued tobe appropriate.
69 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, appointment of Auditors and monitoring their performance evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has and independence: and operated throughout the year and up to the date of the overseeing our public interest disclosure policy.
approval of this Annual Report and Accounts in accordance Structure with the requirements of the Code and Turnbull guidance.
The Audit Committee comprises four Independent NonMeasures are also being undertaken to review the contents Executive Directors.
In line with the Code and our Audit of, and the Groups compliance with, the new UK Corporate Committees terms of reference, available on our website Governance Code which replaces the Combined Code www.
com, it is a requirement that at least during our 2011 financial year.
one Committee member is a financial expert.
Mr M D 3 Audit Committee and Auditors: How do we Williamson is a qualified accountant and, therefore, meets formally apply financial reporting and internal this requirement.
The Finance Director, the Director of Accounting, Forecasting & Tax, the Head of Group Compliance, the Deputy Company Audit Committee Secretary and other financial managers are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee.
The Head of Group Compliance meets formally with the Committee, without any Executive Director or other manager being present, at each Committee meeting.
To provide a direct line of communication between our Auditors and Non-Executive Directors, our Auditors attend each Committee meeting and have the opportunity to meet Committee members without any Executive Director or other Mark Williamson manager present.
Chairman The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of Members the Board performance evaluation process.
Mr M D Williamson, CA SA Ms S E Murray How the Audit Committee Met its Responsibilities During Chairman Mr M R Phillips General Counsel Mr M H C Herlihy & Company Secretary from 1 October theYear 2010 Group Corporate and Legal Dr P H Jungels During the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Affairs Director, acts as Secretary to Mr C F Knott, FCMA to 17 July 2010 the Committee Report and Accounts, our Audit Committee achieved its responsibilities by working with a structured agenda of Overview matters focused to coincide with key events of our financial The Audit Committee oversees our financial reporting and reporting cycle, together with standing items that the internal controls and provides a formal reporting link with Committee is required to consider at each meeting.
Audit Committee met its responsibilities by: Responsibilities approving our accounting policies: The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of our financial approval of accounting policies: statements and any announcements or judgements they contain including our Half Year Report and Annual Report reviewing financial statements and announcements: and Accounts and recommending that these be approved by our Board: overseeing the Groups internal control processes: In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of our Auditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor Independence Policy.
Mark Williamson Audit Committee Chairman 70 These reviews provided the Committee with the confidence receiving reports from, and questioning, members of to recommend to the Board that the Group and Company Group Compliance, Group Finance and other functions.
have adequate resources to meet their operational needs This provides the Committee with the information required forthe foreseeable future.
For this reason the Board to oversee our systems of internal control for financial continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing reporting, internal control policies, corporate governance thefinancial statements.
procedures, the system of risk management and to assess the review and mitigation of associated risks: Auditor Independence Policy reviewing the Auditors presentation of their proposed audit In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of plan, fee proposal and confirmation of their independence.
ourAuditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor This, together with managements assessment of the Independence Policy.
This policy provides clear definitions Auditors effectiveness and independence, allows the ofservices that our Auditors can and cannot provide.
Our Committee to establish the scope, effectiveness, Auditors may only provide non-audit services where those independence and objectivity of our Auditors and, if services do not conflict with their independence, for example appropriate, recommend their re-appointment to the Board: tax compliance work.
The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including the tendering for non-audit receiving and, after due consideration, approving Group services expected to generate fees in excess of 100,000, Compliances proposed work plan and compliance and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable programme for the year.
Reports from Group Compliance non-audit work that they may perform.
Our policy also are then used to monitor the performance and effectiveness establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or of controls operating throughout the business: former employees of our Auditors and for the recruitment overseeing our public interest disclosure whistleblowing ofour employees by the Auditors.
Details of the audit and policy by receiving reports of its distribution through our non-audit fees paid to the Auditors are shown on page 114. non-financial reporting system and receiving reports in To ensure compliance with this policy our Audit Committee respect of all disclosures made via the policy: carried out two reviews during the year of the remuneration consideration of managements report that there were no received by our Auditors for audit services, audit-related material related party matters: and services and non-audit work.
These reviews ensure a balance of objectivity, value for money and compliance with this consideration of the accounting treatment relating to policy.
The outcome of these reviews was that performance ongoing enquiries detailed on pages 76 and 77. of the relevant non-audit work by our Auditors was the most Going Concern cost-effective way of conducting our business and that no In order to satisfy themselves that we have adequate conflicts of interest existed between such audit and non-audit resources for the future, the Committee and subsequently work.
The fees for such non-audit work within the financial the Board reviewed the Groups committed funding and year were principally related to tax advisory work.
liquidity positions, its ability to generate cash from trading These reviews enabled the Audit Committee to confirm that activities and its ability to raise external funding in the future.
we continue to receive an efficient, effective and independent Our performance, as described in the Financial Review on audit service.
pages 28 to 31, and our future plans and the risks we face, as described on pages 25 to 27, were also reviewed.
Proactively Engaging with Shareholders In September 2010 we held an investor day attended by Our Auditor Independence Policy is published over 60 investors, potential investors and analysts at which on ourwebsite, www.
com they had the opportunity to meet members of the Board and senior management.
The central theme of the day was our strategy to deliver sustainable shareholder returns through our sales led agenda.
Case studies were provided illustrating the success of our strategy in various markets.
Topics discussed included the opportunities provided by our geographic footprint, brands and our total tobacco approach, together with innovation and trade marketing.
