Strategy Performance Governance Financials Directors Report: Other Information continued On 24 April 2008, the OFT issued a Statement of Objections contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to SO which set out the OFTs allegations against Imperial the operations, performance and financial condition of the Tobacco Group, Gallaher, and a number of retailers.
These Company and the Group as a whole.
By their nature, these alleged infringements relate to the period prior to 2004. statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially On 15 April 2010, the OFT reached a Decision.
Although from those anticipated and no reliance should be placed on theOFT dropped a number of the allegations made in the them.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and SO, itfound that Imperial Tobacco Group and Gallaher had information available at the date of preparation of this Annual separately engaged in unlawful practices with ten tobacco Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no retailers in breach of Chapter I of the Competition Act 1998. obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
The OFT imposed total fines of 225m on the parties involved, Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be including a fine of 112.3m on Imperial Tobacco Group.
Under the Competition Act 1998, parties have the right to The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are appeal OFT decisions to the Competition Appeal Tribunal shown on pages 157 and 158.
CAT, and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal.
The CAT has jurisdiction to conduct a full rehearing Insurance of the facts and has the power to uphold, vary or quash the We have purchased and, throughout the year, maintained appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Decision and the fine imposed.
The Company has also entered into Imperial Tobacco Group does not accept the findings in the qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit OFTs Decision.
Accordingly, Imperial Tobacco Group of all its Directors, in a form and scope which comply with submitted an appeal to the CAT on 15 June 2010 against the requirements of the Act.
These indemnities were in force the OFTs findings of infringement and the level of the fine.
throughout the year and up to the date of this Report.
Five retailers Asda, the Co-operative Group, Morrisons Update on Ongoing Enquiries together with Safeway and Shell have also appealed German Investigations against the Decision and the fines imposed on them by Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities theOFT.
inJanuary 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related The CAT is in the process of establishing the timetable for violations by a number of people, including Reemtsma these appeals, although it is unlikely that the CAT will deliver employees, during a period prior to its acquisition by judgment on liability before the fourth quarter of 2011, while ImperialTobacco Group in May 2002.
A Board Committee any subsequent appeal to the Court of Appeal that may be established in 2003 remains in place to monitor the progress necessary is unlikely to be determined before the third of the investigations and the Groups responses on behalf quarter of 2012. ofthe Board.
Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation Between 2005 and 2007, the investigations against all but We are not facing any tobacco-related litigation in the UK.
five of the individuals were terminated, either for lack of Inthe Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related evidence or on terms agreed by the individuals with the claims has fallen from 307 in 1997, to 11.
Settlement was made at no cost to the Imperial claims are subject to dismissal motions.
The other claim is Tobacco Group of any duty payable as a result of certain of inactive.
The dismissal motion in respect of one claimant the activities being investigated.
was heard by the Dublin High Court in 2006.
In April 2007, In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were the court ruled that this claim should be dismissed.
This brought in connection with one of the investigations against decision has been appealed and the dismissal motions 18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma inrespect of the nine other active claims have been employee.
In October 2008, the German court agreed to stayedpending the appeal.
No date has been set for open trial in relation to these charges, but no hearing has theappeal hearing.
Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we are In November 2006, in connection with a separate currently facing a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative investigation, charges relating to violations of the German Court on behalf of the Regional Government of Andalucia for foreign trade act were brought against four other former reimbursement of hospitalisation expenses allegedly incurred Reemtsma employees.
In March 2010, in accordance with in treating smokers.
The claim was served on Altadis in July an agreement with the authorities, the individuals pleaded 2009 and preliminary objections were filed by Altadis and the guilty and financial penalties were ordered against them other tobacco company defendants in September 2009.
These were paid at no cost to the Imperial proceedings are stayed until the Administrative Court rules Tobacco Group.
Office of Fair Trading We are not facing any claims in France.
Following our As previously reported, in October 2003 the UK Office of acquisition of Logista in May 2008, we are currently facing FairTrading OFT commenced an investigation under the two claims in Italy.
One is at an initial stage and the other has Competition Act 1998 into the operation of the UK tobacco been dismissed but appealed.
