21 Share Schemes The Group recognised total expenses of 28 million 2009: 21 million related to share-based payment transactions during the year note 4.
The Group operates a number of share-based employee benefit plans.
International Sharesave Plan Under the International Sharesave Plan the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company to employees who enter into a savings contract.
The price at which options may be offered varies depending on local laws, butwill not be less than 80 per cent of the mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation.
The options may normally be exercised during the six months after expiry ofthe savings contract, three years after entering the Plan.
The majority of awards under the International Sharesave Plan areequity-settled.
Under the UK Sharesave Plan, which is part of the International Sharesave Plan, the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company to UK employees who enter into an HM Revenue and Customs approved Save as You Earn SAYE savings contract.
The options may normally be exercised during the six months after the expiry of the SAYE contract, either three or five years after entering the UK Sharesave Plan.
The UK Sharesave Plan is equity-settled.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Each year since demerger in 1996, annual conditional awards specified as a percentage of base salary have been made under the LTIP to Executive Directors and senior executives.
The conditional awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject to the satisfaction of specified performance criteria, measured over a three year performance period.
All conditional awards are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, with no employee having the right to receive such a conditional award.
Further information relating to the performance criteria and the terms of the LTIP are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In respect of the November 2006 November 2009 award, 94.2 per cent of the award vested on 1 November 2009, comprising 100 per cent of the EPS related element, 100 per cent of the TSR related element linked to the FTSE 100 ranking, and 76.7 per cent of the TSR element linked to the tobacco and alcohol companies comparator group.
In respect of the October 2007 October 2010 award, 68.6 per cent of the award vested on 31 October 2010, comprising 100 per cent of the EPS related element, 74.5 per cent of the TSR related element linked to the FTSE 100 ranking, and nil per cent of the TSR element linked to the tobacco and alcohol companies comparator group.
The majority of the awards under the LTIP are equity-settled.
Share Matching Scheme The Share Matching Scheme is designed to encourage eligible employees to acquire and retain Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares.
The majority of the awards under the Share Matching Scheme are equity-settled.
Executive Directors and most of the Groups management may elect to invest any proportion of their gross bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares to be held by the Employee Benefit Trusts.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2010 eligibility was capped at 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 85 per cent for the Group Sales and Marketing Director 2009: eligibility was capped at 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for the other Executive Directors.
Provided the shares are left in the Trusts for three years, and the individual remains in employment within the Group, the participant will retain the original shares and receive additional shares on a 1:1 ratio.
The matching of the Executive Directors shares is subject to a performance criterion as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the Trusts have been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of Sharesave and LTIP options and on the vesting of the Share Matching Scheme.
At 30 September 2010, the Trusts held 3.8 million 2009: 3.5 million ordinary shares with a nominal value of 375,957.
These are accounted for on a first in first out basis, and comprise 2.2 million treasury shares gifted to the Trusts by the Group, of which 1.9 million were gifted in financial year 2010 2009: 0.2 million, and 1.6 million shares 2009: 3.3 million acquired in the open market at a cost of 33.1 million 2009: 64.3 million.
The acquisition of shares by the Trusts has been financed by a gift of 19.2 million and an interest free loan of 164.9 million.
None of the Trusts shares has been allocated to employees or Executive Directors as at 30 September 2010.
All finance costs and administration expenses connected with the Trusts are charged to the income statement as they accrue.
The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends and the shares held by the Trusts are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share.
Cash-settled plan liabilities As noted above certain awards are cash-settled.
The total liability recognised in the balance sheet as at 30 September 2010 in respect of cash-settled awards was 0.9 million 2009: 0.6 million.
Contractual lives are stated in months.
2 Prices are in pounds unless stated otherwise.
The exercise price of options awards is fixed over the life of each option award, except that following the rights issue in 2008 adjustments were made to the share plans outstanding at that time.
In respect of the Share Matching Scheme, the Trustees sold sufficient rights nil paid to enable the balance of the rights to be taken up.
In the case of the Sharesave and LTIP plans the number of shares under option or subject to awards was adjusted by the relevant bonus factor.
In the case of the Sharesave Scheme the option price was also adjusted by the relevant bonus factor.
3 US sharesave schemes up to and including 2008 options were granted as American Depositary Shares, each representing two ordinary shares and denominated in US dollars.
Subsequent US sharesave scheme options were granted as ordinary shares and included in the international sharesave figures.
