Strategy Performance Governance Financials Accounting Policies continued Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to owners of the parent until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Use of Adjusted Measures Management believes that reporting non-GAAP or adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reflects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of operating profit, net finance costs, profit before tax, taxation, attributable earnings and earnings per share exclude, where applicable, acquisition accounting adjustments, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, post-employment benefits net financing cost, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges and related taxation effects.
Reconciliations between adjusted and reported operating profit are included within note 1 to the financial statements, adjusted and reported net finance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 8.
The adjusted measures in this report are not defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are one-off in nature or which arose due to acquisitions and are not influenced by the day to day operations of the Group, and the movements in the fair value of financial instruments which are marked to market and not naturally offset.
Adjusted net finance costs also exclude all interest on items not included within adjusted net debt.
This allows comparison of the Groups cost of debt with adjusted net debt.
The adjusted measures are used by management to assess the Groups financial performance and aid comparability of results year on year.
The principal adjustments made to reported profits are as follows: Acquisition Accounting Adjustments Acquisition accounting adjustments eliminate costs charged to the income statement as a consequence of investigations into alleged foreign trading violations in the period prior to our acquisition of Reemtsma which are recoverable from the sellers.
IFRS 3 requires that adjustments to the cost of an acquisition are taken to goodwill, whereas changes in measurement of assets and liabilities after the provisional fair value period are taken to the income statement.
These items are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures since the costs do not relate to the current trading performance of the Group and the amounts are recoverable from the sellers.
Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives where these are considered to be finite.
Acquired intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised.
We exclude from our adjusted measures the amortisation of acquired intangibles, other than software, and the deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired intangibles and tax deductible goodwill.
The deferred tax liability is excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal of the intangibles and goodwill.
The related current cash tax benefit is retained in the adjusted measure to reflect the ongoing tax benefit to the Group.
Impairment of goodwill is also excluded from our adjusted measures.
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value being recognised in the income statement unless the instrument satisfies the hedge accounting rules under IFRS and the Group chooses to designate the derivative financial instrument as a hedge.
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner.
However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting.
As a result, and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative financial instruments.
However, the Group does apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Groups foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise income statement volatility.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments providing commercial hedges from adjusted net finance costs.
Fair value gains and losses on the interest element of derivative financial instruments are excluded as they will reverse over time or are matched in future periods by interest charges.
Fair value gains and losses on the currency element of derivative financial instruments are excluded as the relevant foreign exchange gains and losses on the commercially hedged item are accumulated as a separate component of other comprehensive income in accordance with the Groups policy on foreign currency.
