Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued the formal business of the meeting.
Together the Chairman, Statement of Auditors Responsibilities Chief Executive, Finance Director and Director of Investor Our statutory Auditors,  LLP PwC, Communications ensured the Board was fully briefed on are responsible for forming an independent opinion on the shareholders views such that any issues or concerns were financial statements of the Group and on the financial fully understood and considered by the Board.
We regularly statements of the Company as presented by the Directors, met both with shareholder representative bodies on on other elements of the Annual Report and Accounts as significantissues of interest and with corporate governance required by legislation or regulation and for reporting their representatives of investors when requested.
Through an opinion to members page 97. external consultancy we undertook our annualperception PwC have been the Companys Auditors since its demerger study of institutional investors views ofour business.
The Audit Committee, following a review during the year, remains satisfied with the effectiveness and 2 Constructive use of the AGM: Howdoesthe Board independence of PwC.
It has not, therefore, considered effectively use the AGM to engage with investors?
it necessary to require the audit to be put out to tender.
The primary means of communication with the majority ofour In line with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group shareholders, who have not requested paper copiesof our Audit partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five documentation, is through our website years seven years for subsidiary companies.
To ensure our shareholders have no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups time to consider our Annual Report and Accounts andNotice choice of external auditor.
of the AGMand lodge their proxy votes they are mailed more than 20working days prior to the meeting.
D. Relations with Shareholders We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or in paper format.
We also offer 1 Dialogue with shareholders: How does our Board them the ability to abstain.
ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place?
Our AGM provides a valuable opportunity for shareholders to meet and question our Directors.
At the AGM our Chairman Dialogue with our shareholders is given the highest priority.
and Chief Executive gave presentations on our performance During the year our Director of Investor Communications and current business activities.
ensured the Group met its commitment to keep shareholders fully informed.
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject Communication with Shareholders and all resolutions are put to a poll.
The number of proxy The primary means of communication with shareholders votesfor, against and withheld for each resolution are isvia our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Report displayed at the meeting.
The final results are published andwebsite.
In addition, we provided Interim Management through a Regulatory Information Service and on our website Statements and Trading Updates.
We have attended following each AGM.
numerous conferences, where we presented various aspects of the business to shareholders and potential shareholders.
At our 2010 AGM we received votes representing Our Executive Directors and investor relations team met with approximately 72 per cent of our issued share capital investors after results announcements, as part of conferences excluding shares held in treasury.
They also provide a point of focus Full details of our AGM to be held on Wednesday 2 February 2011, for investors who wish to raise queries or concerns.
together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed, Our Chairman met with a number of key shareholders during are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on our website the year and our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director www.
com and, where applicable, posted with was also available to meet key investors.
All Directors made this Report.
themselves available to meet shareholders at our AGM after Good governance also means ensuring we treat our stakeholders in a fair and just manner.
Matthew Phillips Group Corporate & Legal Affairs Director 72
