Membership This Report covers the following: The Remuneration Committee, which met four times during 1 the Remuneration Committees Objectives, Membership the year, comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors.
and Main Activities in 2010: The Committee members have no personal financial interest in 2 the matters discussed other than as shareholders.
During the Directors Emoluments and Share Interests: year Mr I J G Napier Company Chairman and Mr J-D Comolli 3 Review of Imperial Tobacco Groups Remuneration Deputy Chairman attended by invitation.
Policy and Practice: To reinforce the independence of the Remuneration Committee, 4 Directors Service Arrangements: a standing item at each meeting allows the members of the 5 Remuneration Practices: Committee to meet without the Company Chairman, any Executive Director or other manager being present.
6 Executive Directors Pensions: and Advice and Support 7 Other Information.
The Remuneration Committee is provided with the following internal and external advice and support: 1 The Remuneration Committees Objectives, Internal Membership and Main Activities in 2010 During the year Mrs A J Cooper Chief Executive from The Remuneration Committee operates under clear written 13 May 2010, Mr G Davis Chief Executive to 12 May 2010 terms of reference, which can be found on our website and Mr R Dyrbus Finance Director were invited to attend www.
The Remuneration Committee toanswer questions.
Mr M R Phillips General Counsel & formally confirms that throughout the year it has complied Company Secretary also attended as secretary to the with the governance rules and best practice provisions Committee.
They were all specifically excluded from any relating to remuneration as set out in section 1 of the Code.
matter concerning the details of their own remuneration or conditions of service.
The Remuneration Committees key objectives are to: Mrs K A Turner Group Human Resources Director, the ensure the Groups remuneration arrangements align with our Group Compensation and Benefits Manager and the Deputy values, support our corporate strategy, including our enhanced Company Secretary also attended and provided internal sales focus, and drive performance as measured by our support and advice on market and regulatory developments financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs, in remuneration practice and our employee share plans.
see pages 22 to 24: External maintain a competitive remuneration package appropriate to To assist the Remuneration Committee in setting the the business environment in the countries in which we remuneration package for each Executive Director operate so we can continue to attract, develop, retain and andmember of the Chief Executives Committee from motivate a high quality pool of talented employees at all levels, 1October 2010 the Operating Executive advice is provided whilst ensuring a clear link between reward and performance: by remuneration consultants Hewitt New Bridge Street ensure the remuneration policy motivates employees at all partof Aon Hewitt, and Towers Watson, both of whom are levels to enhance our performance without encouraging engaged by the Remuneration Committee as required.
Both them to take undue risks: and are signatories to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Advisers.
Neither provides any services to the Group other align senior executives remuneration with the interests of than those explained below.
shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers and employees, by balancing financial and non-financial elements.
79 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Directors Remuneration Report continued Main Activities How the Remuneration Committee met Hewitt New Bridge Street also reviews the Groups its Objectives remuneration principles and practices against corporate The Board is ultimately accountable for executive governance best practice and helps ensure adherence to the remuneration but delegates responsibility to the Groups Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
Our Remuneration Committee Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Watson addressed the following main issues during the year: was also used to assist in benchmarking to ensure the consistent application of our executive Remuneration Policy.
consideration of our new Chief Executives remuneration package upon appointment: To ensure Remuneration Committee members are fully aware consideration of our Remuneration Policy for ofnew developments and evolving remuneration best practice, ExecutiveDirectors: Hewitt New Bridge Street presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, focusing primarily on executive the annual review of the Chairmans, Executive Directors paygovernance.
andChief Executives Committee members remuneration: Aon Hewitt is also assisting the Group in respect of the reviewing the executive bonus targets: triennial valuation of its pension fund and acts as insurance brokers to the Group.
reviewing, and subsequently increasing, the executive bonus levels: Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP are retained by the Company and provide legal advice on our employee share plans.
Allen & Overy overseeing Remuneration Policy for senior management LLP and Ashurst LLP also provide services to the Remuneration and employees and our employee share plans: Committee as and when required.
Both Allen & Overy LLP and undertaking the annual review of the Committees Terms Ashurst LLP provide other legal services to the Group.
ofReference: and The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake the disclosures in this Report.
total shareholder return TSR calculations and provide advice on all TSR related matters, including advice in respect of the bespoke comparator group.
Alithos Limited provides no other services for the Group.
 LLP, our Auditors, perform agreed upon procedures on earnings per share EPS calculations used in our employee share plans to assist the Remuneration Committee in determining the level of awards vesting.
How the Committee spent its time % Executive remuneration 40 20 Performance metrics 30 including bonus 40 Oversight of share 10 10 based incentives Other including best 20 practice updates 30 80
