Principal Subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group, which are unlisted unless otherwise indicated, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales, wholly owned Name Principal activity Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company Incorporated overseas, wholly owned Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Altadis S. A. Spain Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products in Spain Altadis Distribution France S. A. S. France Distribution of tobacco products in France Altadis Emisiones Financieras SAU, Spain Finance company Altadis Finance B. V. Netherlands Finance company Altadis Maroc S. A. Morocco Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products in Morocco Altadis Middle East Fzco.
United Arab Emirates Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Middle East Altadis USA Inc. United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of cigars in the United States of America Commonwealth Brands Inc.
Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the United United States of America States of America Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista S. A. Spain Distribution of tobacco products and related services in Spain Ets.
L. Lacroix Fils N. V. Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco CR s. r. o. Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Imperial Tobacco Finland Oy, Finland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Finland Imperial Tobacco Hellas S. A. Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece 1 Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl, Italy Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Italy Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Dohnyforgalmaz Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary Kft, Hungary Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Norway A. S. Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Poland Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia Imperial Tobacco Sigara five Tutunculuck Sanayi Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey five Ticaret A. S. Turkey Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A. S. Slovak Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Co. Limited, Taiwan Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Taiwan Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Manufacturing Company Manufacture of tobacco products in Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis five Pazarlama Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey A. S. Turkey Imperial Tobacco Ukraine, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine OOO Imperial Tobacco Volga LLC, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia John Player S. A. Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Canary Islands John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland Logista Italia S. p. A. Italy Distribution of tobacco products in Italy Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China Skruf Snus AB, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Sweden 157 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Principal Subsidiaries continued Incorporated overseas, wholly owned continued Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Socit Nationale dExploitation Industrielle Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in France des Tabacs et Allumettes S. A. France and export of tobacco products Supergroup S. A. S. France Wholesale distribution in France Tobaccor S. A. S. France Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Africa Tobac na Ljubljana d. o. o. Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Slovenia Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands 800 JR Cigar Inc. United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the sale of cigars in the United States of America Incorporated overseas, partly owned Percentage 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Altadis Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland 99.97 ZAO Balkanskaya Zvezda, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia 99.9 Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8 Imperial Tobacco TKS a. d. Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 99.1 in Macedonia Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 98.6 in Kyrgyzstan 2 Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs S. A.
Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 74.1 in the Ivory Coast Incorporated overseas, joint ventures Percentage 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Altabana S. L. Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved 50.0 in the marketing and sale of Cuban cigars Corporacin Habanos S. A. Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0 Partnerships The Group wholly owns the following partnership: Name and country Principal activity Imperial Tobacco EFKA GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany The subsidiaries listed above were held throughout the year.
The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held by the Company.
A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
1 The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group is the same except for Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl where the entire share capital, and therefore 100 per cent of the voting rights, are held by a number of Group companies.
2 Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
