Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued Overview Operating Executive The Development Executive, which will meet monthly, was established on 1 October 2010 and comprises our Chief Members Executive: Group Sales and Marketing Director: Group Alison Cooper Matthew Phillips Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director Corporate and Legal Affairs Director: Head of Business Robert Dyrbus Walter Prinz Group Manufacturing Graham Blashill Performance Planning: Director, Strategy and Foresight: Research & Development Director Helen Clatworthy Group Supply andthe Corporate Development Director.
Kathryn Turner Group Human Chain Director Resources Director Fernando Dominguez Chief Responsibilities Operating Officer Cigar Business The responsibilities of the Development Executive include: leading the process to define the Groups strategy: Overview The Operating Executive, which will meet monthly, was providing specific focus on the planning and development established on 1 October 2010 and comprises all our agendas of thebusiness: and Executive Directors together with our Group Supply Chain managing the corporate planning process.
Director, Chief Operating Officer Cigar Business, Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, Group Manufacturing, 2 Chairman and Chief Executive: How do we ensure Research & Development Director and the Group Human no one individual has unfettered powers of decision?
Our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined Responsibilities andseparate responsibilities.
However, they retain a close The responsibilities of the Operating Executive include: working relationship and meet regularly between formal Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving preparing, and measuring performance against, the issues and to facilitate swift decision making.
They are operational plan of thebusiness and updating the plan responsible to our shareholders for the successful and where appropriate ensuring the Group achieves its financial profitable delivery of our strategy.
and non-financialtargets: Through his effective leadership of the Board, our Chairman setting and implementing the change agenda: ensures all Directors are able to effectively contribute to ensuring the cross-functional operational performance of discussions such that the Group fully benefits from their wide the business isdelivering against our growth strategy: range of skills and experience.
Supported by our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Chairman is implementing the Groups risk management and internal responsible for our effective communication with control processes within the framework set by the Board: shareholders and ensuring they can raise any concerns.
ensuring the Groups employees have the appropriate Our Chief Executive, supported by the Chief Executives capabilities through development and succession plans Committee from 1 October 2010, the Operating Executive forkey roles: and and the Development Executive which she chairs, is effective internal and external communications.
responsible for the successful implementation of the strategies and objectives set by the Board together with theday-to-day leadership of the Group.
Development Executive 3 Board balance and independence: Howdo Members weensure a sensible balance of Executive and Alison Cooper Claudio Righetti Director, Strategy Non-Executive Directors?
and Foresight Graham Blashill Conrad Tate Corporate Matthew Phillips Group Corporate We see having a Board with the right skill set as vital to Development Director and Legal Affairs Director ourongoing success and expansion.
As evidenced by their Mike Ashton Head of Business Performance Planning biographies on pages 56 and 57, our Executive Directors are all expertsin their specific roles and, in addition, have a wealth of experience in the wider tobacco industry.
This is complemented To us good governance means ensuring the processes in place are appropriate to take the business in the right strategic direction.
Alison Cooper Chief Executive 62 and supplemented by our Non-Executive Directors who bring Since adopting these procedures the Board has considered awide range of business and financial expertise to the Board, and authorised a number of situations all of which relate for example, from the wider FMCG, financial and legal sectors tothe holding of external directorships and have been together with specific regional knowledge.
entered in our Conflicts Register.
No actual conflicts have been identified.
The Board considers that these procedures We believe the Board remains well balanced and operate effectively.
The Board currently has 10 Directors: our Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive As part of our annual review process we reviewed and Directors and six independent Non-Executive Directors.
reconsidered all situations entered in the Conflicts Register at our Board meeting in September 2010.
We intend to Mr J-D Comolli, who resigned from the Board with effect perform this review and reconsideration annually.
from 14 September 2010, was not classified by the Company as independent for the purposes of the Code Following the above notifications and annual review when determining the composition of our Board and theBoard is satisfied there is no compromise to the itsCommittees, due to his Chairmanships of certain independence of those Directors who have board subsidiaries within our Group and his provision of appointments or relationships with companies outside the consultancy services.
In order to underpin his independence we entered into an agreement with Mr B Setrakian on 25 June 2008 to Dr P H Jungels is our Senior Independent Director with minimise the risk of any conflict of interest between Dewey whom we encourage shareholders to raise any concerns.
&LeBoeuf LLP, of which he is a partner, and the Company.
Following its annual evaluation page 65 and review of This agreement remains in full force and effect and the Board potential conflicts of interest, the Board concluded at its confirms his compliance with its terms and, therefore, his meeting in September 2010 that all our Non-Executive continued independence.
Directors continue to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate.
This evaluation also concluded that our Non-Executive Directors continue to objectively challenge Nominations Committee and robustly question management and at all times have thebest interests of our stakeholders in mind.
We, therefore, confirm that, with the exception of Mr Comolli until his resignation on 14 September 2010 and our Chairman who was only required to meet the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, our Non-Executive Directors remain independent as defined in the Code.
To address the provisions of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act relating to conflicts of interest, our Articles Iain Napier of Association allow the Board to authorise situations in Chairman which a Director has, or may have, a conflict of interest.
4 Appointments to the Board: Howrigorous isour Our procedures require Directors to give notice of any procedure for the appointment of new directors to potential situational and or transactional conflict.
notifications are considered at the following Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, situational conflicts are Members authorised.
We do not allow any Director to participate in Mr I J G Napier, Chairman Ms S E Murray such considerations or to vote regarding their own conflicts.
Dr K M Burnett Mr B Setrakian Mr J-D Comolli Mr M D Williamson to 14 September 2010 Mr M R Phillips General Counsel Mr M H C Herlihy &Company Secretary from 1 October 2010 Group Corporate and Dr P H Jungels Legal Affairs Director, acts as Mr C F Knott to 17 July 2010 Secretary to the Committee Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors No.
Chairman 1 1 Executive 3 Non-Executive 6 3 6 63 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued Board Changes Overview We continually review the composition and balance of The Nominations Committee comprises all our NonourBoard to ensure we have the right structure, skills and Executive Directors and meets as required.
expertise in place for the effective management of our The Committees terms of reference state that the multinational business.
succession of the Chief Executive is a matter reserved formeetings of all Non-Executive Directors rather than the Following approval by our Board on 9 November 2009, Nominations Committee.
Accordingly, due to the focus of MrsAJCooper was appointed Chief Executive with effect nomination matters during the year being the succession of from 13May 2010. the Chief Executive, all nomination items were considered at On 17 July 2010 our Board accepted Mr C F Knotts meetings of the Non-Executive Directors.
resignation and on 3 August 2010 our Board accepted Mr J-D Comollis resignation with effect from 14 September 2010.
Nomination matters considered by the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed as part of the Board performance 5 Information and professional development: evaluation process.
How do we induct and regularly inform our Board?
Responsibilities We have a detailed induction and briefing programme for The responsibilities of the Committee include: Directors on appointment to the Board which is tailored to evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and each Directors needs, taking into account their individual experience of our Board: qualifications and experience.
development of role specifications: Our programme includes meetings with our advisers and keyemployees from major functions together with site formulation of succession plans: and visits.
These meetings also include briefings on corporate making recommendations tothe Board with regard to the responsibility and corporate affairs issues, legal matters, appointment of directors.
product stewardship, environmental management, social impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and commercial How the Nominations Committee Met its Responsibilities riskmanagement.
During the Year The appointment of the Chief Executive involved a rigorous Ongoing training is available to all Directors to meet their process including the consideration of prospective individual needs.
We also provide regular briefings to Directors candidates performance and interviews together with on relevant issues such as legislation and regulation changes internal and external benchmarking.
For example, during the year our legal advisers gave a presentation to Following this rigorous process a formal meeting of the theBoard in respect of Directors duties and liabilities.
Non-Executive Directors recommended to the Board the appointment of Mrs A J Cooper to the position of Chief During our September 2010 Board meeting Directors visited Executive.
In addition to this formal meeting, the Nonour operations in France where they met senior managers and Executive Directors held a number of other meetings and received detailed presentations on our French operations.
discussions concerning Board succession planning and The Audit and Remuneration Committees also received other nomination matters.
briefings from our Auditors,  LLP, and remuneration adviser, Hewitt New Bridge Street, respectively to ensure they remain up-to-date with current regulations and developments.
The Committees terms of reference We are confident the are published onour website, www.
com Directors have the skills and expertise to successfully deliver our strategy.
Iain Napier Chairman 64 attention, senior managers attended a number of strategy 6 Performance evaluation: How do we days, Board meetings and Board dinners.
Further formallyevaluate our Board and Committees succession planning also continued to be discussed at performance annually?
Non-Executive Director meetings held during the year.
During the year, with the assistance of an external In order to obtain maximum value from the annual evaluations consultant, our Board formally reviewed and evaluated and to benefit from the varying skills and focuses of alternative itsperformance, together with the performance of its facilitators, we may consider alternative facilitators, formats Committees and individual Directors.
Feedback from each and approaches in future years.
This will ensure our evaluations Director was obtained through detailed questionnaires which remain appropriate to the requirements of the Chairman were used as the basis for the overall evaluation of the Board andBoard and the recommendations in the UK Corporate and its Committees and feedback discussions between Governance Code published in June 2010. each Director and the Chairman.
The results were discussed 7 by the Board at its meetings in September 2010 and Re-election: How do we ensure planned and October 2010. progressive refreshing of the Board?
Our Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Following a rigorous selection process and recommendation Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to by the Nominations Committee, Directors are appointed consider the performance of the Chairman.
They must, however, submit themselves forelection by shareholders at the AGM following their After taking account of the results of the Chairmans formal appointment and, with effect from our 2011 AGM, annually performance evaluation our Senior Independent Director thereafter in accordance with the recommendations of the provided feedback to the Chairman on a one-to-one basis.
Revised Code and the proposed new articles of association The Chairman held meetings exclusively with the of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors to consider, amongst other The performance of each Director is considered as part of things, succession issues and the performance of the the Board evaluation, before recommending such election or Executive Directors.
Following this evaluation the Board recommends Informed by the evaluation, the Board andits Committees the re-election of all Directors at our 2011 AGM.
are satisfied they are operating and performing effectively.
We recognise that a number of shareholders have expressed The evaluation did not identify any significant areas for concern that annual re-election of Directors could encourage concern nor any requirement to provide extra training for them to take a short-term view.
We are, however, confident ourDirectors.
It also confirmed that all our Directors have that our remuneration policies encourage Directors to act in the sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute best long-term interests of stakeholders, for example through effectively to our Board and its Committees and that, long term incentive plans and shareholding requirements.
following the Board changes during the year, it remains In order to facilitate smooth Board refreshment we regularly appropriately constituted in terms of the Code and the review the composition, skill set and balance of our Board, Revised Code and skill set.
together with the length of service of each Director and The main area identified for review was the future size and thereby identify the skills required of future directors.
structure of the Board, including the competencies required of potential new Non-Executive Directors who may be Our Senior Independent Director, who is also the Chairman, appointed when current Non-Executive Directors retire of the Remuneration Committee, is approaching nine years without seeking re-election.
This will be considered during the year as part of the regular review of the structure Following the 2009 Board evaluation, in order to assist with of the Board.
Executive Director succession planning which was identified in the evaluation as the main theme requiring Board Tenure of Directors No.
