2 Mr G Davis retired from the Board on 12 May 2010.
3 Mr J-D Comolli resigned from the Board on 14 September 2010.
4 Mr C F Knott resigned from the Board on 17 July 2010.
There have been no changes in these interests since 30 September 2010.
3 Review of Imperial Tobacco Groups Remuneration Policy and Practice Remuneration Strategy We operate in a highly competitive, international environment.
Our remuneration strategy is to ensure that the level of remuneration and benefits offered motivates our talented employees at all levels across the Group.
Our bonus and share plan arrangements provide a clear link between reward and performance.
We set out to provide competitive remuneration toall employees, appropriate to the business environment in the countries in which we operate.
Our remuneration arrangements align with and support our corporate strategy.
We continue to assign employees internationally to achieve the optimum balance of experience within the Group and facilitate employee development.
Our cohesive reward structures ensure all our employees engage with our strategic goals and are motivated to achieve them.
We align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the opportunity to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group through our employee share plans.
This alignment is reinforced further through the Groups executive share ownership guidelines discussed on page 92.
Where possible our employees were offered participation in one or more employee share plans during the year, with over 32 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more of those plans.
Executive Remuneration Policy We consider it critical to align the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee with effect from 1 October 2010 the newly formed Operating Executive with the Groups strategy and risk.
In designing and reviewing our executive remuneration policy we aim to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve high levels of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
We, therefore, aim for our policy to be competitive whilst ensuring the overall remuneration package is not excessive.
Our executive remuneration policy supports our strategy by linking the major elements of remuneration to performance criteria aligned with our key performance indicators KPIs.
The policy includes both short-term and long-term incentives.
Packages are significantly weighted towards performance related pay elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, annual bonus, share matching scheme SMS, long term incentive plan LTIP and pension benefits.
To achieve alignment with our KPIs, the performance criteria for the SMS and LTIP are designed to motivate earnings per share and total shareholder return TSR growth whilst those relating to the annual bonus support key areas of performance, including a matrix incentivising growth in adjusted earnings per share, debt reduction, cigarette volume growth, growth in our global strategic brands and anti-illicit trade activities.
