Legal Notices Notice concerning forward-looking statements This Annual Report contains forward looking statements.
These statements are subject to a number of risk and uncertainties and actual results and events could diff er materially from those currently being anticipated as refl ected in such forward looking statements.
The terms 'expect', 'should be', 'will be' and similar expressions identify forward looking statements.
Factors which may cause future outcomes to diff er from those foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions and business conditions in Informa's markets: exchange rate fl uctuations, customers' acceptance of its products and services: the actions of competitors: legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments: changes in law and legal interpretation affecting Informa's intellectual property rights and internet communications: and the impact of technological change.
These forward looking statements speak only as of the date of publication of this Annual Report.
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward looking statements contained in this document to refl ect any change in the Groups expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The Group warns investors that a number of important factors, including those in this Annual Report, could cause actual results to diff er materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk and Uncertainties on pages 26 to 30 of this Annual Report.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 125 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
