Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Informa plc We have audited the financial statements of Informa plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to The financial reporting framework that has been applied report to you if, in our opinion: in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally r proper accounting records have not been kept by the Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as or a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken r the financial statements are not in agreement with the so that we might state to the Companys members those accounting records and returns: or matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent r we have not received all the information and permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility explanations we require for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: or for the opinions we have formed.
r the Directors Statement, the Corporate Governance Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Statement, in relation to going concern: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for r the part of the Corporate Governance Statement the preparation of the financial statements and for relating to the Companys compliance with the nine being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the for our review: and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and r certain elements of the report to the shareholders by International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the Board on directors remuneration.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Ian Waller An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors give reasonable assurance that the financial statements London, UK are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether 22 February 2011 the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: r give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its loss for the year then ended: r have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and r have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
116 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
