NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Inmarsat plc the Company or together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in Great Britain and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered of ce is 99 City Road, London, EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5.
The Companys ticker symbol on the London Stock Exchange is ISAT LSE: ISAT.
Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards IAS regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities, as described later in these accounting policies.
The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ow generation and is compliant with all covenants.
As a consequence and despite the continuing uncertain economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairman and Chief Executives Business Review and the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 2 to 28.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 18 to 28.
In addition, notes 3, 31 and 32 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risk management objectives, its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Basis of accounting The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are signi cant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
In the current year the Group adopted IFRS 3 2008, Business Combinations.
Amongst other changes, the amendments require the expensing of acquisition costs in relation to business combinations.
Previously the Group capitalised such costs as part of the cost of the investment.
In addition, consideration for an acquisition is measured at fair value at the acquisition date and any changes to the consideration resulting from events after the balance sheet date are recognised in the Income Statement.
In addition, the following standards and interpretations, as adopted by the EU, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group with no signi cant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: IFRS 2 as amended Share-based Payment Amendments relating to group cash-settled share-based payments transactions effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
IAS 39 as amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Amendments resulting from the April 2009 Annual Improvements to IFRSs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Consequential amendments to other standards arising from amendments to IFRS 3 2008, Business Combinations effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
64 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 7 as amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classi cation and Measurement effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 24 as revised Related Party Disclosures Revised fide nition of related parties effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IAS 32 as amended Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendments relating to classi cation of rights issues effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
IFRIC 14 as amended IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
Amendments resulting from the May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011, except for IFRS 3 and IAS 27 which are effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its domestic and overseas subsidiary undertakings.
All intercompany transactions and balances with subsidiary undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
Subsidiary undertakings include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the period are included in the consolidated pro t and loss account from the date of establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values re ecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identi able separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the identi able separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
For transactions completed on or before 31 December 2009 fees and similar incremental costs incurred directly in making the acquisition were included in the cost of the acquisition and capitalised.
Internal costs, and other expenses that cannot be directly attributed to the acquisition, are charged to the Income Statement.
As of 1 January 2010, on adoption of IFRS 3 2008, Business Combinations, fees and similar incremental costs incurred directly in making the acquisition are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
In the year ended 31 December 2009 the Group applied the principles of IFRS 3 2008, Business Combinations, in respect of the expensing of acquisition costs in relation to the Segovia transaction which was completed on 12 January 2010 see note 29.
The Standard is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009, for Inmarsat this applied to business combinations for which the acquisition date was on or after 1 January 2010 and therefore was applicable to the Segovia transaction.
As a consequence, in the year ended 31 December 2009, we recognised US$3.9m of transaction costs associated with the acquisition of Segovia as an expense in the Income Statement.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identi ed separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the original combination.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 65 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of the Company and all of the Groups subsidiaries and the presentation currency of the Group is the US dollar, as the majority of operational transactions are denominated in US dollars.
The exchange rate between US dollars and Pounds Sterling as at 31 December 2010 was US$1.57 1.00 2009: US$1.61 1.00.
The average rate between US dollar and Pounds Sterling for 2010 was US$1.55 1.00 2009: US$1.56 1.00.
The hedged rate between US dollar and Pounds Sterling for 2010 for Inmarsat Global was US$1.49 1.00 2009: US$1.92 1.00. b Transactions and balances Transactions not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year have been translated using the spot rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Differences on exchange arising on the settlement of the transactions denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in the Income Statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertaking of the Group have been translated at the spot rates of exchange ruling at the end of each month.
Differences on exchange arising from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in equity to the extent that the foreign exchange exposure is hedged while the remaining differences are recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial instruments and hedging activities Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument.
Non-derivative financial assets are classi ed as accounts receivable, short-term deposits or cash and cash equivalents.
They are stated at amortised cost using the effective-interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and bank time deposits, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
In the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are all classi ed as other liabilities and stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and nancing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the Income Statement except where the derivative is a designated cash ow hedging instrument.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Gains or losses on cash ow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
Where the forecast transaction results in a financial asset or liability, gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassi ed to the Income Statement in the same period as the asset or liability impacts income.
If the forecasted transaction or commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the same period as the underlying income or expenditure.
The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the Income Statement when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
However, where the Group has applied cash ow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction that is no longer expected to occur, then the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
Revenue recognition Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the services are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
Mobile satellite communications services lease revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between one and twelve months, unless another systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
66 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Groups revenues are stated net of volume discounts.
The seasonality of volume discounts has been removed following the implementation of the new distribution agreements on 15 April 2009.
Historically, volume discounts increased over the course of the financial year as speci c revenue thresholds were achieved by distribution partners resulting in lower prices.
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements, services contracts, rental income, conference facilities and income from the sale of terminals and other communication equipment.
Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements is recognised using the percentage of completion approach.
Revenue from service contracts, rental income and conference facilities is recognised as the service is provided.
Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
The Company offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable arrangements.
Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting provided 1 the deliverable has a standalone value to the customer if it is sold separately and 2 the fair value of the item can be objectively and reliably determined.
Consideration for these items is measured and allocated to each separate unit based on their fair values and the Companys relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
Employee bene ts Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, bonuses and non-monetary bene ts are accrued in the year in which the associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Termination bene ts are payable whenever an employees employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these bene ts.
The Group recognises termination bene ts when it has demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination bene ts, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to fide ned bene t pension plans and post-retirement healthcare bene ts in respect of employees in the UK and overseas.
The Groups net obligations in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans and post-retirement healthcare bene ts are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future bene t that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that bene t is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group operates a number of fide ned contribution pension schemes in its principal locations.
Pension costs for the fide ned contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary deductible differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 67 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Research and development Research expenditure is expensed when incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation.
Development costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a business case has been demonstrated and they can be measured reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
Property, plant and equipment Space segment assets Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestone payments, external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included within liabilities.
These space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into service.
Borrowing costs attributable to the construction of assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets.
Assets in course of construction Assets in course of construction relate to the Alphasat satellite, the S-Band project and new Inmarsat 5 Global Xpress services.
These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over the life of the satellites once they become operational and placed into service.
No depreciation has been charged on these assets.
Other xed assets Other xed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write off the historical cost less residual values, if any, of xed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
The lives assigned to signi cant tangible xed assets are: Space segment assets 515 years Fixtures and ttings, and services-related equipment 515 years Buildings 20 years Other xed assets 35 years Asset retirement obligations The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost re ected in operating expenses.
Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash ows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation and the related property, plant and equipment.
Government grants Government grants have been received in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
Government grants are deducted from the cost of the relevant assets to arrive at carrying amount.
The grants are therefore recognised as income over the lives of the assets by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
Gains and losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing net proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in the Income Statement.
68 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal development costs, spectrum rights, customer relationships and intellectual property.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for intangible assets with a nite useful life are reviewed each financial year.
a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid on the acquisition over the fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Patents and trademarks Patents and trademarks are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives which are 7 years and between 10 and 20 years, respectively.
c Software development costs Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are capitalised as intangible assets.
Costs are capitalised once a business case has been demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Such costs are amortised over the estimated sales life of the services.
d Terminal development costs The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development of user terminals.
For BGAN services terminal development costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives which is between 5 and 10 years.
e Spectrum rights Spectrum rights are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the ACeS collaboration in September 2006 are amortised over a remaining useful life of 4 years.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the Stratos acquisition are amortised over their useful lives of 3 to 10 years.
f Customer relationships Customer relationships acquired in connection with the Stratos and Segovia acquisitions are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and are being amortised over the expected period of bene t of 12 and 14 years respectively using the straight-line method.
g Intellectual property Intellectual property is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and is now fully amortised.
Impairment of nonfinancial assets Assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
The impairment review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the xed asset or goodwill with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The carrying amount will only be increased where an impairment loss recognised in a previous period for an asset other than goodwill either no longer exists or has decreased, up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Any impairment to goodwill recognised in a previous period is not reversed.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are identi ed as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash ows that are largely independent of other cash ow streams.
The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the cash ows and an appropriate proportion of corporate assets.
For the purposes of impairment review space segment assets are treated as one CGU.
Investments Investments in equity instruments that do not have quoted market prices in active markets are recorded at cost.
Investments are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value and reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that trade receivables are impaired.
Larger accounts are speci cally reviewed to assess a customers ability to make payments.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 69 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Leases Leases where a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases by the lessee.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest and finance costs Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings are capitalised as part of the carrying amount of the borrowings and amortised over the life of the debt.
The accretion of the discount on the principal on the Convertible Bonds is accounted for as an interest expense.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by the weighted average cost method.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings as current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Provisions Provisions, other than in respect of pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts, are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic bene ts arising from past events and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are not recognised unless the out ow of economic bene ts to settle the obligation is more likely than not to occur.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised as proceeds received, net of transaction and arrangement costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings and the difference between the proceeds and the redemption value are recognised in the Income Statement over the life of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classi ed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the Balance Sheet date.
Convertible Bonds Convertible bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder are considered and accounted for as compound financial instruments, consisting of a separate liability component and an equity component in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible debt instrument.
The embedded call and put options, since they are closely linked to the underlying instrument, are valued and recognised as part of the liability.
The total liability is recognised as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bond.
The equity component initially brought to account is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole and represents the option for the holder to convert the bond into equity of the company.
This conversion option is recognised and included directly in equity and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts at the date of issue.
On conversion, the liability is reclassi ed to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the pro t or loss.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element is recognised in the pro t or loss.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be payable on redemption.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is a non GAAP performance measure used by analysts and investors, and is fide ned as pro t before income tax, net interest payable, depreciation and amortisation, share of results of associates, gain on disposal of assets and acquisition-related adjustments.
70 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations and signi cant debt nancing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of uctuating interest rates on its oating rate long-term debt.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a sub-committee, the Treasury Review Committee, the responsibility for setting the risk management policies applied by the Group.
The policies are implemented by the treasury department which receives regular reports from the operating companies to enable prompt identi cation of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out speci c guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk see note 32.
The management of the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is US dollars.
The Group generates the majority of its revenue in US dollars.
The vast majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US dollars.
Approximately 60% of Inmarsat Globals operating costs are denominated in Sterling.
Stratos operate internationally, resulting in approximately 5% to 10% of revenue and expenditure being denominated in currencies other than in US dollar.
The Groups exposures therefore need to be carefully managed to avoid variability in future cash ows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
The Groups long-term borrowings are denominated in US dollars, as disclosed in note 19, which is therefore not subject to risks associated with uctuating foreign currency rates of exchange.
The foreign currency hedging policy of the Group is to economically hedge a minimum of 50% of anticipated foreign currency exposure in operating expenses for the next 12 months and up to a maximum of 100% for the next three years on a rolling basis.
As at 31 December 2010 it is estimated that: A hypothetical 1% in ation of the hedged US dollar Sterling exchange rate US$1.49 1.00 to US$1.51 1.00 would have decreased the 2010 pro t before tax by approximately US$1.1m 2009: US$1.3m.
A hypothetical 1% in ation of the US dollar Sterling foreign currency spot rate at 31 December 2010, would have reduced the 2010 pro t before tax by approximately US$0.2m 2009: US$0.2m, primarily as a result of the translation of Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
This analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts the translation of these items at the period end for a 1% change in foreign currency rates.
A hypothetical 1% in ation in the US dollar Sterling and a 1% fide ation in the US dollar Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31 December 2010, would have impacted equity by US$1.8m and US$1.3m, respectively 2009: US$1.2m and US$1.6m, respectively primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash ow hedges.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
ii Price risk The Group is not exposed to signi cant equity securities price risk or commodity price risk.
b Interest rate risk Given the Group has no signi cant interest-bearing assets, income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
The policy of the Group is to ensure certainty of the interest charge by xing interest rates on 60 100% of forecast net debt for the next two years on a rolling basis.
The Senior Notes due 2017 and the Convertible Bonds are at xed rates.
The Group manages its cash ow interest rate risk by using oating-toxed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from oating rates to xed rates.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at speci c intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between xed contract rates and oating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED As at 31 December 2010, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with all other variables held constant, the Groups pro t after tax for the year would have been impacted by US$0.5m 2009: US$0.2m.
This is primarily due to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For oating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at each balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in interest rates.
c Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables and derivative financial instruments.
The credit risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly rated financial institutions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is: US$ in millions Note 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 16 343.8 226.8 Trade receivables and other receivables 17 203.0 176.2 Derivative financial instruments 32 14.3 24.1 Total credit risk 561.1 427.1 The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2010 was approximately 58 days as at 31 December 2009: 59 days.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third party collections processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
The following table sets out the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables and revenue adjustments: US$ in millions 2010 2009 As at 1 January: 12.9 13.9 Charged to the provision in respect of the current year 9.7 9.4 Utilised in the year 10.0 9.2 Provision released in the year 1.4 1.2 a As at 31 December 11.2 12.9 a The maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables and revenue adjustments for the year ended 31 December 2010 is US$2.0m current, US$1.1m between 1 and 30 days overdue, US$1.1m between 31 and 120 days overdue and US$7.0m over 120 days overdue 2009: US$3.2m, US$2.0m, US$1.4m and US$6.3m respectively.
For 2010, one 2009: one distribution partner, which is reported in the Inmarsat Global segment, comprised approximately 21.3% 2009: 23.5% of the Groups total revenues.
This same customer comprised 34.0% 2009: 37.8% of the Groups trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2010.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue and accounts receivable at 31 December 2010.
The following table sets out the Groups trade receivable balance by maturity: US$ in millions Note 2010 2009 Current 146.3 129.7 Between 1 and 30 days overdue 34.6 32.1 Between 31 and 120 days overdue 3.2 4.2 Over 120 days overdue 0.5 0.8 Total trade receivables 17 184.6 166.8 d Liquidity risk The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining suf cient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity pro les of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group maintains a long-term Revolving Credit Facility of US$300.0m that is designed to ensure it has suf cient available funds for operations.
Drawings on this facility were US$nil as at 31 December 2010 2009: US$90.0m.
In addition, as at 31 December 2009, a Revolving Operating Facility of US$10.0m was also available to Stratos to ensure it has suf cient funds available for operations.
This facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2009 and subsequently cancelled in the year ending 31 December 2010.
72 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The more signi cant estimates are discussed below: a Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group annually undertakes tests to determine whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are given in note 14.
For the purpose of testing for impairment, goodwill is speci cally allocated to one of four CGUs which have been identi ed, being Inmarsat Global, Stratos MSS, Stratos Broadband and Segovia.
It has been determined that goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Inmarsat Ventures Limited represented goodwill of the Inmarsat CGU only.
Goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Stratos has been allocated to the Stratos MSS and Stratos Broadband CGUs.
Goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Segovia has been allocated to the Segovia CGU only.
As at 31 December 2010, the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Inmarsat, Stratos MSS, Stratos Broadband and Segovia CGUs was US$406.2m, US$241.4m, US$21.1m and US$27.2m, respectively as at 31 December 2009: US$406.2m, US$241.4m, US$21.1m and US$nil, respectively.
Goodwill is tested by comparing the carrying amount of the CGU with its value in use.
The value in use calculation utilises an estimate of the future cash ows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
The key assumptions used in calculating the value in use are as follows: discount rate the pre-tax rate used to discount the operating pro t projections in respect of the Group in 2010 was 10.5%-14.0% 2009: 10.5% and: operating pro t projections are derived from management approved five-year forecasts and have assumed terminal growth rates for the Group for 2010 of 2.5-3.0% 2009: 2.5-3.0%.
Using the value in use as a measure, no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill was recognised.
In the opinion of the Directors, there have been no changes in the business strategy that would result in the carrying value of goodwill exceeding its recoverable amount.
For the Stratos MSS CGU the value in use exceeds the carrying value by US$86.4m.
The discount rate would need to increase to 11.75%, before the carrying value would exceed the value in use and result in an impairment charge being recognised in the Income Statement.
b Pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare bene ts assumptions Inmarsat Global has applied a rate of return on assets of 7.80% p. a.
2009: 7.77% p. a. which represents the expected return on asset holdings in the future.
The discount rate used to calculate the pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities was 5.50% 2009: 5.50% see note 28. c Income tax The Groups income tax balance is the sum of the total current and deferred tax balances.
The calculation of this, and of the Groups potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be nally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash ows.
d Revenue in respect of the LightSquared cooperation agreement In December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared entered into a cooperation agreement for the ef cient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
On 17 August 2010, LightSquared triggered Phase 1 of this agreement under which the Group will receive payments totalling US$118.8m in respect of its work to transition to a modi ed spectrum plan, which will be accounted for based on the time spent by Inmarsats engineers as a percentage of the expected time to complete the spectrum re-banding exercise over an eighteen month transition period.
In addition, Inmarsat will receive US$250.0m towards the costs that the Group will incur on network and terminal modi cations which will be recognised according to the costs incurred to date as a percentage of managements best estimate of the total that will be incurred.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the period to 2014.
The key area of estimation uncertainty relates to our estimates of the total time costs that will be incurred and our estimate of the percentage of completion of the time and costs that we have incurred.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
Segmental information IFRS 8, Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identi ed on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to allocate resources and assess performance.
The CODM of Inmarsat plc is the Chief Executive Of cer who is responsible for assessing the performance of the individual segments.
Information reported to the CODM for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance is speci cally focused on the individual performance of each of the divisions within the Group, namely Inmarsat Global and Stratos.
The Groups reportable segments are therefore as follows: Inmarsat Global principally the supply of wholesale airtime, equipment and services to distribution partners and other wholesale partners of mobile satellite communications by the Inmarsat Global business, including entering into spectrum coordination agreements.
The segment also includes income from technical support to other operators, the provision of conference facilities and leasing surplus of ce space to external organisations, all of which are not material on a standalone basis and in aggregate and which were previously disclosed in 2009 in an other segment.
As a result of this change, the comparative amounts for 2009 have been re-presented: Stratos the supply of advanced mobile and xed-site remote telecommunications services, the provision of customised turnkey remote telecommunications solutions, value-added services, equipment and engineering services to end-users: and Unallocated includes Group borrowings and the related interest expense, cash and cash equivalents and current and deferred tax balances, which are not allocated to each segment.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment pro t represents the pro t earned by each segment without allocation of investment revenue, finance costs and income tax expense.
Business segments: 2010 a US$ in millions Inmarsat Global Stratos Unallocated Eliminations Total Revenue External sales 461.0 710.6 1,171.6 Inter-segment 303.1 6.2 309.3 Total revenue 764.1 716.8 309.3 1,171.6 Segment result operating pro t 403.4 57.4 0.2 460.6 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 127.1 127.1 Pro t before income tax 333.5 Income tax expense 72.4 Pro t for the year 261.1 Segment assets 2,329.2 905.7 343.8 420.7 3,158.0 Segment liabilities 367.3 162.4 1,593.0 53.4 2,069.3 b Investment included in segment assets 23.5 23.5 c Capital expenditure 157.6 30.6 0.1 188.1 Depreciation 145.6 27.5 173.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 23.8 37.7 61.5 a Includes Segovia from 12 January 2010. b Relates to 19% stake in SkyWave Mobile Communications SkyWave see note 15. c Capital expenditure stated using accruals basis.
2009 re-presented US$ in millions Inmarsat Global Stratos Unallocated Eliminations Total Revenue External sales 399.0 639.1 1,038.1 Inter-segment 295.8 5.0 300.8 Total revenue 694.8 644.1 300.8 1,038.1 Segment result operating pro t 315.6 43.0 1.8 356.8 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 159.9 159.9 Pro t before income tax 196.9 Income tax expense 44.1 Pro t for the year 152.8 Segment assets 1,974.0 777.5 226.8 72.7 2,905.6 Segment liabilities 265.8 128.7 1,615.7 74.6 1,935.6 a Investment included in segment assets 23.5 23.5 b Capital expenditure 142.2 24.0 0.4 165.8 Depreciation 160.2 23.7 183.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 19.7 28.0 47.7 a Relates to 19% stake in SkyWave see note 15. b Capital expenditure stated using accruals basis.
74 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Geographical segments: The Group mainly operates in the geographic areas shown in the table below.
The home country of the Group is the United Kingdom, with its head of ce and central operations located in London.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For Inmarsat Global this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service and for Stratos this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2010 2009 Non-current Non-current Segment Segment a a US$ in millions Revenue Assets Revenue Assets Europe 560.5 1,333.6 515.9 1,368.2 North America 357.3 414.7 259.4 175.4 Asia and Paci c 184.9 22.9 202.4 32.0 Rest of the world 68.9 60.4 b Unallocated 747.7 842.1 1,171.6 2,518.9 1,038.1 2,417.7 a In line with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, non-current segment assets exclude derivative financial instruments.
b Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
Pro t before income tax Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operations costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts, operating lease rentals and services.
A further breakdown of employee bene t costs is given in note 7 below.
Pro t before income tax is stated after charging the following items: US$ in millions Note 2010 2009 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 173.1 183.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 61.5 47.7 Operating lease rentals Land and buildings 16.8 17.5 Services equipment, xtures and ttings 0.6 0.2 Space segment 17.4 18.9 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 63.5 55.6 Research and development costs expensed 4.4 3.5 The analysis of the Auditors remuneration is as follows: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.9 1.0 Total audit fees 1.1 1.2 Other services, pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Tax services 2.7 1.6 Services relating to remuneration 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.5 Total non-audit services 2.8 2.3 a In addition, total audit fees payable to other auditors in respect of the audit of the consolidated financial statements was US$nil 2009: US$9,944.
b In addition to the fees disclosed above, Inmarsat Globals pension plan incurred audit fees from our auditors of US$18,480 for the 2010 financial year 2009: US$27,106.
c As of 31 July 2009 Stratos changed their auditors to Deloitte.
In 2010 Stratos incurred audit fees from other auditors of US$nil 2009: US$35,202 relating to the quarterly reviews in the first half of 2009. d At 31 December 2010 Inmarsat Global had contractually committed to US$0.6m of tax services to be completed in the 2011 financial year 31 December 2009: US$0.3m to be completed in the 2010 financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 75 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Employee bene t costs including the Executive Directors US$ in millions Note 2010 2009 Wages and salaries 148.6 158.0 Social security costs 12.6 12.5 Share options charge including employers national insurance contribution 25 11.4 10.8 fide ned contribution pension plan costs 5.9 6.7 a fide ned bene t pension plan costs 28 2.2 1.2 a Post-retirement healthcare plan costs 28 1.0 0.8 Total employee bene t costs 181.7 190.0 a fide ned bene t pension plan costs and post-retirement healthcare plan costs for 2010 and 2009 re ect the service cost see note 28.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of people including the Executive Directors employed during the year by category of employment: 2010 2009 Inmarsat Inmarsat Global Stratos Total Global Stratos Total Operations 191 358 549 181 341 522 Sales and marketing 92 143 235 87 132 219 Development and engineering 78 98 176 79 49 128 Administration 140 255 395 137 238 375 501 854 1,355 484 760 1,244 8.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors remuneration US$ thousands 2010 2009 Aggregate emoluments 3,572 4,754 Company contributions to fide ned contribution pension schemes 136 157 3,708 4,911 The Directors Remuneration Report contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on page 54.
One Director 2009: one is accruing bene ts under the Groups fide ned contribution pension plan.
One Director is a member of the US 401k Plan 2009: one.
Key management The Executive Directors and the Executive Staff comprising the Chief Executive Of cer and his direct reports are the key management of the business see note 34.
76 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.
Net interest payable US$ in millions 2010 2009 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 62.0 25.2 Interest on Senior Discount Notes 44.1 Interest on Convertible Bond 25.5 23.7 a Interest on Stratos borrowings 19.8 18.8 Pension and post-retirement liability finance costs 4.2 Interest rate swaps 13.7 11.2 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 2.8 3.0 b Amortisation of debt issue costs 8.0 14.8 Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2017 0.6 Redemption premium on Senior Notes and Senior Discount Notes 19.7 Premium on purchase of Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 1.4 Other interest 1.3 1.3 Interest payable and similar charges 135.1 166.0 c Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 6.6 4.4 Total interest payable and similar charges 128.5 161.6 d Bank interest receivable and other interest 1.3 1.6 Net discount on purchase of Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 0.1 Pension and post-retirement liability finance gains 0.1 Total interest receivable and similar income 1.4 1.7 Net interest payable 127.1 159.9 a 2010 includes US$8.9m non-recurring items in connection with the Stratos re nancing.
This consists of the write-off of unamortised issue costs of US$1.9m and US$3.9m in relation to the repayment of the Stratos Senior Credit Facility and the redemption of the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes, respectively, as well as the recognition of the net redemption premium of US$3.1m in respect of the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes see note 19. b 2009 includes US$9.6m of unamortised debt issue costs which were written off in relation to the cancellation of the previous Senior Credit Facility and redemption of the Senior Notes due 2012 and Senior Discount Notes see note 19. c Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditure on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 7.33% 2009: 8.63%.
d 2009 includes US$0.5m of unamortised premium which was recorded on the redemption of the Senior Notes due 2012 see note 19.
Income tax Income tax expense recognised in the Income Statement: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Current tax expense: Current year 66.6 30.4 Adjustments in respect of prior periods Other 10.7 0.5 Total current tax expense 55.9 30.9 Deferred tax expense: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Other temporary differences 20.1 14.7 Adjustment due to reduction in the Corporation Tax rate from 28% to 27% 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 2.8 1.5 Total deferred tax expense 16.5 13.2 Total income tax expense 72.4 44.1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Reconciliation of effective tax rate: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Pro t before tax 333.5 196.9 Income tax at 28% 93.4 55.1 Differences in overseas tax rates 3.4 0.9 Adjustments in respect of prior periods Other 13.5 0.9 Effect of the reduction in the Corporation Tax rate from 28% to 27% on: current year movement in deferred tax 0.8 Impact of current and prior year losses 0.8 2.3 a b Other non-deductible expenses non taxable income 10.9 6.9 Total income tax expense 72.4 44.1 a In 2009, includes a tax credit of US$8.8m arising from the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to unutilised capital allowances in Stratos UK entities.
These unutilised allowances were not recognised as separate identi able assets as part of the accounting for the purchase of Stratos.
We believe that the Group will be able to utilise these capital allowances in offsetting future taxable pro ts of the Groups UK entities.
b In 2010, includes a non-recurring tax credit of US$7.0m.
Tax credited charged to equity: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Current tax credit on share options 0.4 0.2 Deferred tax credit on share options 1.0 1.6 Deferred tax credit charge relating to gains on cash ow hedges 4.1 12.5 Deferred tax charge credit on actuarial gains and losses from pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts 2.6 5.3 Total tax credited charged to equity 2.9 5.4 11.
Net foreign exchange gains US$ in millions 2010 2009 Pension and post-retirement liability note 28 1.6 2.8 Other operating costs 0.7 8.6 Total foreign exchange gains 0.9 5.8 12.
Dividends The dividends paid in 2010 were US$64.3m 14.00 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$94.7m 20.63 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2010 interim dividend and the 2009 second interim dividend, respectively.
Dividends paid in 2009 were US$$58.4m 12.73 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$83.4m 18.20 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2009 interim dividend and the 2008 final dividend, respectively.
A final dividend for the 2010 financial year of 22.69 cents US$ per ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of US$104.5m, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2011.
In accordance with IAS 37, these financial statements do not re ect this final dividend payable.
US$ in cents 2010 2009 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 14.00 12.73 Final dividend per ordinary share 2009: second interim dividend per ordinary share 22.69 20.63 Total dividend per ordinary share 36.69 33.36 78 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
The space segment asset lives range from 5 to 15 years.
The first, second and third of the Inmarsat-4 satellites were placed into service during the 2005, 2006 and 2009 financial years, respectively, and are being depreciated over 15 years.
At 31 December 2010 and 2009, freehold land and buildings for Inmarsat Global were carried at cost less accumulated depreciation US$nil.
Had the freehold land and buildings been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2010 would have been US$14.1m based on the 31 December 2010 exchange rate between the US dollar and Pounds Sterling of US$1.57 1.00 2009: US$4.8m.
The Directors determined the market valuation.
In 2010 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2010 were US$6.8m 2009: US$22.8m.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
b During 2009, we recorded a US$8.8m adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill following the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to unutilised capital allowances arising in Stratos UK entities.
Although these unutilised capital allowances were acquired as part of the acquisition of Stratos, in line with IFRS 3 2004, Business Combinations, they were not recognised as an identi able asset in determining goodwill that resulted from that acquisition.
We now believe that the Group will be able to utilise these capital allowances in offsetting future taxable pro ts of the Groups UK entities and have therefore accounted for the bene t as an adjustment to goodwill in line with IAS 12, Income Taxes.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses see note 4 a.
Trademarks and patents are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives of trademarks are between 10 and 20 years.
The estimated useful life of patents is 7 years.
The software capitalised relates to the Groups BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 5 to 7 years.
Internally developed technology acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 5 years.
All other software is amortised on a straight-line basis, over 3 to 5 years.
User terminal development costs directly relating to the development of the user terminals for the BGAN and GSPS services are capitalised as intangible xed assets.
User terminals are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is 5 to 10 years.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with Stratos and Segovia are being amortised over the expected period of bene t of 12 and 14 years, respectively using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights relate to the acquisition of ACeS and Stratos.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the ACeS collaboration are being amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of 4 years.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos are being amortised over their useful lives of 3 to 10 years.
Intellectual property relates to the acquisition of ACeS and is now fully amortised.
80 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Investments As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Investments held at cost: SkyWave 23.5 23.5 Total investments held at cost 23.5 23.5 Interest in associates: Navarino 6.7 6.8 JSAT Mobile 0.6 0.7 Total interest in associates 7.3 7.5 Total investments 30.8 31.0 In July 2009, we acquired a stake of approximately 19% in the privately held SkyWave for an initial cash consideration of US$10.0m and deferred consideration of US$11.5m consisting of deferred airtime credits.
The ownership in SkyWave has been recorded at cost, including capitalised transaction costs.
The Group, through Stratos, owns a 49% ownership interest in Navarino Telecom SA and NTS Maritime Limited together, Navarino.
Cash dividends received for the year ended 31 December 2010 totalled US$1.4m 2009: US$0.8m.
Stratos owns 26.67% of JSAT Mobile Communications Inc. and the interest has been treated as an associate using the equity method of accounting.
The aggregated assets, liabilities, revenue and pro t of associates are deemed to be immaterial for reporting purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Cash at bank and in hand 73.5 105.8 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 270.3 121.0 Cash and cash equivalents 343.8 226.8 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 343.8 226.8 Bank overdrafts note 19 0.3 0.5 Net cash and cash equivalents 343.5 226.3 17.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Current: Trade receivables 184.6 166.8 Other receivables 18.4 9.4 Other prepayments and accrued income 52.2 51.3 255.2 227.5 As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Non-current: Other prepayments and accrued income 5.2 1.5 5.2 1.5 The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Finished goods 19.4 8.2 Work in progress 0.8 1.3 20.2 9.5 The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
Borrowings Effective As at As at interest 31 December 31 December a US$ in millions rate % 2010 2009 Current: Bank overdrafts 1.8 0.3 0.5 b Deferred satellite payments 7.0 8.3 9.3 c Senior Credit Facility 2.54 50.0 90.0 d Stratos Senior Credit Facility 9.6 Total current borrowings 58.6 109.4 Non-current: b Deferred satellite payments 7.0 32.5 38.1 c Senior Credit Facility 2.54 143.9 189.4 e Senior Notes due 2017 7.375 639.2 637.5 Issuance discount 4.2 4.8 f EIB Facility 1.65 305.8 g Convertible Bond 9.88 282.6 261.3 Accretion of principal 2.5 2.3 d Stratos Senior Credit Facility 197.3 h Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 82.4 Total non-current borrowings 1,402.3 1,403.5 Total borrowings 1,460.9 1,512.9 a The effective interest rates do not include the impact of the Groups interest rate hedging policy.
b Deferred satellite payments represent amounts payable to satellite manufacturers which become payable annually depending on the continued successful performance of the satellite.
The gross amounts of the deferred satellite payments have been discounted to net present value at 7%.
c On 6 November 2009, we drew down on our US$500.0m Senior Credit Facility.
The facility consists of a US$200.0m Term Loan and a US$300.0m Revolving Credit Facility.
The Senior Credit Facility will mature in May 2012.
Advances under the Senior Credit Facility bear interest equal to 3-month USD LIBOR, plus an applicable margin of between 2.00% and 3.00% determined by reference to the ratio of total net debt to EBITDA.
During the year we repaid US$90.0m of the revolving portion of the Senior Credit Facility.
In addition, US$50.0m of the Senior Credit Facility was transferred from non-current to current in the year.
d On 10 May 2010 we pre-paid and cancelled the outstanding amount under the Stratos Senior Credit Facility of US$207.0m and wrote-off unamortised costs in relation to the facility of US$1.9m.
e On 12 November 2009, we issued US$650.0m aggregate principal amount of 7.375% Senior Notes due 1 December 2017 Senior Notes due 2017.
The aggregate gross proceeds were US$645.2m, net of US$4.8m issuance discount and we capitalised US$12.5m of issuance costs.
f On 15 April 2010, we signed an 8-year facility agreement from the European Investment Bank the EIB Facility.
Under the agreement, we were able to borrow up to 225m at any time before 23 December 2010.
The facility was available in Euros and US dollars.
An initial draw-down of US$180.0m was made on 30 April 2010 and a final draw-down of US$128.4m was made on 28 October 2010.
This facility matures on 30 April 2018 and is repayable in equal annual instalments beginning 30 April 2012.
Interest is equal to 3-month USD LIBOR plus a margin payable in April, July, October and January each year.
g On 16 November 2007, we issued US$287.7m in principal amount of 1.75% convertible bonds due 2017 the Convertible Bond.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.50%.
The bonds have an initial conversion premium of 32.5% over the reference share price of 4.6193 representing approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital.
The initial conversion price is US$12.694 and the total number of common shares to be issued if all bonds are converted is 22.7m shares.
The Company will have an option to call the bonds after 7 years at their accreted principal amount under certain circumstances.
In addition, the holder of each bond will have the right to require the Issuer to redeem such bond at its accreted principal amount at years 5 and 7.
82 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond was split into a liability component of US$224.3m and an equity component of US$56.9m.
The equity component represents the fair value of the option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, as follows: US$ in millions Fair value of convertible bonds issued 287.7 Cost of issue 6.5 Net proceeds 281.2 1 Equity component 56.9 2 Liability component at date of issue 224.3 Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2009 48.3 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2009 1.6 Cumulative coupon interest accrued to 31 December 2009 10.6 Liability component at 31 December 2009 263.6 Interest charged 25.5 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.0 Coupon interest accrued 5.0 Liability component at 31 December 2010 285.1 1 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$1.3m.
2 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$5.2m.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.88% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of US$5.0m and accreted interest of US$20.5m.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
h On 2 June 2010 we redeemed the entire principal amount of US$150.0m outstanding under the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes US$62.4m, net of US$87.6m Senior Unsecured Notes held by the Group at the date of redemption and paid the associated net note redemption premium of US$3.1m.
In addition, we wrote-off US$3.9m in respect of unamortised debt issue costs in relation to the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes.
These balances are shown net of unamortised deferred finance costs, which have been allocated as follows: As at 31 December 2010 As at 31 December 2009 Deferred Deferred finance finance US$ in millions Amount cost Net balance Amount cost Net balance Senior Credit Facility 200.0 6.1 193.9 290.0 10.6 279.4 EIB Facility 308.4 2.6 305.8 Senior Notes due 2017 650.0 10.8 639.2 650.0 12.5 637.5 Issuance discount 4.2 4.2 4.8 4.8 Deferred satellite payments 40.8 40.8 47.4 47.4 Convertible Bonds 285.2 2.6 282.6 264.9 3.6 261.3 Accretion of interest on the principal 2.5 2.5 2.3 2.3 Bank overdrafts 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Stratos Senior Credit Facilities 209.2 2.3 206.9 Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 86.8 4.4 82.4 Total Borrowings 1,483.0 22.1 1,460.9 1,546.3 33.4 1,512.9 The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Between one and two years 477.2 50.1 Between two and five years 144.6 702.4 After five years 780.5 651.0 1,402.3 1,403.5 The borrowings of the Group are mostly at xed rates.
The Senior Notes due 2017 and Convertible Bonds are at xed rates.
The Group has a US$300.0m Revolving Credit Facility that has no restrictions and as at 31 December 2010 was drawn down by US$nil 2009: US$90.0m.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED At 31 December 2009, Stratos had in place a US$10.0m Revolving Operating Facility which was undrawn: this was subsequently cancelled in the year ending 31 December 2010.
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes due 2017 and Convertible Bonds to approximate to their fair value see note 32.
The effective interest rates, excluding the impact of the Groups interest rate hedging policy, at the balance sheet dates were as follows: Effective interest rate % 2010 2009 Bank overdrafts 1.8 1.8 Senior Credit Facility 2.54 2.78 EIB Facility 1.65 Senior Notes due 2017 7.375 7.375 Deferred satellite payments 7.0 7.0 Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88 Stratos Senior Credit Facilities 2.75 Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 9.875 20.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Current: Trade payables 100.5 96.4 ACeS deferred consideration 0.5 2.9 SkyWave deferred consideration note 15 6.1 2.3 Other taxation and social security payables 2.7 2.9 Other creditors 15.5 24.1 Other short-term deferred consideration 13.2 a Accruals and deferred income 210.1 77.5 348.6 206.1 a As at 31 December 2010, includes US$135.0m 2009: US$31.3m of deferred income relating to payments received from LightSquared LP, Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. together LightSquared in connection with an agreement for L-band operations in North America.
During 2010 we released US$17.5m to the income statement to re ect revenue earned, based on the percentage of completion method 2009: US$nil.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Non-current: SkyWave deferred consideration note 15 4.0 9.7 Other long-term deferred consideration 32.2 Other payables 22.1 17.9 58.3 27.6 The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
84 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Provisions Asset Other retirement US$ in millions provision obligations Total Current: As at 1 January 2009 Charged to provision in respect of current year 1.8 1.8 Utilised in current year 1.3 1.3 Asset retirement obligation transferred from non-current liability 0.4 0.4 As at 31 December 2009 0.5 0.4 0.9 Utilised in current year 0.4 0.4 0.8 Asset retirement obligation transferred from non-current liability 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 2010 0.1 0.3 0.4 Postretirement Asset healthcare retirement Other US$ in millions bene ts Pension obligations provisions Total Non-current: As at 1 January 2009 19.8 11.7 3.4 0.9 35.8 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 4.4 1.8 0.3 0.2 6.7 Charged directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 9.3 12.1 21.4 Contributions paid 6.4 6.4 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.1 0.6 1.0 Revision in estimated cash ows and timing of settlement 0.3 0.3 Transfer to current liability 0.4 0.4 As at 31 December 2009 33.2 19.2 2.9 0.5 55.8 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 1.7 1.4 0.3 0.2 3.6 Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 4.8 5.1 9.9 Contributions paid 5.4 5.4 Utilised in current year 0.3 1.0 0.1 0.1 1.5 Revision in estimated cash ows and timing of settlement 0.2 0.2 Transfer to current liability 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 2010 29.8 9.1 3.0 0.6 42.5 Following the actuarial valuation of the Inmarsat Pension Plan the Plan as at 31 December 2008 see note 28, the trustee and the Company have agreed that additional contributions will be paid to the Plan.
It was agreed that 2.2m would be paid in November 2009 and 2.2m annually thereafter, up to and including November 2015.
During 2010, the Group made an additional cash contribution of US$3.5m 2009: US$3.6m to reduce the pension fide cit.
Asset retirement obligations have been recognised in respect of the expected costs of removal of equipment from leased premises by Stratos.
Other provisions in 2010 and 2009 relate to a legally required provision for eventual severance payments to employees based overseas.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities The current income tax liability of US$46.8m 2009: US$34.0m represents the income tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
Recognised deferred income tax assets and liabilities The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same scal authority.
As at 31 December 2010 As at 31 December 2009 US$ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 113.6 113.6 2.6 108.8 106.2 Other 12.2 9.6 2.6 10.5 3.8 6.7 Pension asset 8.5 8.5 12.7 12.7 Share options 6.5 6.5 5.5 5.5 Loss carry forwards 10.7 10.7 10.0 10.0 Net deferred income tax liabilities 37.9 123.2 85.3 41.3 112.6 71.3 Movement in temporary differences during the year: As at As at 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2010 in income in equity 2010 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 106.2 7.4 113.6 Other 6.7 8.2 4.1 2.6 Pension asset 12.7 1.6 2.6 8.5 Share options 5.5 1.0 6.5 Loss carry forwards 10.0 0.7 10.7 Total 71.3 16.5 2.5 85.3 As at As at 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2009 in income in equity 2009 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 100.5 5.7 106.2 Other 20.0 0.8 12.5 6.7 Pension asset 6.7 0.7 5.3 12.7 Share options 2.9 1.0 1.6 5.5 Loss carry forwards 18.4 8.4 10.0 Total 52.5 13.2 5.6 71.3 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Temporary timing differences 4.1 5.2 Unused income tax losses 4.3 2.5 Unused capital losses 33.0 35.8 Total 41.4 43.5 Overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 will be largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised deferred tax liability in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is US$3.6m 2009: US$2.7m.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that this will not take place in the foreseeable future.
86 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating pro t to net cash in ow from operating activities: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Pro t for the year 261.1 152.8 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 234.6 231.6 Income tax charge 72.4 44.1 Interest payable 128.5 161.6 Interest receivable 1.4 1.7 Non-cash employee bene t costs 14.6 23.2 Forward exchange contracts 0.5 8.5 Share of results of associates, net of dividends received 0.3 0.1 Gain on disposal of xed assets 2.1 Acquisition-related adjustments 2.1 8.8 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 0.2 0.6 Changes in net working capital: Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 20.9 23.6 Increase decrease in inventories 9.1 10.2 a Increase in trade and other payables 106.1 5.9 Decrease in provisions 3.2 4.2 Cash generated from operations 785.8 645.8 a The increase is due primarily due to deferred revenue recognised in respect of payments received from LightSquared see note 20.
Share capital As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2009: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 460,607,047 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2009: 459,554,882 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31 December 2010, a total of 1,052,165 2009: 506,234 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 87 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Employee share options and awards In line with IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, the Group recognised US$11.4m 2009: US$10.8m in total share compensation costs across all its share plans for the 2010 financial year.
Total share-based compensation costs are recognised over the vesting period of the options and share awards ranging from one to four years.
In November 2004, the Company adopted the Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan making awards in November 2004, January and May 2005.
All options granted under the 2004 Plan and held by optionholders have now vested and are exercisable.
Whenever options are exercised under the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a fide minimis charge of 1 for each tranche of options exercised.
The options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Shares are transferred to the optionholders from the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Guernsey.
No new shares have been issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
A summary of share activity within the Trust and options outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31 December 2010 is as follows: Weighted average exercise Shares available Options price per for grant outstanding option Balance at 1 January 2009 1,022,158 188,961 3.75 Exercised 25,787 5.64 Exercise re International Sharesave Plan 1,922 Adjustment 4,942 Balance at 31 December 2009 1,015,294 163,174 3.67 Market purchase of shares 11 March 2010 125,000 Subscription for International Share Incentive Plan 43,936 Exercised 60,044 7.24 Exercise re International Sharesave Plan 823 Exercise re International Share Incentive Plan 12,627 Balance at 31 December 2010 1,170,780 103,130 3.71 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 103,130 Exercise Price per tranche 1.00 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 31 December 2010 is 4 years.
The Company also operates a Bonus Share Plan BSP.
Awards have been made regularly under the BSP to the Executive Directors and certain members of senior management and details of the awards made in 2010 are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSP are non-market based performance conditions.
Dividends will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Details of the operation of the BSP can be found in the Remuneration Report.
The rules of the BSP provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is the intention, however, of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSP provides free share awards with no market-based performance conditions attached, and which carry an entitlement to dividends paid in cash or shares during the vesting period, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded will not change.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP and regular annual awards are made to the Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Details of awards made under the PSP in 2010 are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid during the vesting period in the form of cash or additional shares.
The PSP shares will not normally be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon the performance conditions being satis ed over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSP provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is the intention, however, of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three year period unless a participant leaves and is entitled under the Rules to receive a proportionate award and the performance condition has been met.
Details of the operation of the PSP can be found in the Remuneration Report.
88 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The performance conditions for the PSP are based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts and a non-market based condition, based on EBITDA measured over a three year period.
The vesting schedule for PSP awards is structured so that the shape of the vesting schedule is determined by both TSR and EBITDA performance.
The market based performance condition has been incorporated into the valuation.
The fair value of the allocation and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Performance Share Plan 19 March 20 March 14 May 26 March Grant date 2008 2009 2009 2010 Grant price 4.39 4.57 5.35 7.905 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% 0% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 28.5% 34.9% 36.2% 35.7% Fair value per share option 2.40 3.21 3.30 5.62 Both the BSP and PSP share awards expire 10 years after date of grant.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for both the BSP and PSP share awards at 31 December 2010 is 7.4 and 6.5 years respectively.
In September 2007 the Remuneration Committee made the Chief Executive Of cer an exceptional award of one million incentive shares conditional upon the delivery of signi cant share price growth.
The mid-market closing share price on 27 September 2007 was 4.49 per share.
On 1 October 2009, at the request of the Nominations Committee on behalf of the Inmarsat plc Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Of cer agreed to extend his term as Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer to 30 September 2011 and then remain in the role of Chairman for a period of not less than one year.
The Remuneration Committee also agreed changes on the same date to the existing CEO Award.
No shares will be earned unless, by 30 September 2012, the share price reaches a minimum price of 5.50.
For performance above this level, shares will be earned pro rata up to a share price of 7.25 at which the full award will be earned.
A further award over 700,000 shares could be earned if, at the time that performance is assessed, the share price has reached 9.25.
If the share price is below 7.25, none of the additional shares would be earned and if between 7.25 and 9.25, shares would be earned pro rata up to a share price of 9.25.
The share price performance condition will be assessed on the basis of the average closing price of Inmarsat shares over the last 60 days of the performance period.
Additional shares will accrue representing the value of dividends paid during the performance period on the number of shares that ultimately vest.
There is no material change in the incremental fair value granted due to the above modi cations.
The Remuneration Committee anticipates that if an award of shares is made to Mr Sukawaty, then the share price performance will have out-performed the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts.
However, in the event that this is not the case, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to scale back the award of shares by up to 50% of the proposed share award.
An announcement was made on 16 December 2009 relating to a deferred share bonus award of 125,000 shares to the Chief Executive Of cer.
The mid-market closing share price on 15 December 2009 was 6.59 per share.
The performance condition of EBITDA growth related to the 2010 financial year has been satis ed: therefore the shares will vest in September 2012.
CEO Deferred Share Bonus CEO Award Award 28 September 16 December Grant date 2007 2009 Grant price 4.49 6.59 Exercise price nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years Expected correlation between any pair of shares in PSP comparator group n a n a Volatility 28% n a Fair value per share option 2.65 6.59 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for both the CEO Award and CEO Deferred Share Bonus Award at 31 December 2010 is 6.7 and 9.0 years respectively.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Company also operates a UK Sharesave Scheme.
The Sharesave Scheme is an HM Revenue & Customs approved scheme open to all UK PAYE-paying permanent employees.
The maximum that can be saved each month by an employee is 250 and savings plus interest may be used to acquire shares by exercising the related option at the end of the three year savings contract.
Options are exercisable for a period of up to six months following the end of the three-year savings contract and under certain circumstances if an employee leaves the Inmarsat group.
No dividends are accumulated on options during the vesting period.
Newly issued shares will be used to satisfy the options.
Two grants have been made so far: the first grant matured on 1 September 2008.
A second grant was made in December 2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share re ecting the maximum discount permitted of 20%.
The Company also operates an International Sharesave Plan which mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
However, instead of receiving a share option, participants receive the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares only some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
A second grant under the International Sharesave Plan was made in December 2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2010 is 1.5 years for each plan.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan have been valued using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: Sharesave Sharesave Scheme Plan UK International 15 December 15 December Grant date 2008 2008 Market price at date of Grant 4.44 4.44 Exercise price 3.06 3.06 Bad leaver rate 3%pa 3%pa Vesting period 3 years 3 years Volatility 33.2% 33.2% Dividend yield assumption 3.36% 3.36% Risk free interest rate 2.46% 2.46% Fair value per option 1.50 1.50 The historical volatility is based on the constituents of the FTSE 350 Telecoms Service Index, which was measured over three years to each of the grant dates.
The volatility assumption used for each of the awards is based on median volatility for the constituents of the sector.
Several awards have been made under the UK Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP is an HM Revenue & Customs approved plan open to all UK PAYE employees and operates in conjunction with a UK tax-resident trust which holds shares on behalf of participating employees.
Under the SIP, the Company can award Free Shares up to a maximum value of 3,000 to employees.
Employees can also acquire Partnership Shares from their salary up to a maximum of 1,500 per annum and the Company will match this with up to two free Matching Shares per Partnership Share equivalent to a maximum value of 3,000 per annum.
Details of the SIP award made in 2010 are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Arrangements were put in place for eligible overseas employees to replicate the awards made under the SIP as closely as possible.
The same market values per ordinary share were used as for the SIP for each award.
90 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A summary of share awards and option activity as at 31 December 2010 excluding the 2004 Plan which is noted previously is as follows: SIP CEO SIP Intl and Share Sharesave Sharesave a UK Unapproved BSP Plans PSP UK International Total Balance at 31 December 2009 505,364 12,010 1,361,511 1,125,000 867,896 799,161 158,860 4,829,802 Granted Allocated 316,676 43,936 564,576 272,403 1,197,591 Lapsed 2,800 29,834 32,634 Exercised 2,663 823 3,486 Transferred Sold 39,986 12,627 567,655 121,235 741,503 Balance at 31 December 2010 779,254 43,319 1,358,432 1,125,000 1,019,064 766,664 158,037 5,249,770 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 Exercise Price per share n a n a nil nil nil b c n a a The CEO Share Plans comprises i the CEO Award of one million shares, where as described previously, a further award over 700,000 shares could be earned if the share price has reached 9.25 per share: and ii the CEO Deferred Share Bonus Award of 125,000 shares.
b The second grant under the UK Sharesave scheme in 2008 has an exercise price of 3.06.
The weighted average exercise price at 31 December 2010 was 3.06 per share 31 December 2009: 3.06 per share.
The weighted average exercise price of options exercised during the year as 3.06 per share.
c The second grant under the International Sharesave plan in 2008 has an exercise price of 3.06.
Reserves Cash ow hedge reserve: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Balance as at 1 January 2.6 34.1 Gain loss recognised on cash ow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 0.8 15.8 Interest rate swaps 0.2 1.8 Fx movement through cash ow hedge reserve 0.1 3.0 Income tax charged directly to equity 3.2 a Reclassi ed to the Income Statement Forward exchange contracts 7.9 27.6 Interest rate swaps 11.1 Fx movement through cash ow hedge reserve 1.3 5.9 Income tax credited charged related to amounts transferred to the Income Statement 4.1 9.3 b Reclassi ed and capitalised on the Balance Sheet Forward exchange contracts 3.5 0.2 Fx movement through cash ow hedge reserve 0.6 Balance as at 31 December 7.5 2.6 The cash ow hedge reserve represents hedging gains and losses recognised on the effective portion of cash ow hedges.
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the Income Statement or capitalised on the Balance Sheet when the hedged transactions impacts the Income Statement Balance Sheet.
a Gains and losses reclassi ed from equity into the Income Statement during the period are included in the following Income Statement lines: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Total net operating costs 6.6 21.7 Interest payable and similar charges 11.1 Income tax expense credit 4.1 9.3 Total reclassi ed credited charged to the Income Statement in the year 2.5 23.5 b Gains and losses reclassi ed from equity and capitalised on the Balance Sheet during the period are included in the following Balance Sheet lines: US$ in millions 2010 2009 Property, plant and equipment 2.9 0.2 Total reclassi ed and capitalised on the Balance Sheet in the year 2.9 0.2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated as cancelled, and after taking account of the restructuring of the existing share capital.
2010 2009 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 260.9 152.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 460,148,337 459,189,778 Basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.57 0.33 Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the pro t attributable to equity holders for the interest on the Convertible Bonds net of tax and by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Currently the underlying shares in relation to our Convertible Bonds outstanding and the Share options and awards in relation to employee share plans are the only categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the Convertible Bonds the weighted average of the maximum number of ordinary shares, assuming full conversion, is included in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares.
For employee share options and awards a calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards and value of related future employee services.
2010 2009 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 260.9 152.7 Adjustments for: Interest on Convertible Bonds, net of tax 18.4 17.1 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 279.3 169.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 460,148,337 459,189,778 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,170,140 4,096,264 Convertible Bonds number 22,664,251 22,664,251 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 486,982,728 485,950,293 Diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.57 0.35 2009 Adjusted earnings per share The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2009 were adjusted to exclude the after tax effect of the one-off costs of US$28.8m in relation to the re nancing of our previous debt facilities, see note 9, the goodwill adjustment of US$8.8m and the associated tax credit of US$8.8m see notes 10 and 14.
Adjusted basic earnings per share 2009 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 152.7 Adjustments for: One-off renancing costs, net of tax US$ in millions 20.7 Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 Tax credit relating to Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 Adjusted pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 173.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 459,189,778 Adjusted basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.38 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 2009 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 169.8 Adjustments for: One-off renancing costs, net of tax US$ in millions 20.7 Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 Tax credit relating to Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 Adjusted pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 190.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 459,189,778 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,096,264 Convertible Bonds number 22,664,251 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 4 85,950,293 Adjusted diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.39 92 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare bene ts Inmarsat Global provides both pension fund arrangements and post-retirement medical bene ts for its employees.
Inmarsat Global operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The UK scheme has two plans: a fide ned bene t scheme, which is closed to new employees, and a fide ned contribution plan.
The fide ned bene t scheme is funded and its assets are held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee.
The fide ned bene t plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the formal valuation undertaken by professionally quali ed and independent actuaries, Towers Watson Limited, as at 31 December 2008.
The actuarial valuation of the liabilities of the scheme at that date, net of assets, was US$17.3m.
The results of the valuation have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31 December 2010.
The results of this updated valuation as at 31 December 2010, for the purposes of the additional disclosures required by IAS 19, are set out below.
The post-retirement healthcare bene ts are the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare bene t plans.
The plan is self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing retiree healthcare is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee group.
Membership of this plan is multi-national, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
Both the fide ned bene t pension plan and the post-retirement healthcare bene ts plan are denominated in Pounds Sterling and are subject to uctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and Pounds Sterling.
Stratos provides pension fund arrangements for its employees and operates schemes in each of its principal locations, the majority of which are fide ned contribution pension plans.
As part of a previous acquisition, Stratos assumed fide ned bene t pension plans administered by KPN for employees in the Netherlands.
The assets of these plans were not segregated from the assets of other KPN administered plans and therefore they were treated as multi-employer plans and were accounted for in the same manner as fide ned contribution plans.
This arrangement expired on 31 December 2009, at which point all existing and new employees began to accrue bene ts under the new Stratos fide ned bene t plan the Stratos DB Plan.
As per the arrangement with the Netherlands Works Council and KPN, all bene ts accrued to employees under the KPN plan will remain within the KPN plan, with all future bene ts accruing after 31 December 2009 recognised in the Stratos DB Plan.
The Stratos DB Plan is a hybrid plan, meaning that it has a fide ned bene t component and a fide ned contribution component.
Employees earn bene ts up to a maximum salary, after which Stratos will contribute a percentage of salary to the fide ned contribution component of the plan.
Also as part of a previous acquisition, Stratos assumed an early retirement plan in the Netherlands.
This is a fide ned bene t plan that is neither funded nor insured through a third party, but is paid directly to employees upon early retirement.
Stratos recognises a provision for all bene ts that will become a payment obligation in accordance with the then prevailing collective labour agreement.
Stratos fide ned bene t pension plans are denominated in Euros and subject to uctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and the Euro.
The fide ned bene t plan and unfunded early retirement plan were valued using the projected unit credit method with the formal valuation undertaken by professionally quali ed and independent actuaries Lnbb actuarissen pensioenconsultants as at 31 December 2010.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate Inmarsat Globals pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities under IAS 19 are: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.50% 5.50% Expected return on plan assets 7.80% 7.77% Future salary increases 5.50% 5.60% Medical cost trend rate 7.75% 7.85% Future pension increases 3.75% 3.85% ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate Stratos pension bene t liabilities under IAS 19 are: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Discount rate 2.70-5.00% 1.70-3.80% Future salary increases 2.00% 1.50-2.00% Future pension increases 0.00-1.50% 0.00-1.80% The mortality assumption has been updated to re ect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for Inmarsat Globals pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities are as follows: 2010 2009 Number Number of years of years Male current age 65 87.5 87.4 Female current age 65 90.4 90.3 For 2010 and 2009, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS Series 1 Normal Health tables, with long cohort improvements from 2003 based on year of birth, subject to minimum funding improvements of 1% per annum.
Mortality rates for the new Stratos DB Plan for a male and female currently aged 65 are 84.6 and 87.5 years respectively.
These mortality rates are based on the mortality tables GBM V 2010-2060, published by the Dutch Actuarial Association.
These tables include a best estimate of the mortality trend up to 2060: no age set back has been applied.
For the Stratos unfunded early retirement plan the payment of supplementary old age pension will end on the last day of the month prior to the month in which the employee reaches the age of 65 or on the last day of the month in which the employee deceases.
The assets held in respect of the Inmarsat Globals and Stratos fide ned bene t scheme and the expected rates of return were: As at 31 December 2010 Long-term Percentage rate of return Value of total expected US$ in plan assets % millions % Equities 8.05% 52.2 79.82% Cash 5.00% 0.4 0.61% Bonds 4.90% 11.0 16.82% Other 6.15% 1.8 2.75% Fair value of scheme assets 65.4 As at 31 December 2009 Long-term Percentage rate of return Value of total expected US$ in plan assets % millions % Equities 8.15% 46.8 86.99% Cash 4.75% Bonds 5.00% 5.3 9.85% Other 6.30% 1.7 3.16% Fair value of scheme assets 53.8 Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Present value of Inmarsat Globals funded fide ned bene t obligations pension 70.4 68.6 Present value of Inmarsat Globals unfunded fide ned bene t obligations post-retirement healthcare 29.8 33.2 Present value of Stratos unfunded fide ned bene t obligations pension 4.1 4.4 Fair value of Inmarsat Globals fide ned bene t assets 65.0 53.8 Fair value of Stratos fide ned bene t assets 0.4 Net fide ned bene t liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 38.9 52.4 94 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Analysis of the movement in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations is as follows: Inmarsat Stratos Global fide ned Postfide ned bene t bene t retirement pension pension medical US$ in millions plan plans bene ts At 1 January 2009 41.9 4.8 19.8 Current service cost 1.1 0.1 0.8 Interest cost 3.4 0.1 1.6 Actuarial loss 17.4 0.5 9.3 Foreign exchange loss gain 4.0 0.1 2.0 Bene ts paid 0.2 1.0 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.0 At 31 December 2009 68.6 4.4 33.2 Current service cost 1.4 0.8 1.0 Interest cost 3.5 0.2 1.7 Actuarial gain 2.2 4.8 Foreign exchange gain 1.8 0.3 1.0 Bene ts paid 0.2 1.0 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.1 At 31 December 2010 70.4 4.1 29.8 Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the fide ned bene t pension plans are as follows: Inmarsat US$ in millions Global Stratos At 1 January 2009 35.0 Expected return on plan assets 3.7 Actuarial gain 5.8 Contributions by employer 5.4 Contributions by pension participants 1.0 Bene ts paid 0.2 Foreign exchange gain 3.1 At 31 December 2009 53.8 Expected return on plan assets 4.0 0.1 Actuarial gain 2.9 Contributions by employer 4.9 0.5 Contributions by pension participants 1.1 Bene ts paid 0.2 Foreign exchange loss 1.5 At 31 December 2010 65.0 0.4 Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2010 2009 Inmarsat Stratos Inmarsat Stratos Global Defined PostGlobal fide ned PostDefined benefit retirement fide ned bene t retirement benefit pension healthcare bene t pension healthcare US$ in millions pension plan plans benefits pension plan plans bene ts Current service cost 1.4 0.8 1.0 1.1 0.1 0.8 Interest cost 3.5 0.2 1.7 3.4 0.1 1.6 Expected return on pension assets 4.0 0.1 3.7 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.3 0.3 1.0 0.9 0.1 2.0 0.6 0.8 1.7 1.7 0.1 4.4 Actual return on plan assets gain loss 6.9 0.1 10.5 Current services costs for 2010 are included within employee bene t costs note 7.
The net nancing costs together with foreign exchange losses are included within interest payable note 9.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 95 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2010 2009 Inmarsat Stratos Inmarsat Stratos Global Defined PostGlobal fide ned PostDefined benefit retirement fide ned bene t retirement benefit pension healthcare bene t pension healthcare US$ in millions pension plan plans benefits pension plan plans bene ts Net actuarial gains losses 5.1 4.8 11.6 0.5 9.3 The cumulative amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2010 2009 Inmarsat Stratos Inmarsat Stratos Global Defined PostGlobal fide ned PostDefined benefit retirement fide ned bene t retirement benefit pension healthcare bene t pension healthcare US$ in millions pension plan plans benefits pension plan plans bene ts Cumulative pre-tax actuarial losses gains 7.9 1.9 11.3 13.1 1.9 16.1 History of experience gains and losses: 2010 Inmarsat Global Stratos PostDefined Defined retirement benefit benefit healthcare US$ in millions pension plan pension plans benefits Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 70.4 4.1 29.8 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 65.0 0.4 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 5.4 3.7 29.8 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities US$ in millions 0.2 4.1 Percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 4.4% 13.9% Experience losses on plan assets US$ in millions 2.9 Percentage of plan assets 4.4% 2009 2008 Inmarsat Stratos Inmarsat Stratos Global Defined PostGlobal fide ned PostDefined benefit retirement fide ned bene t retirement benefit pension healthcare bene t pension healthcare US$ in millions pension plan plans benefits pension plan plans bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 68.6 4.4 33.2 41.9 4.8 19.8 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 53.8 35.0 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 14.8 4.4 33.2 6.9 4.8 19.8 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities US$ in millions 0.3 0.5 0.1 0.2 7.1 Percentage of plan liabilities 0.4% 11.4% 0.3% 0.0% 4.3% 35.9% Experience losses gains on plan assets US$ in millions 5.8 14.7 Percentage of plan assets 10.8% 42.0% 2007 2006 Inmarsat Stratos Inmarsat Global fide ned PostGlobal Postfide ned bene t retirement fide ned retirement bene t pension healthcare bene t healthcare pension plan plans bene ts pension plan bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 58.2 7.9 22.3 56.3 22.0 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 51.6 41.1 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 6.6 7.9 22.3 15.2 22.0 Experience gains on plan liabilities US$ in millions 0.3 3.4 0.3 Percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 0.0% 1.3% 6.0% 1.4% Experience gains on plan assets US$ in millions 0.3 0.2 Percentage of plan assets 0.6% 0.5% The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global fide ned bene t pension plan during 2011 are US$4.7m 2010: actual US$4.9m.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Stratos DB pension plans during 2011 are US$0.5m.
The healthcare cost trend rate assumption for Inmarsat Globals post-retirement healthcare bene ts has a signi cant effect on the amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the post-retirement medical bene ts.
Increasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have increased the post-retirement medical bene t obligation as of 31 December 2010 by US$8.0m 2009: US$9.5m and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost by US$0.8m 2009: US$0.7m.
Decreasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have reduced the post-retirement medical bene t obligation as of 31 December 2010 by US$6.0m 2009: US$7.0m, and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost by US$0.6m 2009: US$0.5m.
96 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
Acquisitions On 12 January 2010, we completed the acquisition of the business and assets of Segovia, Inc. Segovia for an initial consideration of US$110.0m, and may pay additional amounts depending on the performance of the acquired business over the three years following the acquisition.
Segovia is a leading provider of secure IP managed solutions and services to United States government agencies and other commercial customers.
We have acquired Segovia in order to strengthen our relationships with key government customers across land, maritime and aeronautical environments as well as to bring enhanced services to the government sector generally.
The management team that was in place before the acquisition continues to operate Segovia as a separate business.
The acquisition of Segovia has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3 2008, Business Combinations.
The consolidated results of the Group for 2010 include the financial results of Segovia for the period from 12 January 2010 to 31 December 2010.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the allocation of the purchase consideration was nalised.
As a result of this review, the Group recognised identi able intangible assets of US$113.7m refer to table below and goodwill of US$27.2m.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Qualitatively, goodwill represents among other factors, the assembled workforce, which is not separately identi ed as part of the purchase price allocation.
In addition, the Group believes that Segovias expertise in designing, deploying and operating mixed satellite and terrestrial networks, particularly in the government and military environment, will generate value for the Group through future customer relationships.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group recognised US$3.9m of transaction costs directly associated with the acquisition of Segovia as an expense in the Income Statement.
The allocation of the purchase consideration to the net assets and liabilities of Segovia, based on information up to 31 December 2010, is as follows: Fair value at Fair value acquisition US$ in millions Book value adjustments date Net assets acquired: a b Intangible assets 113.7 113.7 b Property, plant and equipment 3.3 3.3 Total non-current assets 3.3 113.7 117.0 c Restricted cash 6.0 6.0 d Trade and other receivables 12.9 12.9 Inventories 1.5 1.5 Total current assets 20.4 20.4 Trade and other payables 2.8 2.8 Deferred revenue 14.9 14.9 Total liabilities 17.7 17.7 Identi able net assets 6.0 113.7 119.7 Allocated purchase consideration: Cash consideration 110.0 e Contingent consideration 36.9 Total allocated purchase consideration 146.9 f Goodwill recognised 27.2 a The increase in intangible assets consists of US$108.9m of customer relationships and US$4.8m in relation to the Segovia trade name, which are to be amortised over their useful lives of fourteen and ten years respectively.
b Includes US$0.3m software which has subsequently been reclassi ed from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets.
c Restricted cash relates to cash received from customers for the advance payment of services.
d The book value of trade receivables of US$11.1m, included within trade and other receivables, approximates to their fair value and the entire balance is deemed collectable.
e The contingent consideration arrangement requires Inmarsat to pay the former owners of Segovia an amount in respect of each of the calendar years ending 31 December 2010, 2011 and 2012 the Earn-Out Payments, subject to Segovia achieving certain speci ed EBITDA and Capital Expenditure targets.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future Earn-Out Payments that Inmarsat could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between US$nil and US$139.0m.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of US$36.9m is based on the probability-adjusted Earn-Out Payments and the application of a discount rate of 14.0%.
f The total goodwill recognised of US$27.2m is deductible for tax purposes over a fifteen-year period.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 97 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The contingent consideration element relating to 2010 is estimated at US$13.0m.
We accounted for US$10.9m of the contingent consideration as part of the initial purchase accounting, with the additional US$2.1m being recorded directly in the Income Statement in 2010.
This additional contingent consideration arose due to better than expected performance in 2010 and has been recorded directly in the income statement in line with IFRS 3 2008.
The revenue included in the Income Statement for 2010, contributed by Segovia since the acquisition date, was US$84.3m.
Segovia also contributed a pro t after tax of US$10.3m during 2010.
Given the close proximity of the acquisition date to the beginning of the year, Segovias contribution to the Income Statement, assuming the transaction had occurred on 1 January 2010, would not be materially different from their actual contribution from the date of acquisition.
Operating lease and other commitments The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Within one year 43.0 22.8 Within two to five years 60.3 57.3 After five years 92.9 106.9 196.2 187.0 Operating lease commitments relate to leased of ce space, primarily of the Groups head of ce located at 99 City Road, London, and various non-cancellable network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
In addition the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Within one year 35.1 10.4 Within two to five years 20.2 10.0 55.3 20.4 The total of future sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub leases at 31 December 2010 relating to the above head of ce lease is US$6.8m over five years as at 31 December 2009: US$1.1m over one year.
The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity charges.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms.
The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received including Inmarsat Global and Stratos but excluding intragroup amounts are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Within one year 85.2 58.6 Within two to five years 8.3 1.2 93.5 59.8 31.
Capital risk management The following table summarises the capital of the Group: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 As per Balance Sheet Cash and cash equivalents 343.8 226.8 Borrowings 1,460.9 1,512.9 Net debt 1,117.1 1,286.1 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,088.0 969.5 Capital 2,205.1 2,255.6 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, re finance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
98 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowing to EBITDA ratio for the year ending 31 December 2010 is 1.64 2009: 2.22.
The following table sets out total available liquidity of the Group: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents note 16 343.8 226.8 Available but undrawn borrowing facilities note 19 300.0 210.0 Total available liquidity 643.8 436.8 No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital in the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009.
Financial instruments Treasury management and strategy The Groups treasury activities are managed by its corporate finance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose chairman is the Chief Financial Of cer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due: maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities: economically hedging both contracted and anticipated foreign currency cash ows on a minimum 12 months rolling basis with the option of covering exposures up to a maximum of three years forward: interest rate hedging: and maximising return on short-term investments.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
Treasury foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies.
The treasury department is, however, authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the hedging policy so as to establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each financial year, an average rate of exchange is calculated from the agreed currency deals.
This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21.
The policy is designed to minimise the impact of currency gains and losses in the Income Statement: gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments in the period are different from those that were forecast.
Financial instruments by category The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: As at 31 December 2010 As at 31 December 2009 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for Loans and used for US$ in millions receivables hedging Total receivables hedging Total Assets as per Balance Sheet a Trade and other receivables 203.0 203.0 176.2 176.2 Cash and cash equivalents 343.8 343.8 226.8 226.8 Derivative financial instruments 14.3 14.3 24.1 24.1 546.8 14.3 561.1 403.0 24.1 427.1 a Consists of trade receivables and other receivables see note 17.
As at 31 December 2010 As at 31 December 2009 Derivatives Other Derivatives Other used for financial used for financial US$ in millions hedging liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 1,460.9 1,460.9 1,512.9 1,512.9 a Trade and other payables 178.6 178.6 129.2 129.2 Derivative financial instruments 26.5 26.5 27.0 27.0 26.5 1,639.5 1,666.0 27.0 1,642.1 1,669.1 a Consists of trade payables, ACeS deferred consideration, SkyWave deferred consideration, other deferred consideration and other payables see note 20.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
As at 31 December 2010 Less than Between 1 Between 2 US$ in millions 1 year and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years Total a Borrowings 123.6 549.2 304.3 884.6 1,861.7 Derivative financial instruments 12.9 7.9 5.7 26.5 Trade and other payables 120.3 21.3 15.9 21.1 178.6 256.8 578.4 325.9 905.7 2,066.8 a Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, Senior Credit Facility, EIB Facility and Convertible Bond.
Interest obligations on the Revolving Credit Facility assume the current balance is held to maturity in May 2012.
The interest obligations do not take into account the impact of interest rate swaps and assume no changes in oating interest rates from the year end.
As at 31 December 2009 Less than Between 1 Between 2 US$ in millions 1 year and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years Total a Borrowings 193.1 143.1 893.0 786.9 2,016.1 Derivative financial instruments 14.1 7.8 5.1 27.0 Trade and other payables 101.6 10.4 3.7 13.5 129.2 308.8 161.3 901.8 800.4 2,172.3 a Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, Senior Credit Facility, Convertible Bond, Stratos Senior Credit Facility and Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes.
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments The Groups derivative financial instruments as at 31 December 2010 consist of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
The interest rate swaps and approximately 90% of forward foreign currency contracts 2009: 90% are designated cash ow hedges.
The net fair values at the Balance Sheet date were: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2010 2009 Contracts with positive fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 13.4 23.7 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.9 0.4 Contracts with negative fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 0.6 1.3 Total forward exchange currency contracts 13.7 22.8 Interest rate swap designated cash ow hedge 25.9 25.7 Total net fair value 12.2 2.9 Less non-current portion Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 6.9 12.0 Interest rate swap designated cash ow hedge 13.6 12.9 Current portion 5.5 2.0 The full value of a hedging derivative is classi ed as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classi ed as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts are based upon the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk free rate at the period end.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classi ed as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
100 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Forward foreign exchange The following table sets out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2010 and 2009: As at 31 December 2010 Maturing Maturing Maturing Outstanding forward foreign exchange Face within between between Fair value contracts in millions value 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years US$ GBP contracts 128.5 66.5 62.0 7.2 Euro contracts 122.1 74.3 47.8 5.6 Canadian dollar contracts $19.5 $15.6 $3.9 0.9 13.7 As at 31 December 2009 Maturing Maturing Outstanding forward foreign exchange Face Maturing between between Fair value contracts in millions value within 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years US$ GBP contracts 79.3 70.3 9.0 8.3 Euro contracts 129.6 40.5 45.2 43.9 14.9 Canadian dollar contracts $19.2 $19.2 0.4 22.8 As at the reporting date the aggregate amount of gains under forward exchange contracts deferred in the cash ow hedge reserve relating to these anticipated future transactions is US$0.8m 2009 gain: US$15.8m.
It is anticipated that expenditure will be incurred during the next 2 years during which the amount deferred in equity will be released into the Income Statement.
Interest rate swap The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2010: Average contracted Notional xed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Outstanding oating for US$ US$ US$ US$ xed contracts % % in millions in millions in millions in millions Less than 1 year 4.50% 100.0 12.3 12.8 1 to 2 years 4.50% 100.0 7.9 7.8 2 to 5 years 4.93% 4.93% 200.0 200.0 5.7 5.1 5 years 300.0 300.0 25.9 25.7 Under the interest rate swaps the Group receives quarterly oating interest three-month USD LIBOR to offset oating interest payable.
Gains or losses will reverse in the Income Statement when the swaps expire.
In 2009, the Group recognised a credit of US$0.6m directly in the Income Statement as a result of ineffectiveness arising on designated interest rate swaps 2010: US$nil.
Non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term and long-term investments, trade debtors and other debtors.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of bank overdrafts, deferred satellite payments, Senior Credit Facilities, Senior Notes due 2017, the EIB Facility, Convertible Bonds, accrued and accreted interest on borrowings, trade creditors and other creditors.
In 2009, includes the Stratos Senior Credit Facilities and Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes.
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities With the exception of the Senior Notes due 2017 and Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial instruments approximate to the carrying value in the Balance Sheet.
In 2009, includes the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 101 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: The fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments see note 16.
The fair value of trade and other receivables and payables approximate their carrying values see notes 17 and 20 respectively.
The carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period end.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 19.
Senior Credit Facilities are re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2010 net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$6.1m 2009: US10.6m.
The fair value approximates the carrying value see note 19.
The Senior Notes due 2017 are re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2010 net of unamortised arrangement costs and issuance discount of US$10.8m and US$4.2m 2009: US$12.5m and US$4.8m, respectively see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2017 are based on the market price of the bonds as at 31 December 2010 and are re ected in the table below.
The EIB Facility is re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2010 net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$2.6m 2009: US$nil.
The liability component of the Convertible Bond is re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2010 on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$2.6m 2009: US$3.6m see note 19.
The fair value of the Convertible Bond is based on the market price of the bonds as at 31 December 2010 and is re ected in the table below.
The Stratos Senior Credit Facilities and Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes were redeemed in May and June 2010 respectively.
As at 31 December 2010 As at 31 December 2009 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value US$ in millions amount amount amount amount Senior Notes due 2017 650.0 683.7 650.0 661.4 Convertible Bond 285.2 354.2 264.9 331.8 a Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 86.8 91.8 a At 31 December 2009 includes US$63.2m of the aggregate principal amount outstanding which was owned by the Group see note 19.
Capital commitments The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31 December 2010 of US$931.2m 2009: US$394.5m.
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Alphasat and Global Xpress projects.
Related party transactions In the normal course of operations Stratos engages in transactions with its equity owned investees Navarino Telecom SA and NTS Maritime Limited together Navarino and JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from the related parties for the 2010 financial year was US$22.1m and US$8.6m respectively 2009: US$23.1m and US$0.2m respectively.
The amount receivable from the related party at 31 December 2010 was US$10.0m and US$2.4m, respectively 2009: US$8.4m and US$nil, respectively.
Remuneration paid to key management personnel, being the Executive Staff including Executive Directors of the Company, during the year is as follows: US$ in millions 2010 2009 a Short-term employee bene ts 8.8 14.2 Post-employment bene ts 0.2 0.2 a Share-based payment 6.6 6.5 Total remuneration 15.6 20.9 a Includes employers National Insurance or other social security contributions.
The amount owing to the Executive Staff including Executive Directors as at 31 December 2010 and 2009 was US$3.1m and US$8.0m respectively.
Management believes that all related party transactions were made on an arms length basis.
102 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35.
Principal subsidiary undertakings At 31 December 2010, the Company had investments in the following principal subsidiaries that have a signi cant impact on the consolidated results and total assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of subsidiaries and associates which are not signi cant have been omitted from this list.
A full list of subsidiaries and associates will be annexed to the Companys next annual return to be led with the Registrar of Companies.
Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary share capital share capital at 31 at 31 Country of incorporation December December Principal activity and operation 2010 2009 Inmarsat B. V. Service provider The Netherlands 100% 100% Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance plc Finance company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Inc. Service provider USA 100% 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Services Limited Employment company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Ventures Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% a Segovia, Inc Holding company USA 100% 100% Moskowskij Teleport Operating company Russia 80% 80% Stratos Communications Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Stratos Global Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% b Stratos Global Solutions Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Stratos Mobile Networks Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Stratos New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand 100% 100% Stratos Offshore Services Company Operating company USA 100% 100% c Stratos Wireless Inc. Operating company Canada 100% 100% d Stratos B. V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100% e Stratos Global Singapore Pte Ltd. Operating company Singapore 100% 100% f Stratos Hong Kong Ltd. Operating company Hong Kong 100% 100% a Hornet Acquisition, Inc. was incorporated in November 2009 and was renamed Segovia, Inc. in January 2010. b CIP UK Holdings Limited was renamed Stratos Global Solutions Limited in December 2010. c In June 2010 there was an amalgamation of Stratos Wireless Inc. Stratos Global Corporation and CIP Canada Investment Inc. with the resulting company called Stratos Wireless Inc. d Xantic Sales B. V. merged into Xantic B. V. in September 2010.
Xantic B. V. subsequently changed its name to Stratos B. V. in November 2010. e Xantic Mobile Satellite Services Singapore Pte Ltd changed its name to Stratos Global Singapore Pte Ltd in December 2010. f Xantic Hong Kong Ltd changed its name to Stratos Hong Kong Ltd in January 2011.
Events after the balance sheet date Subsequent to 31 December 2010 other than the events discussed above there have been no other material events, which would affect the information re ected in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 103
