DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws We con rm to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance financial position and pro t or loss of the Company and the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS and Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Report financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European of the Directors, includes a fair review of the development and Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the performance of the business and the position of the Company accounts unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or whole, together with a description of the principal risks and loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial uncertainties that they face.
statements, the Directors are required to: Andrew Sukawaty properly select and apply accounting policies: Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 7 March 2011 that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Rick Medlock provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Chief Financial Of cer speci c requirements in IFRSs are insuf cient to enable users 7 March 2011 to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
58 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
