118 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Investor information Website and electronic communication Individual Savings Accounts ISAs As part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost and Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares.
For further information please environmental impact of producing and distributing printed contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2244. documents in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report Share dealing services and Annual Review have been made available to the majority of shareholders through the Companys website Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares.
com investors under financial library.
information on this service, call 0871 384 2132.
They also offer a telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview Dealing, which Shareholders may appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling shares.
behalf on any poll that may be held at the forthcoming Annual For telephone dealings, call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and General Meeting.
Shareholders who hold their shares through 4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log on to CREST may appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy www.
co. uk appointment service, by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
ShareGift Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, IHG is currently operating a promotion for discounted hotel stays the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be subject to availability for registered shareholders, through a obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.
org dedicated, controlled access website.
For further details please or by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. contact the Company Secretariat at the registered office on 01895 512 000 or email companysecretariat@ihg.
com Missing shareholders Changes to the base cost of IHG shares Working with ProSearch, an asset reunification company, we continue to look for shareholders who have not kept their contact Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since details up to date.
We have funds waiting to be claimed and are April 2003 up to December 2010, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, committed to doing what we can to pay these to their rightful may be found on the Companys website www.
For further details please contact ProSearch on under shareholder centre tax information.
com Corporate Responsibility Report Shareholder security IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report for Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have 2010 covering progress on a range of environmental, social and received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning community issues.
This is available on our corporate website and investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based can be downloaded directly at www.
com responsibility brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what Registrar often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification of rooms.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can a shareholders change of address and for information on a range be found on the Financial Services Authority website of shareholder services please contact the Companys Registrar, www.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Dividend services American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange dividends.
For further information about the DRIP, please contact in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268.
A DRIP application and traded under the symbol IHG.
information booklet are available on the Companys website Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
com investors under shareholder centre dividends.
ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly into to JPMorgan Chase & Co, our authorised depositary bank details a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate shown on page 120. their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of Form 20-F shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the It may be possible for shareholders to have their dividends paid Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with direct to their bank account in a local currency.
Charges are the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be payable for this service.
Further information is available at found on the Companys website www.
co. uk under shareholder centre overseas shareholder centre ADR holders or by visiting the SECs website payment service.
shtml If you think that you have out of date dividend warrants or outstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar Telephone calls to these numbers are currently charged at 8p per minute if using for further information.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
