70 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Accounting policies IFRS 8 amendment Operating Segments clarifies that segment General information assets and liabilities need only be reported when included in The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels information reviewed by the chief operating decision maker.
Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2010 IAS 7 amendment Statement of Cash Flows states that only were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the expenditure resulting in recognition of an asset can be presented Directors on 14 February 2011.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as a cash flow from investing activities.
the Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
IAS 17 amendment Leases clarifies that a lease of land should be classified as an operating or finance lease in accordance with Summary of significant accounting policies the economic substance of the arrangement.
Basis of preparation IAS 36 amendment Impairment of Assets clarifies that the largest permitted unit for allocation of goodwill is the IFRS 8 The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared operating segment before aggregation for reporting purposes.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in IFRIC 16 amendment Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Operation removes the restriction on a hedged foreign operation holding the hedging instruments.
Changes in accounting policies With effect from 1 January 2010, the Group has implemented Changes in presentation the following new accounting standards, amendments and The Group statement of changes in equity has been expanded interpretations.
None of these have had a material impact on the to include an analysis of other comprehensive income by each Groups financial performance or position during the year and there component of equity.
The additional information is presented in has been no requirement to restate prior year comparatives.
accordance with best practice and will become mandatory in 2011.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations changes the accounting The fair values of derivative financial instruments are presented for transaction costs, the valuation of non-controlling interests, separately on the face of the Group statement of financial position for the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of contingent the first time previously included within current Trade and other consideration, and business combinations achieved in stages.
payables due to their increased materiality and in accordance with These changes will impact the amount of goodwill recognised best practice.
and the reported results in the period when an acquisition occurs Net debt has been redefined to include the exchange element of and future reported results.
These changes only apply to new the fair value of currency swaps that fix the value of the Groups acquisitions and there have been none during the year.
This change has been made to reflect the IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial commercial rationale of the hedging relationship.
See notes 23 Statements requires the effects of all transactions with nonand 24 for further details.
controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change Presentational currency in control and such transactions no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions when control is lost: any remaining interest in the entity is of US dollars following a management decision to change the remeasured to fair value with a gain or loss recognised in profit reporting currency from sterling during 2008.
made to reflect the profile of the Groups revenue and operating profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollarIFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash assets to Owners provides linked currencies.
guidance on accounting for arrangements where non-cash assets are distributed to shareholders.
The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 on transition to IFRS and this reserve is presented on the IAS 39 amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
Measurement Eligible Hedged Items clarifies that an entity is Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item.
The the rates of exchange on the last day of the period: the resultant amendment also specifies that inflation is not a separately exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
identifiable risk and cannot be designated as the hedged risk unless it represents a contractually specified cash flow.
The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United IFRS 2 amendment Share-based Payment: Group Cash-settled Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose Share-based Payment Arrangements provides guidance on primary activity is the payment and receipt of interest on sterling accounting for inter-group cash-settled share-based payment denominated external borrowings and inter-company balances.
transactions in the separate financial statements of an entity.
IFRS 5 amendment Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations clarifies that disclosures required in respect of non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations are only those set out in IFRS 5.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Accounting policies 71 Basis of consolidation Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
values exceed their estimated recoverable amount, the assets The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are or cash-generating units are written down to the recoverable consolidated for the period during which they were under the amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs Groups control.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated Foreign currencies future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the losses, and any subsequent reversals, are recognised in the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in income statement.
foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at the relevant rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the period.
On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations of All foreign exchange differences arising on translation are property, plant and equipment at deemed cost as permitted by IFRS 1 recognised in the income statement except on foreign currency First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a Goodwill foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being the translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, and contingent liabilities.
With effect from 1 January 2010, are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange transaction costs are expensed and therefore not included in ruling on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses of the cost of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average rates measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising on Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount amounts.
Impairment losses cannot be subsequently reversed.
recognised in the currency translation reserve relating to that particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain or loss Intangible assets on disposal.
Software Property, plant and equipment Acquired software licences and software developed in-house are Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring and any impairment.
to use the specific software.
Costs are amortised over estimated useful lives of three to five years on a straight-line basis.
Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to prepare Internally generated development costs are expensed unless forecast for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the asset cost.
revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, at which All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Borrowing time they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in Management contracts connection with the borrowing of funds.
However, all borrowing When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise or costs relating to projects commencing before 1 January 2009 management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as were expensed.
part of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
The value of management contracts is Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful 50 years on a straight-line basis.
lives, namely: Other intangible assets buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts and fixtures, fittings and equipment three to 25 years.
franchise agreements are capitalised and amortised over the shorter All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value of the contracted period and 10 years on a straight-line basis.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
72 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Accounting policies continued Associates Cash and cash equivalents An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with an in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible Associates are accounted for using the equity method unless the to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of associate is classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, changes in value.
the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are shown share of post-acquisition profits and losses.
When the Groups net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of further losses Assets held for sale is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified as held an associate.
for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is Financial assets highly probable.
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
Management determines the classification of Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment financial assets on initial recognition and they are subsequently classified as held for sale.
held at amortised cost loans and receivables or fair value available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest on loans and Financial liabilities receivables is calculated using the effective interest rate method Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective and is recognised in the income statement as interest income.
A financial liability is derecognised when the Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are obligation under the liability expires, is discharged or cancelled.
recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and losses reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments Trade payables recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised nominal value.
in the income statement as other operating income and expenses.
Bank and other borrowings Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each period-end Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value date.
In the case of an equity investment classified as available-forof the consideration received less directly attributable transaction sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost is costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance evidence that the asset is impaired.
If an available-for-sale financial charges, including the transaction costs and any discount or asset is impaired, the difference between original cost and fair premium on issue, are charged to the income statement using the value is transferred from equity to the income statement to the effective interest rate method.
extent of any cumulative loss recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly to the income statement.
Impairment losses on Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
is more than 12 months from the period-end date or where they are drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
Inventories Derivative financial instruments and hedging Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured Trade receivables at fair value.
The method of recognising the remeasurement Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging provision for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for 100% instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
of the previous months aged receivables balances which are more Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow than 180 days past due.
Adjustments to the policy may be made hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the due to specific or exceptional circumstances when collection is no unrealised gains and losses reserve to the extent that the hedges longer considered probable.
The carrying amount of the receivable are effective.
When the hedged item is recognised, the cumulative is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements gains and losses on the related hedging instrument are reclassified in the provision are recognised in the income statement within cost to the income statement.
When a previously provided trade receivable is Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as net uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.
investment hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the currency translation reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective.
The cumulative gains and losses remain in equity until a foreign operation is sold, at which point they are reclassified to the income statement.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Accounting policies 73 Changes in the fair value of derivatives which have either not been Retirement benefits designated as hedging instruments or relate to the ineffective portion Defined contribution plans of hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness of income statement as they fall due.
any hedging arrangements is maintained throughout the life of the Defined benefit plans hedge relationship.
Plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit is recorded in financial income or expenses on a net basis over the method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the current term of the agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent hedging relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference between Self insurance the value of plan assets and liabilities at the period-end date is the The Group undertakes self insurance for various insurable risks amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the statement of financial including property damage business interruption, fidelity guarantee, position as an asset or liability.
An asset is recognised when the general liability, workers compensation employers liability and employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some employee medical and dental coverage from time to time in line with point during the life of the plan or on its wind up.
If a refund would economic conditions and trends within the global insurance market.
be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, Insurance reserves for self insurance include projected settlements the asset is recorded at the amount net of the tax.
A liability is also for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Projected recorded for any such tax that would be payable in respect of settlements are estimated based on historical trends and funding commitments based on the accounting assumption that the actuarial data.
related payments increase the asset.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for Provisions the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be on a straight-line basis over the period during which any increase made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can be made.
To the extent that improvements in benefits vest If the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan economic benefits expected to be received under it.
liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the Taxes actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised Current tax in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from are updated for material transactions and other material changes or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
The tax rates and tax in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or rates up to the end of the reporting period.
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Revenue recognition Deferred tax Revenue is the gross inflow of economic benefits received and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect receivable by the Group on its own account where those inflows of temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value result in increases in equity.
of assets and liabilities, including accelerated capital allowances, unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas where Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees: the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into management fees: owned and leased properties and other replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties and revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations, including other short-term temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the realised.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed normal course of business and recognised when services have at the end of each reporting period.
The following is a description of the composition of revenues of the Group.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
74 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Accounting policies continued Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the Disposal of non-current assets Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with The Group recognises sales proceeds and any related gain the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a or loss on disposal on completion of the sales process.
Revenue is recognised when earned In determining whether the gain or loss should be recorded, and realised or realisable under the terms of the agreement.
the Group considers whether it: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
associated with asset ownership: Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is with asset ownership: and generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows.
Revenue can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the terms of the contract.
Discontinued operations Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, Discontinued operations are those relating to hotels or operations including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from sold or those classified as held for sale when the results relate to owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
a separate line of business, geographical area of operations, or Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and where there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of beverages are sold.
business or geographical area of operations.
Share-based payments Exceptional items The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured The Group discloses certain financial information both including by reference to fair value at the date at which the right to the shares and excluding exceptional items.
The presentation of information is granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of the option pricing models.
underlying trading performance of the Group and provides The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together consistency with the Groups internal management reporting.
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which Exceptional items are identified by virtue of either their size or any performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the assess underlying trends in financial performance.
items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, The income statement charge for a period represents the restructuring costs and the release of tax provisions.
movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not Use of accounting estimates and judgements ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon The preparation of financial statements requires management a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the conditions are satisfied.
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of equity-settled awards different assumptions and conditions.
and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after The estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Leases Trade receivables a provision for impairment of trade receivables Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on is made on the basis of historical experience and other factors a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group Impairment the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with impairment.
Other non-current assets, including property, plant a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the and equipment, are tested for impairment if there are indicators leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease of impairment.
Impairment testing requires an estimate of future payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate and, in the of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so case of hotels, an assessment of recoverable amount based on as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance comparable market transactions.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Accounting policies 75 System Fund in addition to management or franchise fees, hotels Other the Group also makes estimates and judgements in the within the IHG system pay cash assessments and contributions valuation of franchise and management agreements acquired which are collected by IHG for specific use within the System Fund on asset disposals, the valuation of financial assets classified as the Fund.
The Fund also receives proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims Priority Club Rewards points.
IHG exerts significant influence over and in the valuation of share-based payment costs.
the operation of the Fund, however the Fund is managed for the New standards issued but not effective benefit of hotels in the system with the objective of driving revenues The following accounting standards, amendments and for the hotels.
The Fund is used to pay for marketing, the Priority interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Club Rewards loyalty programme and the global reservation financial statements have not been adopted early by the Group system.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any and will be adopted in accordance with the effective date.
The short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group statement Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards, of financial position within working capital.
amendments and interpretations will have a material impact on the As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does Groups reported income or net assets in the period of adoption.
not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement criteria as outlined in the accounting policy above are not met and which is effective from 1 January 2013, introduces new therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and the Group income statement.
for measuring financial liabilities at fair value through profit The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the or loss.
appropriate headings in the Group statement of financial position IAS 24 amendment Related Party Disclosures which is effective as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest from 1 January 2011, clarifies and simplifies the definition of a with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the Priority Club related party.
Rewards liability, short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the Fund.
IFRIC 14 amendment Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement which is effective from 1 January 2011 with The cash flows relating to the Fund are reported within cash flow retrospective application, permits an entity to treat the from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments which is effective from 1 July 2010, clarifies that Further information on the Fund is included in note 33. equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a financial Loyalty programme the hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club liability are measured at fair value with any gain or loss Rewards, enables members to earn points, funded through hotel recognised immediately in profit or loss.
assessments, during each qualifying stay at an IHG branded hotel IFRS 7 amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation or other is effective from 1 January 2011, amends the credit risk benefits.
The future redemption liability is included in trade and disclosures for financial assets.
other payables and is estimated using eventual redemption rates determined by actuarial methods and points values.
Actuarial gains IFRIC 13 amendment Customer Loyalty Programmes, which is and losses on the future redemption liability are borne by the effective from 1 January 2011, clarifies that when the fair value of System Fund and any resulting changes in the liability would an award is measured based on redemption value, the amount of correspondingly adjust the amount of short-term timing differences discounts granted to customers not in the loyalty programme held in the Group statement of financial position.
should be taken into account.
Retirement and other post-employment benefits the cost Note: the effective dates are in respect of accounting periods of defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment beginning on or after the date shown and so will be effective for benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial the Group from 1 January 2011, other than IFRS 9 which will be valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, effective for the Group from 1 January 2013. expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Tax provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
In addition, deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax attributes to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised.
Judgement is required as to the amount that can be recognised based on the likely amount and timing of future taxable profits, taking into account expected tax planning.
Deferred tax balances are dependent on managements expectations regarding the manner and timing of recovery of the related assets.
