THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Contacts and Forward-looking statements 121 Were a global hotel company 1 Overview Forward-looking statements the worlds largest by number 2 Headlines of rooms operating seven 3 Chairmans statement Both the Annual Report and Financial including, but not limited to: the risks involved well-known brands internationally.
4 Chief Executives review Statements 2010 and the Annual Review and with the Groups reliance on the reputation of its Our Vision is to become one of 5 Message from the IAHI Summary Financial Statement 2010 contain brands and the protection of its intellectual the worlds great companies.
6 Great brands certain forward-looking statements as defined property rights: the risks related to identifying, For us this means having great under US legislation Section 21E of the securing and retaining franchise and 7 Business review brands which lie at the heart of Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to management agreements: the effect of political 8 Industry and market trends Great Hotels Guests Love.
the financial condition, results of operations and and economic developments: the ability to 9 Our strategy business of InterContinental Hotels Group and acquire and retain the right people and skills 12 Measuring our success certain plans and objectives of the Board of and capability to manage growth and change: 12 Where we compete Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the risk of events that adversely impact domestic 13 How we win with respect thereto.
Such statements include, or international travel: the risks involved in the 14 Group performance but are not limited to, statements made in the Groups reliance upon its proprietary reservations 16 Regional performance Chairmans statement and in the Chief system and increased competition in reservations 22 Central and System Fund results Executives review.
These forward-looking infrastructure: the risks in relation to technology 22 Other financial information statements can be identified by the fact that they and systems: the risks of the hotel industry 24 Our people do not relate only to historical or current facts.
supply and demand cycle: the possible lack of Forward-looking statements often use words selected development opportunities: the risks 28 Corporate responsibility such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, related to corporate responsibility: the risk of 31 Risk management intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of litigation: the risks associated with the Groups similar meaning.
These statements are based ability to maintain adequate insurance: the risks on assumptions and assessments made by associated with the Groups financial stability, 1 InterContinental Hotels Groups management in its ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants: We want people to feel good about light of their experience and their perception of compliance with data privacy regulations: what we do and how we do it.
Around Overview historical trends, current conditions, expected the risks related to information security: and the world, we aim to delight our guests, future developments and other factors they the risks associated with funding the defined inspire our people, act responsibly believe to be appropriate.
benefits under its pension plans.
and generate financial returns for By their nature, forward-looking statements are The main factors that could affect the business our hotel owners and our investors.
inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and financial results are described in the This requires: and uncertainty.
There are a number of factors Business review of the Annual Report and Designed and produced that could cause actual results and developments Financial Statements 2010 and also in the Great Brands by Corporate Edge to differ materially from those expressed in, or Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F. which not only stand out, but also implied by, such forward-looking statements, Print management by stand for something that resonates HH Associates with our guests.
Printed by Royle Print Great People who bring our brands to life and give guests every reason to stay This Report is printed with us time and again.
on 9lives 80 Silk which is made up of 60% FSC postGreat Values InterContinental Sanya Resort, China consumer recycled fibre, which bring our people together as 20% pre-consumer recycled a happy, successful and responsible fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre business.
7 7 Our printer is also FSC and Great Ways of Working B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vi ie ew w Carbon Neutral accredited.
which place our guests at the heart of everything we do, and support our hotel owners to do the same.
Well be a great company when: Guests love to stay with us InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom People love to work for us Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Owners love our brands make a booking at IHG Annual Report and 1 www.
com Financial Statements 2010 Investors love our performance Images on the outside cover 1.
Hotel Indigo London-Tower Hill, UK 5 6 5.
Candlewood Suites Orlando, US Cover images: 6.
InterContinental Shanghai Expo, China See inside back cover for image details Crowne Plaza Athens, Greece InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 make a booking at IHG Annual Report and www.
com Financial Statements 2010 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Were a global hotel company 1 Overview 6 Delivering the worlds largest by number great brands 2 Headlines of rooms operating seven 6 Introduction 3 Chairmans well-known brands internationally.
statement 7 InterContinental Our Vision is to become one of Hotels & Resorts the worlds great companies.
4 Chief Executives For us this means having great review 8 Crowne Plaza brands which lie at the heart of Hotels & Resorts 5 Message from Great Hotels Guests Love.
the IAHI 9 Hotel Indigo 10 The Holiday Inn family of brands 12 Staybridge Suites 13 Candlewood Suites 14 Priority Club Rewards We want people to feel good about what we do and how we do it.
Around 7 the world, we aim to delight our guests, inspire our people, act responsibly and generate financial returns for our hotel owners and our investors.
This requires: Great Brands which not only stand out, but also stand for something that resonates with our guests.
Great People who bring our brands to life and give guests every reason to stay with us time and again.
Great Values InterContinental Bangkok, Thailand which bring our people together as a happy, successful and responsible business.
Great Ways of Working which place our guests at the heart 10 of everything we do, and support our hotel owners to do the same.
Well be a great company when: Guests love to stay with us People love to work for us Owners love our brands Investors love our performance Cover image: InterContinental Shanghai Expo, China Holiday Inn, Singapore OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES 1 15 How we operate 24 Where we operate 32 Facts and figures 15 Worldwide scale: 24 Around the world 32 Summary Our operating system financial statement 26 The Americas and our business model 36 Our senior 28 Europe, Middle East 16 Our people leadership team and Africa 18 Global technology 38 Summary 30 Asia Pacific Directors report 20 Business reputation 39 Corporate governance 22 Corporate responsibility 40 Summary remuneration report 44 Investor information 45 Financial calendar and Contacts 8 9 Crowne Plaza Gurgaon, India Hotel Indigo London-Tower Hill, UK 12 13 Staybridge Suites Newcastle, UK Candlewood Suites Orlando, US 2 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Headlines Total gross revenue from all hotels in IHG system up 11% to $18.7bn Revenue up 6% to $1,628m Operating profit before exceptional items: Group $444m 2009 $363m The Americas $369m 2009 $288m EMEA $125m 2009 $127m Asia Pacific $89m 2009 $52m Revenue per available room up 6.2% Total number of rooms operating under IHG brands 647,161 4,437 hotels 2,956 hotels operating under the new Holiday Inn standards 89% of the global Holiday Inn estate 68% of total rooms revenue booked through IHGs channels or by Priority Club Rewards members direct to hotel 8m new Priority Club Rewards members added 56m members in total Final dividend up 21% at 35.2 sterling equivalent of 22p Total rooms revenue from franchised hotels and total hotel revenue from managed, owned and leased hotels not all attributable to IHG.
Includes one significant liquidated damages receipt in 2009 in EMEA totalling $3m.
Total system rooms revenue divided by the number of room nights available.
InterContinental Sanya Resort, China OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Headlines and Chairmans statement 3 Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder Performance Revenue increased 6 per cent to $1.6 billion, with operating profit before exceptional items of $444 million, up 22 per cent.
Adjusted earnings per share decreased 4 per cent from 102.8 cents to 98.6 cents.
The Board is recommending a 21 per cent increase to the final dividend for 2010, taking it to 35.2 cents per share.
This will give a full-year dividend of 48.0 cents per share, 16 per cent higher than 2009.
This converts to a sterling full-year dividend of 30.0 pence, up 15 per cent compared with 2009.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 3 June 2011.
Board I am pleased to welcome Jim Abrahamson and Kirk Kinsell to the Board as Executive Directors.
Their appointments were effective from 1 August 2010.
Each has retained his existing responsibilities as a member of IHGs Executive Committee.
Jim joined IHG as President of the Americas region in January 2009 from Global Hyatt Corporation.
He has over 30 years of management experience in hotel operations, branding, development and franchisee relations, including 12 years with Hilton Hotels Corporation.
Kirk joined IHG in 2002 as Chief Development Officer for the Americas region, having previously held senior franchise and brand operations roles with the former Holiday Inn During 2010 we grew both sales Corporation and ITT Sheraton.
He was appointed to IHGs Executive Committee as and profits and delivered on our President, EMEA, in September 2007. priorities.
The recommended Both Jim and Kirk are highly regarded within the industry and have a deep 21 per cent growth in the final understanding of the hotel business.
This significant operational experience will dividend reflects our confidence be of great benefit to IHGs Board.
David Webster Financial position and shareholder returns Chairman Given the uncertainty in the wider economic environment during 2010, we continued with our prudent approach to managing our balance sheet.
Careful control over cash has enabled us to reduce our overall net debt position by $349 million to $743 million.
No returns above normal dividends were made to shareholders in 2010.
Total funds returned since March 2004 amount to more than 3.5 billion.
Outlook Our people were central to our strong performance in 2010.
On behalf of the Board I should like to thank everyone in IHG for their hard work and commitment during the year.
With improving business confidence and corporate profitability, combined with a lower level of hotel openings expected across the industry, forward trends look favourable.
Our global scale, attractive brands, powerful system and experienced management team position us well to drive market share and improve margins into the future.
David Webster Chairman 4 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Chief Executives review In a year when the global hotel industry returned to growth, we continued to improve the strength of our brands and our system.
This has resulted in a greater share of the global pipeline and the successful near completion of the Holiday Inn relaunch.
The economic environment remained uncertain throughout 2010.
But as the year progressed the hotel recovery gathered pace, resulting in growth in revenue per available room RevPAR in each of our regions and a rise of 6.2 per cent for the Group as a whole.
This led to good growth in revenues and profit for IHG and we continued to make excellent progress against our long-term strategic priorities.
Consequently we are well placed to drive market share and improve margins in the years to come.
Driving market share The relaunch of Holiday Inn was close to completion at the end of the year.
2,956 hotels are now operating under the new brand standards, which have revitalised our largest brand family globally.
Relaunched hotels continue to perform strongly.
The global roll-out of our newest brand, Hotel Indigo, continued as we opened a second hotel in London at Tower Hill and the first Hotel Indigo in Asia Pacific in Shanghai.
We signed 25 Hotel Indigos into our pipeline, taking the total number Weve made excellent progress this under development to 62. year, strengthening our brands and The power of our system and brands helped us achieve an 18 per cent share of the using our scale advantage to drive global pipeline of new-build hotels.
During the year we re-entered the Hawaii market market share and improve margins.
with Holiday Inn and formed an innovative alliance with Las Vegas Sands Corp. We will continue to focus on investing bringing The Venetian and Palazzo Resorts into the InterContinental system.
behind growth and creating value In 2010, 68 per cent of rooms revenue came through our reservations channels or for our shareholders.
by Priority Club Rewards members direct to hotels.
We also signed a record number Andrew Cosslett of new Priority Club Rewards members in the year.
Total membership now stands Chief Executive at 56 million.
Growing margins We kept regional and central costs broadly in line with 2009 excluding the impact of performance-based incentives.
This, and our drive to improve the efficiency of the Group, helped increase fee-based margins by 1.1 percentage points.
Our Vision is to become one of the worlds great companies and the actions we have taken in 2010 have reaffirmed that we are on the right path.
We continue to focus hard on our strategic priorities to drive market share and improve margins, and with industry trends set to be positive, we look forward to a successful 2011.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Chief Executives review and Message from the IAHI 5 Our Vision is to become one of the worlds great companies A profitable future together Over the past years we have put the key elements in place to help us fulfil our Vision.
All IAHI members will likely not share We are working side by side with our owners on our shared core purpose of creating the same view of 2010.
Some will Great Hotels Guests Love.
We continue to invest in strengthening our brands so that have seen significant recovery in their they stand out and stand for something in the hearts and minds of our guests.
And we markets: others will have continued to continue to align our organisation behind those brands, helping to inspire pride in the face challenges.
But no matter where people who bring the brands to life for our guests every day, in every country.
These they are on the road to recovery, every key elements, delivered consistently, will ensure that guests prefer our brands, IAHI member will share a positive view helping us to win market share.
of our collaboration with IHG.
Our Vision to become great This year, we launched Celebrate Service, a global tribute to our greatest asset When we have Delivered by Who share With We will become our people.
This collaboration, which started as an idea of past IAHI Chairman one of Mark Carrier, became a platform for Great Great Great Great the worlds Brands People Values Ways of Great celebrating the contribution of every Working Companies employee.
Building on that success, the IAHI encouraged and supported the introduction of People Tools to all IHG hotels, responding to what our members Driving brand preference said was a key challenge: recruiting, We are in the people business.
Its the people in our hotels that really bring the brands developing, and retaining talent.
So in 2011 we are rolling out a world class suite of tools that give Another key challenge is driving our owners the opportunity to immerse their people in our brands still further.
In 2010, we introduced tools will help them hire the best person for their brand, clarify their understanding one cost-saving innovation, InnSupply, of what a guest is looking for in that brand and give them the tools to motivate and which began as an IAHI initiative.
These tools will help us to drive consistency in brand delivery it became apparent that the resources and help our owners to engage, develop and retain good people.
needed to support a procurement programme were beyond our scope, Global opportunities we approached IHG for their expertise We are always looking for new opportunities around the world.
There are, however, to launch such a programme.
InnSupply huge opportunities for our existing brand portfolio.
We are focused on quality not rolls out in early 2011, and the savings quantity.
The Holiday Inn relaunch has been one of the biggest initiatives in hotel to our owners in dollars and time history and we are now preparing to refresh Crowne Plaza.
We have been pleased should be significant.
with the results of our boutique brand, Hotel Indigo, this year and are looking forward The benefits of the IAHI and IHG working to an escalated roll-out next year.
Our brands are benefiting from the opportunities closely together have never been more opening up in emerging markets where we are building a strong position.
Working together, we will continue to build a profitable future for every owner.
Bill DeForrest Chairman, IAHI, the Owners Association Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive For further information go to www.
org 6 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Great Hotels Guests Love Delivering great brands Great brands lie at the heart of Great Hotels Guests Love.
Guests want our brands to offer something distinctive and special.
And they want to feel certain they will enjoy the same high-quality experience every time.
Providing guests with this confidence underpins our brand strength, as does the training and dedication of our people.
Great brands, combined with the scale and power of our system, allow us to grow return on investment and increase hotel owner satisfaction.
The right people The experience we create for our guests starts with our people.
Getting the right people with the right training to deliver a distinctive experience for each of our brands is the aim of our People Tools see page 16.
The right environment The right people need the right environment to create great guest experiences.
This was the main goal of our $1 billion relaunch of Holiday Inn.
The global refresh, the largest ever in the hospitality industry, has driven a significant improvement in guest satisfaction and revenue per available room RevPAR across our hotels around the world.
Since 2005 we have also added 1,200 hotels to the portfolio and removed around 1,000 others that were not up to high enough standards see pages 10 and 11.
Our powerful system, the quality of our hotels and ability of our people enable us to deliver a consistently great guest experience.
That means our brands are ideally placed to outperform our competitors.
Tom Seddon Chief Marketing Officer Holiday Inn Pattaya, Thailand Our powerful system In addition to a great guest experience, a global hotel brand needs a powerful global operating system and marketing strength to attract and retain customers.
IHGs $1 billion system fund attracts guests and drives revenue for owners in many ways.
These include our reservations channels, regional sales teams and the worlds largest loyalty club scheme, Priority Club Rewards, with 56 million members.
Our system is the reason we attract over 146 million room nights per annum and five rooms are booked with us every second.
It also supports successful programmes such as our $100 million Stay You campaign for Holiday Inn see page 11.
Standing for something special Brands become great when they stand out and stand for something that people remember and choose first.
Over the next eight pages we set out how we are developing our brands to create Great Hotels Guests Love and become one of the worlds great companies.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Great brands 7 more on the web: www.
com InterContinental Hotels & Resorts In the know Weve been on the international scene for decades, so no-one knows the world like we do.
We love to share our knowledge with our guests and they love our understated service and style.
Located in more than 60 countries, weve got all the local insight that comes with over 60 years of experience.
Our people know that well-travelled, affluent guests want to connect with the essence of a location.
So its every team members desire to help guests enjoy authentic and enriching experiences that broaden their outlook and make the most of their time with us.
To help guests get in the know we offer Destination Videos, part of InterContinentals Concierge programme.
Theyve received over 4.5 million views on our website and YouTube.
Our global concierge Insider Guides are also available on a free iPad app at www.
com insiderguides Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 56 19,120 5 EMEA 64 20,111 24 Asia Pacific 51 19,198 31 Total 171 58,429 60 www.
com Being local We opened nine new InterContinental hotels this year, with flagship properties in Shanghai and Nanjing, China: New York, US: and Mendoza, Argentina.
This took our global estate to 171 hotels.
We also signed agreements to open new hotels in Cartagena, Colombia: Osaka, Japan: Beijing, China: and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, boosting our pipeline to 60 hotels.
This planned growth in strategic locations across the globe is key to expanding our knowledge of the world and making our brand more accessible to our guests.
Extending the brand In 2010 InterContinental launched its first ever China brand campaign.
This featured our new properties the InterContinental Sanya Resort, InterContinental Shanghai Expo and InterContinental Nanjing.
The campaign reached around 25 million people across Greater China.
InterContinental Mendoza, Argentina Did you know?
We were awarded Best Business Hotel Brand in the World and Best Business Hotel Brand in Europe by Business Traveller in a 2010 poll.
8 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts Celebrate your stay Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts is our upscale brand of hotels located in urban centres, gateway cities and resort destinations across more than 56 countries.
We are recognised as The Place to Meet as we focus on providing a better experience for both meeting planners and their attendees.
We also know a good nights sleep only truly begins once youre able to shut out the world and switch off, which is why weve introduced a popular dedicated sleep programme called Sleep Advantage.
com We love to make sure that our guests have fun when they stay with us.
We do this by combining the very best facilities with great service, helping our guests get more from their trip beyond work.
Crowne Plaza Gurgaon, India Leading growth Crowne Plaza is the fourth largest upscale hotel brand in the world.
It also has the most hotels in the development pipeline of any upscale brand globally.
We signed hotels in 2010 in St. Petersburg, Changchun, Amsterdam and we opened in Bangkok.
Were opening more than 120 hotels over the next few years and in 2011 well be developing plans for a refresh of the brand, further improving the guest experience.
Official Partner of BMW Motorsport Crowne Plaza has joined forces with BMW Motorsport in a three-year global partnership to help us drive revenue by reaching more customers than ever before.
Its a strong brand fit as we do business in the same markets and share the same commitment to service.
We also share the same customers, together offering them a great lifestyle choice.
Travel buyers rated Crowne Plaza the No.
1 upscale brand in Business Travel News annual US Hotel Chain Survey 2010.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES G P ra eg ae t b hr ea an dd es r 9 9 more on the web: www.
com Hotel Indigo Refreshingly local We love the fact that were different, right down to our local take on design.
Were all about neighbourhoods and take every opportunity to share the colour, ambience and flavours of our localities with our guests.
Hotel Indigo combines the individuality of a boutique hotel with the consistency and reliability of a branded hotel.
We go out of our way to make our neighbourhoods easy to discover and appreciate.
The neighbourhood setting, modern design and our commitment to inspired service are what set Hotel Indigo apart.
Thats why we appeal to the upscale guest who is well-travelled, has an eye for design, an appreciation for art and is looking for something different.
Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 35 4,254 46 EMEA 2 110 11 Asia Pacific 1 184 5 Total 38 4,548 62 www.
com Our youngest brand Weve only just celebrated our sixth birthday, but our youngest brand is growing at great pace.
We finished the year with 38 hotels and have over 60 more in the pipeline.
Were set to open in major cities such as Madrid, Lisbon, Vancouver, Mexico City, Glasgow, New Orleans and Berlin.
Weve also now launched the brand in Asia Pacific with Shanghai on the Bund, which will be followed by openings in Taipei, Bangkok and Jakarta.
This year we opened a second London property, Hotel Indigo at Tower Hill, in the centre of the Citys Square Mile, and our fourth hotel in New York State.
Pulling power In 2010, J. D. Power and Associates featured Hotel Indigo for the first time in their customer satisfaction reports.
Guests at new brand hotels, such as Hotel Indigo, report theyve been happier with their stay over the past year than those staying with more established brands.
Hotel Indigo London-Tower Hill, UK Did you know?
Hotel Indigo and singer songwriter Natasha Bedingfield teamed up last year to uncover the best neighbourhood spots across America.
10 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express and Holiday Inn Club Vacations Official hotel services provider to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Every second 3 guests check into our hotels.
Every week 2 Holiday Inn Express hotels open.
Every year 120 million people stay at our hotels.
Following the Stay You campaign, awareness of the brand rose by 6 percentage points in the US and Canada last year.
Championing the real you: Our friendly people love to make our guests feel totally comfortable, Holiday Inn Holiday Inn Express Holiday Inn Club Vacations Weve always been known for our friendly One of the fastest growing hotel brands, We provide a fun and relaxing service, comfort and value.
Now were Holiday Inn Express offers convenience environment where memorable completing our worldwide relaunch, and comfort at great value.
Like Holiday vacations are created and shared among our business and leisure travellers can Inn, weve almost completed the brands family and friends time and again.
expect even better quality and service.
This means our guests can Families have been vacationing with expect the fresh, clean and comfortable Our new identity, contemporary lobbies Holiday Inn for more than 50 years.
stay theyre used to, with improved and refreshed guest rooms are all The new Holiday Inn Club Vacations service and a more contemporary feel designed to help guests relax and brand provides the same great value whether on business, on holiday or just simply be themselves.
and family-friendly atmosphere in passing through.
We won Hotel Brand of the Year for the new Holiday Inn Express Guest Room Design at the 2010 European Hotel Design Awards.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Great brands 11 more on the web: www.
com Stay You Chinas largest photo exhibition on the Great Wall.
Holiday Inn Hotels & Resorts were voted Best Mid-Market Hotel Brand in the World and Best Mid-Market Hotel Brand in Asia Pacific for the 10th consecutive year.
Holiday Inn Club Vacations a fun and relaxing environment where memorable vacations are created and shared among family and friends time and again.
whether they arrive in their suit, or shorts and a T-shirt.
Staying power Weve all but completed the $1 billion Holiday Inn relaunch, and we extended the pipeline in China, Turkey, Germany and the biggest-ever project of its kind in the hospitality industry.
At Dubai Airport we opened the largest Holiday Inn This was quite an achievement, especially in such a tough global Express in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
At the end of 2010, almost 3,000 hotels were London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games operating under the new Holiday Inn standards, approximately 90% of the global Holiday Inn estate.
The refreshed hotels offer We continued our preparations to welcome the world for modern spaces, friendly service and a great nights sleep in London 2012.
We announced a number of initiatives to help the 72 countries worldwide.
organising committee, LOCOG see page 29, and are preparing to open a new Holiday Inn around the Olympic Park.
Two other The benefits of the investment are already starting to be seen Holiday Inns will open next year in London as we prepare to by owners.
Our aim was to deliver between 3% and 7% RevPAR welcome guests in the run-up to the Games.
Results are at the top end of this target.
RevPAR growth for US hotels relaunched for Stay You.
more than one year was 6 percentage points higher than those In May 2010 we kicked off a $100 million global advertising we hadnt relaunched.
Global RevPAR is 5 percentage points campaign, inviting people to Stay You or simply be themselves.
We advertised on TV for the first time in Germany and also Growing our presence advertised across the US, UK, Canada, Latin America and Australia with print and digital campaigns in Mexico and Asia.
It has been a year of growth with Holiday Inn returning to More details of our Great Wall of China activity can be seen Hawaii and the opening of our first new-build in Mumbai, India.
Holiday Inn Express launched in India, Singapore and Malaysia 12 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Staybridge Suites Like family Our upscale properties offer guests who would like an extended stay a choice of studio, one-bedroom or two-bedroom two-bath suites with fully equipped kitchens and separate sleeping and work areas.
We also invite them to join our hotel teams and other guests for social activities that make them feel comfortable, making them feel like family.
Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 183 20,014 96 EMEA 5 748 5 Total 188 20,762 101 www.
com We love our guests to feel like family and our hotels to feel like home.
Staybridge Suites Augusta, Georgia, US Our brand abroad Staybridge Suites has grown every year in the Americas since its launch in 1998.
Were also now offering our all-suite concept in international markets such as Cairo, Abu Dhabi, St. Petersburg, Liverpool and Newcastle.
Following exciting new signings in 2010, our 101-strong pipeline will extend the brand in markets such as Kuwait and Lebanon.
One of the highlights will be our prominent position at the London 2012 Olympic Village in Stratford.
Times Square debut In 2010 we made our debut in New York Citys Times Square.
The property is within walking distance of Manhattans hub, the Jacob Javits Convention Centre, Broadway, Madison Square Gardens and Central Park.
Staybridge Suites also made its debut in Quertaro, central Mexico and we opened five properties across the US, including Oklahoma City and Seattle, Washington.
Staybridge Suites team members have raised funds to complete four villas at Give Kids The World Village in Orlando.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES G P ra eg ae t b hr ea an dd es r 1 13 3 more on the web: www.
com Candlewood Suites Feel free We love giving our guests all the essentials they need for a home-like stay at great value.
We give them room to be themselves and are always there when they need us.
At Candlewood Suites our guests want to feel trusted and free to do what they want in their own space.
Our hotels offer spacious studio and one-bedroom suites with fully equipped kitchens and a large work area which our guests often personalise to their liking.
The Candlewood Cupboard is open 24 hours and is the only hotel convenience store which operates on an honesty system.
Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 288 28,253 120 Total 288 28,253 120 www.
com Growth flows from Texas Our US and Canada-based Candlewood Suites brand added 13 new hotels in Texas during the first six months of 2010.
We are now open or about to open in 50 locations in the State.
In total, 35 Candlewood Suites opened in the year and our pipeline remains bigger than any other brand in the midscale extended stay segment of the market.
Habitat for Humanity Candlewood Suites has sponsored 10 Habitat for Humanity Home builds, creating home ownership opportunities for low-income families.
The 10 completed homes are located across the globe in Detroit, Michigan: Dallas and Houston, Texas: Atlanta, Georgia: Alocqauca, Mexico: and Karjat, India.
Candlewood Suites Hot Springs, Arkansas, US Did you know?
Candlewood Suites was the first mid-priced extended stay hotel in New York City.
14 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Priority Club Rewards Our new look Unleash the power of your points The worlds first and largest hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, offers members more ways to earn and redeem points than any other hotel scheme.
Our members have unparalleled levels of freedom and choice, including our industry-leading Hotels Anywhere scheme and the ability to get rewards faster with Points & Cash.
56 million members Over 600,000 new members every month www.
com Value in loyalty Priority Club Rewards is more than a loyalty scheme.
Its a dynamic and international brand in its own right.
The scheme drives over 40% of our total revenues by attracting guests to our hotels and gaining their repeat business.
Incentives trigger growth In 2010 the brand continued to grow as we added almost eight million new members and generated 15% more revenue.
Our greater flexibility was a key attraction, allowing guests to redeem points at any hotel, book airline tickets to anywhere in the world or combine Points & Cash for other rewards.
By offering this freedom of choice, Priority Club Rewards stands out in its market.
Our members know that: points never expire: rewards nights have no restricted dates: hotel, travel, merchandise and entertainment rewards are also offered.
Attracting guests and owners Guests love Priority Club Rewards.
And our owners see it as a huge attraction of our operating system.
This helps us to expand our estate in markets where we know we can create demand.
One example in 2010 was Holiday Inns return to Hawaii, one of the most requested destinations by our members see page 27.
Developing an award-winning brand Frequent travellers consistently vote Priority Club Rewards as their favourite hotel loyalty programme.
The scheme has been named Best Hotel Rewards Program in the World by Global Traveler magazine readers for six consecutive years and Best Hotel Loyalty Program by Business Traveler magazine for four years in a row.
In 2011 we will relaunch the scheme with a fresh new look.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Great brands and How we operate 15 more on the web: www.
com How we operate Worldwide scale Our operating system Our global system is the engine room of the business.
It brings guests to our hotels and persuades them to prefer our brands.
It also drives hotel reservations and revenue for our owners, a key reason why they choose to develop hotels with us.
To make our scale really count, we focus on the biggest markets and target our resources at opportunities that will deliver the best returns.
This has helped us grow our industry-leading share of the global branded development pipeline.
System Fund Annual fund Loyalty totalling programme Scale $1.1bn Priority Club 4,437 hotels.
Rewards, the Over 146 million largest in the room nights industry, with per annum 56 million members IHGs system Web presence Brand delivers 11 local language portfolio websites and one 7 hotel brands 68% of the most active covering all major in industry on of total rooms segments the web revenue Reservations Sales force systems Global 10 call centres Market sales team around the world, coverage of more covering 12 Leadership than 8,000 languages positions in 15 of the 20 largest hotel markets, more than any other company Our business model We run hotels in three ways: as a brand franchisor: a hotel manager of our brands: and as brand owner.
Our low-capital business model means we own only 15 of our hotels today.
Our focus is on franchising and managing hotels.
More than 3,000 hotel owners now choose our brands in over 4,400 hotels and over 640,000 rooms around the world.
Brand Marketing and Staff Ownership IHG capital IHG income distribution IHG IHG Third party Third party None Fee % of Franchised rooms revenue This is the largest part of our business: 3,783 hotels operate under franchise agreements IHG IHG IHG usually Third party Low none Fee % of total Managed supplies general revenue plus We manage 639 hotels worldwide manager as a % of profit minimum IHG IHG IHG IHG High All revenues Owned and leased and profits We own 15 hotels worldwide less than 1% of our portfolio 16 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 How we operate Our people We have set out a clear Vision to become one of the worlds great companies.
Motivated and skilled people are essential to our success because they bring our brands to life.
Our people tell us they love our brands, believe in our strategy and are proud to work for us.
This is allowing us to deliver consistently high standards of service and higher revenues for hotel owners, says Tracy Robbins.
Brands at the heart of our business Great brands are at the heart of everything we do.
Our people are critical to our brand success as their passion, values and skills are crucial to the guest experience.
This year we further equipped our people to support the brands through development of our People Tools.
These help us to hire, train, involve and recognise employees against the values of each brand whether its Holiday Inns friendliness or InterContinentals understated service and style see the brand pages 7 to 14.
These tools were developed for our owned and managed estate and received great feedback.
Now working in partnership with hotel owners and the IAHI, we will offer them to all our hotels across the world.
Were not just a hotel business providing rooms were a people business providing memorable experiences for our guests in 100 countries and territories.
We attract and develop the best people using our People Tools and by creating a workplace in which our people can be themselves and are valued for their contributions.
When people love their jobs and feel proud of where they work, guest satisfaction increases and we drive higher returns for owners.
InterContinental New York Times Square, US Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Proud to work for IHG Human Resources & Group Operations Support Our employee survey in October showed that more of our people than ever understand our people strategy and love being part of IHG.
Over 96,000 people sent us their views with 93% saying they are proud to work for us.
Meanwhile, 91% of our people understand our core purpose to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
The survey also showed that our people feel more engaged with the company than they did a year ago.
Working smarter Ensuring our people have the right skills and knowledge gives us a competitive advantage.
This year we developed the IHG Way of Sales to build a common way of working across the sales discipline, build sales capacity and drive hotel performance.
This comprehensive online training for hotels ranges from quality programmes to systems and revenue management.
Today, we offer more online learning experiences for our employees than ever before, helping hotels control costs and reduce time away from the job.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Our people 17 more on the web: www.
com 2010 Awards Best 25 Big Companies to work for Sunday Times 2010 Britains Most Admired Companies Leisure and Hotels 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 Worlds BEST Learning & Development Organisation American Society for Training and Development 2010 Innovation in Recruitment Personnel Today 2010 Recruiting and developing talented people Winning Ways Edmond Tong: Events Operations Director, InterContinental Hong Kong We expect to open almost 1,300 hotels in the next few years.
To deliver Great Hotels Guests Love we will need to recruit around 160,000 people for our corporate offices and managed hotels.
There will also be even more opportunities available in our franchised hotels.
We use our online recruitment system at www.
jobs, as well Do the right thing as our Academy partnerships see page 22, in different regions to match the right candidates against the right roles.
Over 1.8 million people visited the site during 2010 and more than a million potential candidates have expressed an interest in working for us.
Our commitment to employees is to give them great training and to regularly review their progress so everyone will fulfil Show we care their potential.
Aim higher Great brands have great leaders This year we launched the Leadership Academy for members of our Leaders Lounge, an award-winning online community which shares ideas and best practice techniques.
The new Academy gives our leaders the opportunity to invest time in comprehensive 15-20 minute online training programmes, available on-demand.
Celebrate difference Meanwhile, the Leaders Lounge continued the success of the previous year with 88% of eligible employees visiting the site each month.
InterContinental Shenzhen, China The BEST place to learn The awards we win show that our People Tools are best in class Work better together and that we are a great company to work for.
Among our awards this year, we were named the Worlds BEST Learning & These five Development Organisation by the American Society for Training behaviours define and Development.
We were also named as a Sunday Times how we work Best 25 Big Companies to work for.
together to create Great Hotels Celebrating Service Guests Love.
A simple thank you can go a long way.
That was our experience in July 2010 when around 3,000 hotels and offices celebrated examples of great service.
Simple thank you notes were written by our colleagues worldwide and over 1,500 stories of great service were celebrated.
These ranged from the manager who hosted a wedding for 130 people with an hours notice, to one of our housekeepers who got a guest to a meeting on time Sharon by washing and ironing a stained shirt in just ten minutes.
In our October employee survey a record 93% of our people said theyre proud to work for us.
18 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 How we operate Global technology The effective use of the best technology is essential to our Vision of becoming one of the worlds great companies.
We are taking the industry lead in different areas, such as smartphone services, and are increasingly patenting our inventions and building a reputation as an innovative company.
Growing to meet demand Technology systems are the foundation for efficient sales and distribution.
Over the past few years demand for technological solutions in all areas of our business has grown massively.
We are now handling approximately 15 billion interactions with our business every year, more than twice the number three years ago.
At the same time we look to technology to help reduce IHGs operating costs.
Innovating in the mobile space Nothing demonstrates our ability to anticipate demand better than our pioneering use of mobile and smartphone services.
We were the first in our industry to introduce a popular mobile booking website.
This is now available in eight different languages.
We have added further innovations such as allowing mobile customers to check availability and book rooms in nearby hotels as well as view local maps and directions.
The popularity of location-based services is massive and gives us considerable revenue opportunities.
In December 2009 we achieved $400,000 in rooms revenue from mobile bookings globally.
By the following December we were achieving over $3.6 million for the month.
Euromonitor estimates that as many as 50% of the European population will be using these types of services by 2015 and the global picture is equally exciting.
Together with other mobile offerings, such as our Priority Club Rewards app see opposite, we are well placed to differentiate ourselves in this We continually push the competitive marketplace.
boundaries of technological innovation to stay ahead in our sector and meet the expectations of our people, owners and guests.
We anticipate trends and are fast to offer solutions.
It means we support our brands by making our services more accessible and attractive to guests.
It also makes our business easier to operate and more efficient, supporting our promise to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
Tom Conophy Chief Information Officer Mobile check-in Holiday Inn has introduced cutting-edge technology to allow guests to unlock their hotel room door with an audible tone from their mobile phone.
Trialled at the Holiday Inn Chicago OHare and the Holiday Inn Express Houston Convention Center, the technology bypasses front desk check-in and has been very well received by guests.
We are now looking to expand the pilot test globally over the next 12 months.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Global technology 19 more on the web: www.
com Searching for a beach hotel?
This year we introduced BOSS Bottom-Up Optimized Search Strategy, a patent pending technology that works behind the scenes to revolutionise the way people search for hotels.
We are handling over 50 million of these searches every day.
BOSS turns conventional searching on its head.
Traditionally, guests are prompted to search for a specific property or dates, repeating the search until they have narrowed down what they are looking for.
BOSS will enable guests to determine their own search criteria, whether a beach hotel or a major city, giving them the results they want quickly and easily.
By the end of 2010, 30% of all IHG Priority Club Rewards app room searches were undertaken by BOSS, with 100% planned In April 2010, we launched a Priority Club by the end of 2011.
Rewards app for the Apple iPhone which has Along with improving search capabilities, BOSS is an important already been downloaded nearly 200,000 element in helping us build IHGs reputation as a great company times.
And in July 2010, we launched the Priority Club Rewards app for Google by creating industry-changing patentable inventions.
Better customer targeting Magic, the marketing tool that helps us tailor campaigns to consumers, is producing great results for the business.
This year we used over 150 million guest profiles and 56 million Priority Club Rewards members to produce more targeted marketing campaigns.
Over the year, Magic campaigns generated $200 million in revenue, as compared to $90 million in 2009.
We are also using Magic for a new initiative, Guest Connect.
Three days before their stay, guests are sent a pre-stay email with information about the hotel they are visiting and our promotions.
The system allows hotels to select the most appropriate promotions for Priority Club Rewards Free Nights campaign their location, enabling our people to give guests a more personal service.
Unique guest services InterContinental hotels are pioneers in their use of the latest technology to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
We are the first hotel brand to offer destination-specific online concierge services globally and this year launched our free Concierge Insider Guides app.
The app is designed specifically for the Apple iPad and we are the first major hotel brand to make such an app available.
Our guests have always enjoyed the local knowledge of our concierge teams.
With a simple download, our guests can now prepare to enjoy a richer travel experience by tapping into the collective knowledge of InterContinental concierge teams in more than 140 destinations.
The concierge team at InterContinental Hong Kong ready to use their iPads to provide guests with local recommendations.
In 2010 we were second in InformationWeeks top 500 companies.
We were also recognised as a top 100 company by the Chief Information Officer 100 Awards.
20 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 How we operate Business reputation A great corporate reputation is central to our ability to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
Whether corporate governance, risk management, legal, health and safety, internal assurance or corporate responsibility, our stakeholders rely on us to do the right things.
Corporate governance We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of global corporate governance.
We achieve this by providing the right leadership, strategic oversight, knowledge tools and controls for our people so we fulfil all expectations, deliver a trusted service for guests and continue to drive value for our shareholders.
Ultimate responsibility for having the necessary robust processes and policies in place rests with the Board of Directors.
Our Board has an excellent balance of skills and experience, bringing together expertise in areas such as marketing, hotel management, franchising, strategy, finance and remuneration.
The Board is supported by a range of Committees, including Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Disclosure, as well as the functional teams of Global Internal Audit, Risk Management, Legal and Company Secretariat.
Responsible culture Responsibility extends from the boardroom to every hotel guest room so we equip the Having a great business reputation 335,000 people who work in our hotels and corporate offices around the world to all is a core asset.
It helps us delight live by our responsible business culture.
We have embedded policies in our day-to-day guests and attract shareholders.
operations, including our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Competition and Its also how we build trusting Anti-Bribery policies.
These are regularly and clearly communicated throughout relationships with business our business.
As our Code of Ethics states, IHGs reputation is built on the trust and partners, maintain the confidence of confidence of all our stakeholders.
This underpins our determination to be one of the the financial community and ensure worlds great companies.
were an employer of choice.
George Turner Management of risk Executive Vice President, Having an accurate and up-to-date risk strategy is essential to managing our key General Counsel risks.
We continually review our Global Risk Register and agree actions to mitigate and Company Secretary our current or emerging risks.
The Risk Management team reports twice a year to the Board, Executive and Audit Committees.
Members of our executive team and other senior management are responsible for managing risk across our offices and hotels and for applying strategies, prioritising awareness and delegating responsibility to cope with events that could undermine the reputation of the Group and our brands.
This involves, for example, safety and security, protection of personal and sensitive data and making the most of our use of third-party intermediaries.
Board insight We make sure that our non-executive Board members have first-hand knowledge of the challenges and opportunities we face in our business front-line.
During the year we held two non-executive visits to the Middle East and one to Atlanta, and well be hosting a tour of Greater China in 2011.
Visits like this supplement the range of business information we provide, ensuring Directors have up-to-date insight into our expanding global business.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Business reputation and responsibility 21 more on the web: www.
com Staying safe Hotel safety framework Providing our guests and visitors with an environment in which they feel safe The Safe Hotel wheel below illustrates and secure is the main focus of the Risk Management team.
Our emphasis on the groups of risks identified and actively managed by IHGs risk managers around the responsibility is core to promoting, maintaining and protecting the global reputation world.
The risk team work with hotels and of the business.
The team manages safety and security risks and ensures that our their management teams in order to minimise hotels comply with our own high standards, as well as local laws.
such risks and keep hotels safe and secure.
Our global standards have been recognised by the UKs Chartered Institute of Our holistic approach to risk means we are Environmental Health CIEH which this year awarded us its first global corporate able to maintain and develop management membership.
All our safety training, from Intermediate or Advanced Foundations strategies to assess and control individual to online risk training sessions, will be accredited or endorsed by the CIEH.
This has involved developing Jukes, CIEH Chief Executive, described us as a responsible corporate citizen one policies, standards and guidelines, raising that puts the safety of its customers and employees at the centre of everything it does.
awareness and training staff on controls and systems as well as reviewing and reporting on progress.
These management activities are described on the Manage InterContinental Nanjing, China Risk wheel below.
CRISIS & SECURITY INCIDENT FIRE LEISURE SAFETY SAFETY SAFE HOTEL GUEST FOOD SAFETY SAFETY STAFF SAFETY RISK POLICY & PROFILE STANDARDS Integrity of information With operations as complex and global as ours, spanning 100 countries and REVIEW WAYS OF & REPORT WORKING territories, robust privacy and data protection procedures are vital.
MANAGE RISK Our privacy programme is designed to keep customer information confidential.
RISK TRAINING In addition to our own strategy in 2010 we began to roll out compliance to Payment FINANCING & COMMS Card Industry PCI data protection standards.
This achieved PCI certification in our OPERATE & CONTROL corporate offices, data centres and owned hotels.
We are providing support and expertise as well as encouragement for both the managed and franchised estate to meet the same standards.
Dynamic assurance Global Internal Audit plays an important role in protecting our reputation.
The team, via our dynamic risk assessment process DRA, provides objective assurance and advice by developing an informed assessment of the Groups strategic and core risk profile and focusing resource on audit testing where risk matters most.
The DRA was crucial in providing independent ongoing assurance to the Audit Committee that appropriate controls were in place in 2010.
The risk management and training pages on our intranet attracted 187,000 hits from our people last year.
22 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 How we operate Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility CR is integral to the way we do business.
Our focused approach helps us with our strategy to innovate and collaborate with stakeholders.
This helps us create economic opportunities for communities and protect the environment.
It also allows us to manage costs, drive revenue and be prepared for the future.
A good business proposition Our approach sits at the We know that great companies care about the environment in which they operate.
heart of our business and is We also know that with over 4,400 hotels worldwide and almost 1,300 in the championed at the highest development pipeline, we have a tremendous opportunity to make a difference.
But level by our Board of Directors, making a difference also makes good business sense.
Our CR strategy focuses on the two areas where we can make the most difference: protecting the environment: supported by our global and creating economic opportunities for our communities.
Corporate Responsibility When we work with stakeholders to cut carbon emissions, for example, we do it not Committee, chaired by only because it is good for the environment but also to help us cut costs and drive Non-Executive Director, value for shareholders.
Similarly, when we open almost 1,300 hotels over the next Jennifer Laing.
few years we will be investing in training and development for almost half a million people.
This will support local economies as well as help us to attract a talented and committed workforce.
Innovation and collaboration We achieve our business objectives by innovating and collaborating.
A great example is Green Engage, our online sustainability tool.
This industry-leading system allows hotels to track, measure and report on their energy, water and waste.
It enables hotels to identify significant cost savings and reduce their environmental impacts without compromising the guest experience.
Since its launch in 2009, over 1,000 hotels and 2,000 individuals have registered to use the system, creating a green community within IHG.
The effectiveness of Green Engage is also demonstrated by the fact that LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design now endorses the system.
Supporting our communities With over 4,400 hotels in 100 countries and territories, we are well placed to lead from the front in promoting responsible tourism.
Through our new Community Strategy, developed in 2010, we are continuing our efforts to generate local economic opportunities, in particular through the IHG Academy.
Through Academy partnerships, we have joined forces with education providers and community organisations to provide hospitality training and job opportunities in the communities where we operate.
As well as creating jobs, the Academy partnerships We have been awarded the Carbon are helping to ensure we find great people in places where skilled employees can be Trust Standard in the UK for hard to find.
Involvement also gives our employees a chance to participate, make a showing real carbon reduction and difference and make sure we provide a consistent guest experience throughout a commitment to ongoing reductions.
We also have plans in place for the UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment.
In China alone we have worked with 23 partners in 10 locations, training more Our goal is to achieve energy savings than 4,800 students each year.
We are now working towards similar partnerships of between 6% and 10% in our owned in other countries.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Responsible business 23 more on the web: www.
com Joining forces We have joined forces with some of the worlds leading organisations in our mission to be a great company.
Our collaborations include Business in the Community, the International Tourism Partnership and Harvard University to make improvements in areas ranging from carbon emissions and conservation to labour and community projects.
We have also sponsored Oxford Universitys Plant Diversity Research Project to help us understand better how hotel design and development impacts the environment.
Great partnerships UN Global Compact Working together with National Geographics To support our responsible business strategy, Shelter in a storm Centre for Sustainable Development, we we are one of the first hotel companies to encourage a deeper appreciation of our world sign up to the UN Global Compact, the Hotels perform many functions.
They and inspire a passion for its preservation.
worlds largest corporate citizenship and are a place to celebrate, to do business In September 2010, we launched our first sustainability initiative.
This aligns our and to provide opportunities for InterContinental Responsible Business operations, culture and strategies with 10 employment.
When disaster strikes, Day, joining up the efforts of our 170 hotels to universally accepted principles in the areas they also provide shelter in a storm.
We Make a World of Difference.
Activities ranged of human rights, labour, environment and work with one of the worlds biggest aid from cleaning woods and parks to preserving anti-corruption.
agencies to develop a rapid, cohesive historical monuments so they can be enjoyed response strategy, including guidelines by our guests in years to come.
to help hotels make the best use of their resources in times of disaster.
Green matters Our research shows that many US and UK travellers prefer socially responsible hotels and are willing to pay for a greener stay.
With travellers expected to increase from 903 million people in 2007 to 1.6 billion in 2020 World Travel and Tourism Council, it is confirmation that our work to create green hotels is not only good for the environment, but good for our business.
The InterContinental New York Times Square opened in July 2010 with Mayor Michael Bloomberg cutting a green vine to signify the hotels green credentials.
IHG is the only hospitality company sponsoring Meeting Professionals International to provide resources and tools to make meetings as sustainable as possible.
24 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Where we operate Around the world IHG has over 4,400 hotels in 100 countries and territories.
Our brands are in 15 of the 20 largest hotel markets in the world.
When people travel, they look for familiar brands they know from home, increasing the demand for hotels that operate under our brands around the world.
Our three operating regions are the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, and Asia Pacific.
Americas Hotels Rooms InterContinental 56 19,120 Crowne Plaza 209 57,073 Holiday Inn 812 144,683 Holiday Inn Express 1,847 159,867 Holiday Inn Club Vacations 6 2,892 Hotel Indigo 35 4,254 Staybridge Suites 183 20,014 Candlewood Suites 288 28,253 Other 22 3,219 Total for Americas 3,458 439,375 Total development pipeline 890 102,509 find out more on page 26 Holiday Inn Chiangmai, Thailand OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Around the world 25 more on the web: www.
com 4,437 hotels globally 1,275 hotels in the pipeline 647,161 rooms globally 204,859 rooms in the pipeline Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms InterContinental 64 20,111 InterContinental 51 19,198 Crowne Plaza 98 22,941 Crowne Plaza 81 26,141 Holiday Inn 325 52,945 Holiday Inn 104 29,597 Holiday Inn Express 198 23,706 Holiday Inn Express 30 7,655 Hotel Indigo 2 110 Hotel Indigo 1 184 Staybridge Suites 5 748 Other 18 4,159 Other 2 291 Total for Asia Pacific 285 86,934 Total for EMEA 694 120,852 Total development pipeline 232 70,915 Total development pipeline 153 31,435 find out more on page 30 find out more on page 28 26 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Where we operate The Americas The quality of our hotels, the strength of our brands and our great people put us in exactly the right place to benefit from a sustainable economic recovery.
We enter 2011 in a position of strength, says Jim Abrahamson.
Regional performance Performance highlights 3 After a difficult 2009, we were cautious about the outlook for 2010.
But signs of an Revenue per available room 2 upturn came early in the second quarter with leisure trade improving through the year.
RevPAR up 4.9% With the return of business bookings in the third and fourth quarters, occupancy over Revenue up 5% to $807m the year grew 5.9%.
Operating profit A welcome rise in revenue per available room RevPAR was in the crucial midscale up 28% to $369m market which accounts for almost 70% of all our rooms.
Working with owners we were 1 Before exceptional items able to successfully relaunch Holiday Inn and encourage guests to stay more and pay more see page 11.
Number of rooms by business model Across all brands, and despite difficult economic conditions, we opened 194 new hotels No.
of Rooms and signed another 201.
Holiday Inn signings were strongest with 49 new hotels, up 4.3% on 2009.
The strong results are testimony to the hard work and leadership 1.
Franchised 392,536 throughout our Americas team.
Owned & leased 2,991 102,509 890 439,375 3,458 Hotels in Rooms in pipeline pipeline Hotels Rooms InterContinental New York Times Square, US open open United States Quality hotels in quality markets, such as New York, Chicago and San Francisco, led our performance.
Having signed more deals with leading investors than any hotel group, our share of the pipeline reached 20% against our current market share of 8%.
Our strategy to convert hotels to IHG brands has allowed us to widen our portfolio.
We re-entered the important Hawaii market with the Holiday Inn Beachcomber Resort in Waikiki Beach and formed an InterContinental Alliance with Las Vegas Sands Corp. to bring the Venetian and Palazzo resorts into our system.
In all, we opened 172 hotels and signed 165 more.
Canada The sub-prime lending crisis affected Canada far less than the US.
We opened 12 hotels and added 9 to the pipeline, increasing our pipeline and reach, especially in major markets like Montreal and Toronto, where our performance remained solid.
We also signed our third Canadian Hotel Indigo, in Vancouver.
All IHG brands are well-positioned for future growth in this important market.
Latin America and Mexico With the opening of 10 hotels, we now have 194 hotels in 21 countries and territories in Mexico and Latin America, and 68 in the pipeline.
We celebrated a milestone with Holiday Inns 40th Anniversary in Mexico.
Crowne Plaza and Staybridge Suites made their debuts in Quertaro, central Mexico.
In Latin America we opened a number of new hotels including the InterContinental in Mendoza, Argentina, Holiday Inn Express Cuiaba in Brazil and Crowne Plaza in San Salvador.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES The Americas 27 more on the web: www.
com Speaking out for travel and tourism It was an important year for public policy in the US.
We played an influential role in conjunction with the US Travel Association in helping secure the Travel Promotion Act in March 2010.
This paved the way for the Corporation for Travel Promotion CTP.
CTP will invest around $400 million in public-private funds to encourage travel to the US.
We also continued our work with the American Hotel & Lodging Association AHLA and the US Our confidence in our Travel Association to successfully fight regulatory challenges strategy to build the and put forward solutions to improve the inbound visitor quality of our hotels and experience.
increase market share means we enter 2011 in Buying together is better a position of strength.
We work with our Owners Association, the IAHI, to find ways to Our focus on guest help owners improve the guest experience and run their hotels preference, performance more profitably.
In 2010 we launched InnSupply, a new web-based and profitability will procurement plan for franchisees in the US and Canada.
equips owners with the collective buying power of our system and Jim Abrahamson the ability to buy hotel goods more efficiently.
As Bill DeForrest President, The Americas says on page 5, the savings to owners in dollars and time should be significant.
The Venetian Resort Hotel, Las Vegas Waikiki Beach, Hawaii Venetian and Palazzo Aloha again, Hawaii We were delighted to announce the Holiday Inn returned to Hawaii after signing of a 10-year agreement with a short absence when the Waikiki Las Vegas Sands Corp. to affiliate the Beachcomber Resort joined our system.
renowned Venetian and Palazzo with The resort, owned and managed by InterContinental Hotels & Resorts.
The Outrigger Enterprises, has been given resorts offer our guests more than 6,800 a $30 million renovation and will be luxurious all-suite rooms, as well as a major attraction for Priority Club world-class entertainment and business Rewards members.
facilities in one of the most requested destinations for our 56 million Priority Club Rewards members.
Las Vegas Sands Corp. called the partnership a perfect marriage between two world-class resorts and one of the most prominent hotel companies in the world.
The Palazzo was ranked first among Las Vegas hotels in Travel & Leisures World Best Awards 2010.
28 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Where we operate Europe, Middle East and Africa New hotels and signings demonstrated the appeal of our brands in existing and new markets, allowing us to continue to build scale and grow our business, says Kirk Kinsell.
Regional performance Performa3nce highlights Occupancy growth led our revenue per available room RevPAR recovery in 2010 while Revenue per available room 2 rate growth, the first for two years, began to emerge in the summer.
This was driven by RevPAR up 6.1% business guests making a more regular comeback by the end of the year, particularly Revenue up 4% to $414m in major cities like London.
Operating profit decreased Higher guest spending in Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels also boosted 2% to $125m performance, with refreshed hotels posting RevPAR gains of 7.1%.
In all we opened 1 Before exceptional items 33 hotels and we have 153 hotels in our development pipeline across this diverse region.
Number of rooms by business model Signings No.
of Rooms As expected, our rate of openings slowed but our pipeline grew.
We signed deals to open Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels in locations as diverse as Canary Wharf 1.
Franchised 79,950 in London and Ekaterinburg in Russia.
Meanwhile, we signed with partners to launch 2.
Managed 39,456 Crowne Plaza in Istanbul, St. Petersburg and Amsterdam and have Hotel Indigo set to debut in Madrid, Lisbon, Newcastle and Berlin over the next four years.
Owned & leased 1,446 opening our first Staybridge Suites in London at the Westfield Stratford City shopping centre, the gateway to the Olympic Village, where we will also open a Holiday Inn.
United Kingdom The UK remains one of our fastest growing markets with 12 openings 153 in 2010 and 31 in the pipeline.
New openings included the Holiday Inn Manchester- 31,435 694 MediaCityUK, where thousands of BBC employees will relocate and our second 120,852 Hotel Indigo in London, near Tower Bridge.
Meanwhile, our biggest UK partner, LRG, refreshed all its 57 Holiday Inn brand properties by the summer.
This includes the Kensington Forum in London, Europes largest Holiday Inn.
Germany and France RevPAR in Germany rose 18.4%, thanks to a recovery in corporate bookings.
We also enjoyed strong RevPAR performance in France of 9%.
Hotels in Rooms in Both markets were helped by government intervention to reduce VAT on hotel stays pipeline pipeline to stimulate demand and create thousands of new jobs.
Hotels Rooms open open Staybridge Suites Abu Dhabi Yas Island, UAE Middle East and Turkey We continued our leadership position in the Middle East.
We opened two hotels this year, including the regions largest Holiday Inn Express, a 381-room property at Dubai Airport.
The regions GDP growth is outpacing the rest of the world, offering great revenue opportunities.
Our aim is to open another 38 Middle East hotels by 2020.
In Turkey, a new frontier and fast growing market for us, we signed deals in Istanbul for two Holiday Inn Express hotels and a Crowne Plaza.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Europe, Middle East and Africa 29 more on the web: www.
com Reaching out to more owners We are keen to help owners improve the guest experience and operate more efficiently, not least in struggling economies such as Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain.
In a bid to support franchisees and owners in diverse and often challenging markets, we staged business performance meetings in eight locations across the region.
High on the agenda were compliance with our brand standards: use of our business tools: and issues of cost management.
These initiatives, alongside strong financial returns are helping Our strategy has been to us attract new owners.
Under its EMEA Chairman Joep Peeters anticipate and take advantage leadership, IAHI membership reached 86% in the region in of the upturn.
We achieved this 2010, the highest figure globally.
Joep called the achievement by signing the right deals in the a great success at our biggest owners conference, which right locations with the right took place in Cairo.
owners, while also improving the guest experience.
We are Taking tourism more seriously building a profitable future for We are working with stakeholders including the British our owners and great hotels Hospitality Association to help the UK Government develop its for our guests.
Our key message is that our industry plays a Kirk Kinsell major part in helping stimulate economic growth.
Prime Minister, President, Europe, David Cameron, has now recognised that every 0.5% increase in Middle East and Africa the countrys 3.5% share of the world tourism market can add 2.7 billion to the economy and more than 50,000 jobs.
Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, Official Hotel Services Provider London 2012 Denmark London 2012 Crowne Plaza guests go electric Holiday Inn is being recognised on the world stage as official At the 366-room Crowne Plaza Hotel Services Provider for the London 2012 Olympic and Copenhagen Towers, one of the worlds Paralympic Games.
We are playing a key role in the preparation greenest hotels, we took energy production and running of the Games.
As well as opening two hotels one step further by installing  the Olympic Park, a Staybridge Suites and a Holiday producing bicycles in the gym for guests Inn, we will be providing accommodation in up to 39 UK locations to use.
Anyone producing 10 watt hours for the Olympic Torch Relay.
We are also offering up to 120 of of electricity or more for the hotel was our best people the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to help the given a locally-produced complimentary organising committee LOCOG manage the Athletes Village.
This encouraged guests not only We have also offered our help to British athletes and their to get fit but also reduce their carbon coaching staff and families to stay for free when they visit our footprint, saving electricity and money.
And we will be supporting more than Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is 15 aspiring athletes by providing them with the chance to gain a member of the UN Global Compact.
valuable work experience in our hotels across the world.
We It has EU Green Building and Green are looking forward to helping host around 250,000 OlympicsKey certification and aims to become related guests in the run-up to the Games.
InterContinental London Park Lane was crowned winner of Cond Nast Travellers 2010 Gold List Award for Best UK Hotel for Food.
30 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Where we operate Asia Pacific Our Asia Pacific business is comprised of two operations: Asia Australasia and Greater China.
In 2010 both teams focused on growth opportunities and announced a number of exciting new hotel openings and signings.
Asia Australasia Asia Australasia enjoyed improvement in travel and tourism during 2010 with revenue per available room RevPAR increasing by 5.6%.
Corporate bookings and business travel returned and major events, such as the Commonwealth Games in Delhi, contributed to inbound tourism.
We are poised to expand further in key markets in one of the worlds fastest growing regions.
Crowne Plaza New Delhi Rohini, India We enjoyed a strong year and are India promises room for growth now set to increase our presence We have 12 hotels and nearly 50 years experience of working in India.
A strong in India and the emerging markets economy coupled with a rapidly expanding middle class means the country offers longin Indochina.
The strength of our term growth potential.
We aim to grow quickly with our current pipeline of 44 hotels.
brands and system, coupled with During 2010 we signed six new properties with the Amrapali Group, who will launch the favourable underlying economic Holiday Inn Express brand in the country.
This debut will help us meet demand for high conditions in the region, give us quality hotels in Indias limited service sector.
We expect to be operating 150 hotels growth opportunities to create by 2020 with the Holiday Inn brand family leading that growth.
more Great Hotels Guests Love.
Jan Smits New opportunities in Southeast Asia Managing Director, We are now set to offer five brands in Bangkok by 2013.
We opened Crowne Plaza Asia Australasia Bangkok Lumpini Park in late 2010 and the citys first Holiday Inn Express will welcome guests by 2012, followed by Hotel Indigo in 2013.
Emerging markets in Indochina, such Holiday Inn Express gains territory as Vietnam, also offer solid growth opportunities.
This year we signed two new Holiday Partnering with the Chee Swee Inn Resorts for prime beachfront locations in Vietnams top tourist destinations, Cam Cheng group of companies we Ranh Bay and Phu Quoc.
launched Holiday Inn Express in Singapore and Malaysia.
Resorts poised to flourish Singapore will also offer Southeast Home to some of the most desirable travel destinations, Asia Australasia supports Asias largest Holiday Inn Express, a strong resort strategy.
We have 10 new resorts in development across the region, following a deal with RB Capital putting our brands on the map in some of the regions most idyllic and culturally Hotels for us to manage a newrich locations.
We will be adding the InterContinental Danang Resort and Holiday Inn build 400-room property in the Phuket Mai Khao Beach Resort to our current portfolio of resorts in French Polynesia, central business district.
Fiji, Thailand, Bali and the Maldives.
In 2010 Holiday Inn was voted Best Mid-Market Hotel Brand in Asia Pacific for the 10th year running at the 2010 Business Traveller Asia Pacific Awards.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Asia Pacific 31 more on the web: www.
com 232 70,915 Asia Pacific Performance highlights Number of rooms by business model 285 86,934 Revenue per available room No.
Managed 79,407 Hotels in Rooms in Operating profit pipeline pipeline 3.
Owned & leased 693 up 71% to $89m Hotels Rooms Before exceptional items open open Greater China We were the first international hotel operator to enter China.
We arrived in 1984 and today enjoy a leadership position.
We already have a business in mainland China generating over US$1 billion in total gross revenue and we represent 14% of the branded hotel sector and 28% of the development pipeline.
Chinas economy is expected to expand significantly over the coming years with the hotel sector becoming the worlds largest by 2025.
This gives us the opportunity to double our size over the next five years.
It was an exceptional year for us, thanks to the strength of the economy and our growth strategy to develop the right brands in the right places with the right owners.
We saw significant RevPAR growth in 2010, averaging 25.8% for the year.
We continued to grow our presence in Beijing and Shanghai and now also have more than one brand operating in many large secondary cities such as Chongqing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, Tianjin and Suzhou.
Over the year we opened 24 hotels in 17 different cities, including six InterContinental and seven Crowne Plaza properties.
We also agreed Asia Pacifics first Hotel Indigo, Shanghai on the Bund.
We now have hotels in 44 cities across mainland China.
We also signed a multi-brand, multi-property deal with HNA Hotels & Resorts Group, one of Chinas fast emerging hotel companies.
This adds 1,300 rooms to our development pipeline.
And having signed four deals at the Hotel Investment Conference Asia Pacific we are set to open Hotel Indigo and Holiday Inn Express hotels in the coastal cities of Taipei, Xiamen and Hong Kong.
We will have more than 300 hotels operating in China in five years time, reinforcing our leadership in the region.
The opportunity for us in Greater Stay You, Great Wall of China China is phenomenal.
We are long-established as the leading international hotel operator in the region and have built a broad portfolio of strong brands in key locations.
We have set out plans to double in size over the next five years.
Keith Barr Managing Director, Greater China Shanghai welcomes the world The new 400-room InterContinental Shanghai Expo opened in April in time to welcome over 73 million Great Wall hosts Stay You gallery visitors to World Expo.
Built right The first photo exhibition ever staged at the Great Wall of China marked the start next to the World Expo Park in of Holiday Inns global Stay You campaign.
We invited enthusiasts worldwide to Pudong, it is the closest world class submit photos of people being themselves.
Nearly 10,000 entries competed for pride hotel to the site.
World Expo, which of place.
The panel of judges chose 100 winning photos to hang alongside the work lasted for six months, boosted of 50 famous photographers from China and abroad.
Another 300 photos went on RevPAR in our 23 hotels across the display in 15 Chinese cities, including a special collection shot by Holiday Inn staff.
city with some owners reporting rises in excess of 100%.
32 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Facts and figures Summary financial statement This Summary Financial Statement provides a commentary on the performance of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2010.
Group results Revenue increased by 5.9% to $1,628m and operating profit before exceptional items increased by 22.3% to $444m during the 12 months ended 31 December 2010.
The 2010 results reflect a return to RevPAR growth in a recovering market, with an overall RevPAR increase of 6.2% led by occupancy.
Fourth quarter comparable RevPAR increased 8.0% against 2009, including a 2.4% increase in average daily rate.
Over the full year average daily rate grew for the InterContinental and Holiday Inn brands by 1.3% and 0.5% respectively.
In 2010 the InterContinental Buckhead, Atlanta and the Holiday Inn Lexington were sold, with proceeds used to reduce net debt.
These disposals result in a reduction in owned and leased revenue and operating profit of $19m and $4m respectively compared to 2009.
The ongoing focus on efficiency across the Group largely sustained underlying cost reductions achieved in 2009.
Regional and central overheads increased by $49m, from $209m in 2009 to $258m in 2010, driven by incremental performance-based incentive costs of $47m and charges of $4m relating to a self-insured healthcare benefit plan.
Richard Solomons During 2010, the IHG global system remained in line with 2009 at 4,437 hotels 647,161 Chief Financial Officer and rooms.
Openings of 259 hotels 35,744 rooms were driven, in particular, by continued Head of Commercial Development expansion in the US and China and offset the removal of 260 hotels 35,262 rooms.
The Global Finance team comprises a In Asia Pacific, demand for upscale brands InterContinental, Crowne Plaza and Hotel number of disciplines that support the Indigo contributed 65% of total room openings in the region.
delivery of Great Hotels Guests Love.
The $1bn roll-out of the Holiday Inn relaunch is substantially complete, enabling the The team not only ensures that the consistent delivery of best-in-class service and physical quality in all Holiday Inn and Group has a robust governance and Holiday Inn Express hotels.
By 31 December 2010, 2,956 hotels were converted globally control framework around its financial under the relaunch programme, representing 89% of the total estate.
systems and financial statements At the end of 2010, the pipeline totalled 1,275 hotels 204,859 rooms.
Signings of but it also supports all areas of the 319 hotels 55,598 rooms represent an increase in rooms signed from 2009 levels.
business giving proactive and relevant Demonstrating the continued demand for IHG brands globally, 50% of the rooms financial and strategic input.
pipeline is now outside the Americas region.
There were 25 hotel signings 3,025 Global Finance is continually rooms for Hotel Indigo as it gains real momentum in Europe and Asia Pacific looking for ways to improve, with key where, together, 12 hotels 1,456 rooms were signed.
IHG also entered into an initiatives being delivered through InterContinental Alliance relationship with the Las Vegas Sands Corp. to bring the our Global Finance Transformation 6,874 all-suite Venetian and Palazzo Resorts into the system in 2011. framework that includes a team dedicated to prioritising, reporting Americas results and project managing a number Revenue and operating profit before exceptional items increased by $35m to $807m of multi-year projects.
achievements in 2010 included: delivery of procurement efficiencies Franchised revenue increased by $28m to $465m 6.4% and operating profit by $28m across the business: to $392m 7.7%.
Royalties growth was driven by RevPAR gains across all brands and an innovative finance education by 4.5% in total.
Non-royalty revenues and profits remained flat on 2009, as real estate programme with over 2,300 financing for new activity remained constrained.
employees taking over 15,000 Managed revenue increased by $9m to $119m 8.2% in line with the RevPAR growth of online training sessions: 7.5%.
Operating profit increased by $61m to $21m from a $40m loss in 2009.
The prior further consolidation and migration year loss included a charge for priority guarantee shortfalls relating to a portfolio of of finance processes to our hotels.
A provision for onerous contracts was established on 31 December 2009 and business service centre in India: further payments made during 2010 were charged against this provision.
Excluding the implementation of new systems for effect of the provision, managed operating profit increased by $3m, driven by RevPAR financial and tax reporting: and growth of 23.3% in Latin America.
reviews of business processes to highlight potential improvement areas.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary financial statement 33 Owned and leased revenue declined by $2m to $223m 0.9% Central results and operating profit increased by $2m to $13m 18.2%.
During 2010, net central costs increased by $35m from Improving trading conditions led to RevPAR growth of 6.4%, $104m to $139m 33.7%.
The movement was primarily driven including 8.1% at the InterContinental New York Barclay.
by an increase in performance-based incentive costs where no payments were made on some plans in 2009.
EMEA results Revenue increased by $17m to $414m 4.3% and operating Other financial items profit before exceptional items decreased by $2m to $125m Exceptional operating items of $15m consisted of gains of $35m 1.6%.
from the disposal of assets, including $27m profit on the sale of Franchised revenue and operating profit decreased by $2m to the InterContinental Buckhead, Atlanta offset by an impairment $81m 2.4% and $1m to $59m 1.7% respectively.
Excluding the charge of $7m, severance costs of $4m and costs of $9m to impact of $3m in liquidated damages received in 2009, revenue complete the Holiday Inn brand family relaunch.
and operating profit increased by 1.3% and 3.5% respectively.
Compared with the previous year, exceptional operating items The underlying increase was driven by RevPAR growth of 7.6% were significantly lower as 2009 was impacted by difficult across the franchised estate.
trading which resulted in exceptional costs of $373m, largely EMEA managed revenue increased by $11m to $130m 9.2% down to the recognition of impairment charges, an onerous and operating profit decreased by $3m to $62m 4.6%.
Positive contract provision and the cost of office closures.
RevPAR growth in key European cities and markets, including Net financial expenses increased from $54m in 2009 to $62m growth of 14.8% in IHGs managed properties in Germany, was in 2010, as the effect of the 250m 6% bond offset lower net debt offset by unfavourable trading across much of the Middle East levels and low interest rates.
Average net debt levels in 2010 where RevPAR declined overall by 0.7%.
At the year end, a were lower than 2009 primarily as a result of improved trading, provision of $3m was made for future estimated cash outflows the disposal of the InterContinental Buckhead, Atlanta and a relating to guarantee obligations for one hotel.
In the owned and leased estate, revenue increased by $8m to The effective rate of tax was 26% 2009 5%.
$203m 4.1% and operating profit increased by $7m to $40m Basic earnings per ordinary share in 2010 was 101.7, compared 21.2%.
RevPAR growth of 11.9% benefited from average daily with 74.7 in 2009.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share was rate growth of 6.5% across the year.
London Park Lane and InterContinental Paris Le Grand The Board has proposed a final dividend per ordinary share of delivered strong year-on-year RevPAR growth of 15.0% and 35.2 22.0p.
With the interim dividend per ordinary share of 11.5% respectively.
12.8 8.0p, the full-year dividend per ordinary share for 2010 will total 48.0 30.0p.
Asia Pacific results Asia Pacific revenue and operating profit before exceptional Capital structure and liquidity management items increased by $58m to $303m 23.7% and by $37m to In 2010, the Group continued its focus on cash management.
During the year, $462m of cash was generated from operating Continued strong economic growth in the region was given a activities and overall, net debt decreased by $349m to $743m.
further boost by the World Expo held in Shanghai from May to In December 2009, the Group issued a seven-year 250m public October 2010.
Resulting RevPAR growth in key Chinese cities bond, at a coupon of 6%, which was initially priced at 99.465% of was exceptional, with Shanghai and Beijing growing 55.9% and face value.
Franchised revenue increased by $1m to $12m 9.1% and operating profit grew by $2m to $7m 40.0%.
Managed revenue increased by $50m to $155m 47.6% and operating profit increased by $29m to $73m 65.9%.
In addition This Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Board to strong comparable RevPAR performance, there was a on 14 February 2011 and signed on its behalf by Richard Solomons.
positive contribution from recently opened hotels, with a 9% It does not contain sufficient information to provide as complete room increase in the size of the Asia Pacific managed estate an understanding of the Groups results and state of affairs as that during the year following a 10.0% increase in 2009, and a $4m provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010.
That operating profit benefit due to the collection of old or previously report may be obtained, free of charge, by writing to IHG or the provided for debts.
Companys Registrar, Equiniti contact details are provided on In the owned and leased estate, revenue increased by $7m to page 45.
The auditors have issued an unqualified report on the financial These results were driven by the InterContinental Hong Kong, statements containing no statement under Section 498 2 or 498 3 where RevPAR increased 15.3% during the year.
Information concerning Directors emoluments is shown on pages 40 to 43.
34 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Facts and figures Summary financial statement continued Independent auditors statement to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have examined the Summary Financial Statement for the year ended Headlines, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Business Reviews, 31 December 2010 which comprises the Group income statement, Group Summary Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Summary Audit statement of cash flows and Group statement of financial position.
Committee Report and Summary Remuneration Report.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing accordance with Section 428 4 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has Practices Board.
Our report on the Companys full annual financial statements been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters describes the basis of our opinion on those financial statements, the Directors we are required to state to them in an auditors statement and for no other purpose.
Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Opinion to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full annual audit work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Respective responsibilities of Directors and the auditor Report of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 428 of the Companies Financial Statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 14 February 2011.
Financial Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement Directors statement with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and The auditor has issued unqualified reports on the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and on the consistency 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
of the Directors Report with those annual financial statements.
Their report We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary on the full annual financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become Remuneration Report contained no statement under Sections 498 2 or 498 3 aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the of the Companies Act 2006.
The other information comprises only the Group income statement 2010 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total For the year ended 31 December 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue Americas 807 807 772 772 EMEA 414 414 397 397 Asia Pacific 303 303 245 245 Central 104 104 124 124 Total revenue 1,628 1,628 1,538 1,538 Operating profit loss Americas 369 14 383 288 301 13 EMEA 125 3 128 127 22 105 Asia Pacific 89 2 87 52 7 45 Central 139 139 104 43 147 Operating profit loss 444 15 459 363 373 10 Net finance costs 62 62 54 54 Profit loss before tax 382 15 397 309 373 64 Tax 98 8 106 15 287 272 Profit for the year from continuing operations 284 7 291 294 86 208 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 2 2 6 6 Profit for the year 284 9 293 294 80 214 Earnings per ordinary share cents Basic continuing operations 101.0 72.6 Adjusted continuing operations 98.6 102.8 Basic total operations 101.7 74.7 Adjusted total operations 98.6 102.8 Dividend per share cents Final paid in respect of prior year 29.2 29.2 Interim paid 12.8 12.2 Final proposed 35.2 29.2 OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary financial statement 35 Group statement of cash flows 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December 2010 $m $m Cash flow from operations 583 484 Net interest paid 57 51 Tax paid on operating activities 64 1 Net cash from operating activities 462 432 Capital expenditure 95 148 Proceeds from disposal of operations, associates and other financial assets 135 35 Tax paid on disposals 4 1 Dividends paid to shareholders 121 118 Decrease in borrowings 292 249 Other financing movements 34 5 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents in the year 51 44 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 40 82 Exchange rate effects 13 2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 78 40 Group statement of financial position 2010 2009 31 December 2010 $m $m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 1,690 1,836 Goodwill 92 82 Intangible assets 266 274 Investment in associates 43 45 Retirement benefit assets 5 12 Other financial assets 135 130 Deferred tax assets 79 95 Total non-current assets 2,310 2,474 Inventories 4 4 Trade and other receivables 371 335 Current tax receivable 13 35 Cash and cash equivalents 78 40 Other financial assets 5 Total current assets 466 419 Total assets 2,776 2,893 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 18 106 Derivative financial instruments 6 7 Trade and other payables 722 668 Provisions 8 65 Current tax payable 167 194 Total current liabilities 921 1,040 Loans and other borrowings 776 1,016 Derivative financial instruments 38 13 Retirement benefit obligations 200 142 Trade and other payables 464 408 Provisions 2 Deferred tax payable 84 118 Total non-current liabilities 1,564 1,697 Total liabilities 2,485 2,737 Net assets 291 156 IHG shareholders equity 284 149 Non-controlling interest 7 7 Total equity 291 156 36 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Facts and figures Our senior leadership team Non-Executives David Webster Ralph Kugler Ying Yeh Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed a Director in December 2007.
Vice President and Chairman, Greater Appointed a Director in April 2003.
Appointed Non-Executive Chairman Chairman of Byotrol plc, a Non-Executive China Region, Nalco Company.
Previously Chairman and President, North Asia in January 2004.
Also Non-Executive Director of Discovery Group Holdings Ltd, Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, a Director of Spotless Holding Sas, Board Region, President, Business Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, a Non-Executive Director of Amadeus Adviser at Mars, Incorporated, and Senior IT Holding SA and a Director of Temple Adviser to 3i plc.
Formerly an Executive Eastman Kodak Company.
Also a NonExecutive Director of AB Volvo.
Formerly Director of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. Chairman of Safeway plc.
A Non-Executive Director and a member David Kappler Jennifer Laing of the Nomination Committee # # Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director An independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit, Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Corporate and Nomination Committees Appointed a Director and Senior Responsibility Committee An independent Non-Executive Director Independent Director in June 2004.
He Appointed a Director in August 2005.
Has and a member of the Audit, Nomination is also a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
over 30 years experience in advertising and Corporate Responsibility Committees Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury and was, until 2007, Associate Dean, An independent Non-Executive Director Schweppes plc and Non-Executive External Relations at London Business and a member of the Audit, Remuneration, Chairman of Premier Foods plc.
Also serves as a Non-Executive Nomination and Corporate Responsibility of the Trilantic Europe Advisory Council.
Director of Hudson Highland Group, Inc.
An independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Remuneration and Graham Allan Jonathan Linen Nomination Committees Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A member of the Executive Committee Appointed a Director in January 2010.
Not a main Board Director Chief Executive Officer of Yum!
Restaurants Was formerly Vice Chairman of the International YRI, a subsidiary of Yum!
Previously President of YRI Non-Executive Director of Yum!
Inc. and of Modern Bank, N. A. and on a number of US Councils and advisory boards.
From left to right: Graham Allan, David Webster, Jonathan Linen, Ying Yeh, David Kappler, Ralph Kugler, Jennifer Laing, James Abrahamson, OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Our senior leadership team 37 Executives Andrew Cosslett Kirk Kinsell Richard Solomons Chief Executive President, EMEA Chief Financial Officer and Appointed Chief Executive in February Appointed a Director in August 2010.
Previously at Cadbury Schweppes Joined the Group in 2002.
Appointed Joined the Group in 1992.
Responsible plc, where he was most recently President, President, EMEA and an Executive for corporate and regional finance, Group Europe, Middle East & Africa.
Responsible financial control, strategy, investor on the Executive Committee of the for the business development and relations, tax, treasury, commercial World Travel & Tourism Council and the performance of all the hotel brands and development and procurement.
Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Age 55. properties in the EMEA region.
George Turner James Abrahamson Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, President, The Americas Executive Vice President, Human Resources General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed a Director in August 2010.
& Group Operations Support Joined the Group in September 2008 Joined the Group as an Executive Joined the Group in December 2005 from Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
Committee member with responsibility from Compass Group PLC.
Responsible Appointed Executive Vice President, for the Americas Region in January for global talent management, leadership General Counsel and Company Secretary 2009 from Global Hyatt Corporation.
development, reward strategy, in January 2009.
Responsible for Responsible for the business development organisational capability and operations corporate governance, risk management, and performance of all the hotel brands support.
Age 47. insurance, data privacy, internal audit, and properties in the Americas region.
company secretariat, legal and corporate Tom Seddon Age 55. responsibility & public affairs.
Executive Vice President and Tom Conophy In addition, IHG has a strong management Chief Marketing Officer team who report into the IHG Senior Executive Vice President and Having served in senior positions with Leadership Team.
Jan Smits is Managing Chief Information Officer IHGs predecessor companies until 2004, Director, Asia Australasia, and Keith Barr Joined the Group in February 2006 from rejoined the Group in 2007 from SUBWAY.
is Managing Director, Greater China, both Starwood Hotels & Resorts International.
Responsible for worldwide brand reporting directly to Andrew Cosslett Responsible for global technology, management, global sales, marketing who has overall responsibility for the including IT systems and information and loyalty programmes.
Tom Seddon, Tom Conophy, Kirk Kinsell, Andrew Cosslett, Tracy Robbins, Richard Solomons and George Turner.
38 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Facts and figures Summary Directors report Activities of the Group The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts, with Details of the beneficial share interests of Directors who were on franchising, management, ownership and leasehold interests in the Board at the year end are shown below.
over 4,400 establishments, with more than 640,000 guest rooms in 100 countries and territories around the world.
31 December 2010 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC A review of the performance of the Group is contained in the ordinary shares Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review on pages Executive Directors 3 to 5, the reviews presented on pages 6 to 31 and in the Summary James Abrahamson 52,203 Financial Statement on pages 32 to 35.
Andrew Cosslett 496,133 1 Kirk Kinsell 63,136 Results and dividends Richard Solomons 171,522 The operating profit before exceptional items was $444m.
An interim Non-Executive Directors dividend of 8.0p per share was paid on 1 October 2010.
The Directors Graham Allan 2,000 are recommending a final dividend of 22.0p per share to be paid on 3 June 2011 to shareholders on the Register at close of business David Kappler 1,400 on 25 March 2011.
Ralph Kugler 1,169 Jennifer Laing 3,998 Share capital 2 Jonathan Linen 7,343 At 31 December 2010, the Companys issued share capital consisted David Webster 34,905 29 of 289,472,651 ordinary shares of 13 47p each.
There are no special Ying Yeh control rights or restrictions on transfer attaching to these 1 62,499 ordinary shares and 637 American Depositary Receipts.
2 Held in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
During the year, no awards or grants over shares were made that would be dilutive of the Companys ordinary share capital.
Employees Share repurchases IHG directly employed an average of 7,858 people worldwide during No shares were purchased or cancelled under the authority 2010, whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole IHG granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on estate is taken into account, approximately 335,000 people are 28 May 2010.
The share buyback authority remains in force until employed globally across IHGs brands.
The Group is committed to the Annual General Meeting in 2011, and a resolution to renew providing staff with equality of opportunity, without discrimination.
the authority will be put to shareholders at that Meeting.
Great emphasis is placed on employee communications, particularly on matters relating to the Groups business and its performance.
Substantial shareholdings As at 14 February 2011, the Company had been notified of the Donations following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares: During the year, the Group donated $1,650,000 in support of community initiatives and charitable causes.
This figure includes Cedar Rock Capital Limited 5.07% Direct interest contributions from IHG employees and guests.
No payments BlackRock, Inc. 5.02% Indirect interest were made for political purposes.
Capital Research and Auditors Management Company 5.02% Indirect interest Legal & General Group plc 3.96% Direct interest The Directors confirm that they have taken steps to make themselves aware of relevant audit information.
None of the Directors is aware of any relevant audit information which has Directors not been disclosed to the auditors.
Details of current Board members are shown on pages 36 and 37.
The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Executive Directors have service contracts and Non-Executive Company will be put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors have letters of appointment.
Annual General Meeting The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Group The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00am on maintains insurance cover for and has provided indemnities to its Friday, 27 May 2011 is contained in a circular sent to shareholders Directors and officers, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. at the same time as this Review.
Going concern At the end of 2010, the Group was trading comfortably within its banking covenants and debt facilities.
IHGs fee-based model and wide geographic spread means that it is well placed to manage through uncertain times.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 have therefore been prepared on the going concern basis.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary Directors report and Corporate governance 39 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set out It was concluded that the Board as a whole operates in an effective in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code manner, and that each Director continues to make an effective and considers that the Company has complied with its requirements contribution and retains a strong commitment to the role.
The work throughout the year ended 31 December 2010. of each main Committee was also considered to be effective.
A revised UK Corporate Governance Code the new UK Code Although IHG is not yet subject to the recommendation of the new has been introduced for financial years beginning on or after UK Code that all Directors submit themselves for re-election by 29 June 2010.
IHG will report on its compliance with the new shareholders annually, the Company is adopting this practice with UK Code as part of its 2011 Corporate Governance statement.
effect from its next Annual General Meeting in May 2011.
Control environment Senior Independent Director The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
His role includes being available to liaise with shareholders to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the who have issues to raise.
procedures necessary to apply the Combined Code, including clear Company Secretary operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company For the year ended 31 December 2010, the Board has conducted a Secretary.
His responsibilities include advising the Board on review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and corporate governance, and for ensuring good information flows to internal control.
The system is designed to manage, rather than the Board and its Committees and between senior management eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it and the Non-Executive Directors.
He also facilitates the induction can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against of new Directors.
Whilst areas for improvement have been identified and actions initiated, no significant shortcomings Shareholder relations have been identified from the annual assessment.
The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and releases quarterly results.
In addition, regular meetings are held Board and Committees with major institutional shareholders to discuss progress of the The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are It also ensures that the necessary financial and human resources available to meet with major shareholders to discuss governance are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
There are eight and strategy, and to understand any issues and concerns.
regular Board meetings a year and further meetings are held The Annual General Meeting provides an additional useful as needed.
opportunity to meet private shareholders and answer their David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
Information of interest to investors is also maintained In addition, a team of six experienced independent Non-Executive on the Companys website at www.
com investors Directors represent a strong source of advice and judgement.
Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and ongoing training needs for all Directors are kept under review.
Summary Audit Committee report In addition to the Executive Committee, the following are the The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial expert, main Committees of the Board: Audit Committee: Remuneration supports the Board in meeting its responsibilities in relation to Committee: Nomination Committee: and Corporate Responsibility the integrity of the Groups financial statements and associated Committee.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate announcements, the adequacy of internal control and risk Responsibility Committees consist wholly of Non-Executive management systems and the appointment and work of the Directors.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the internal and external auditors.
The external auditor and the Nomination Committee only.
The terms of reference of these Head of Global Internal Audit both have the opportunity to meet Committees were reviewed during 2010 to ensure that they privately with the Committee.
continue to reflect best practice, and are available on the During the year, the Committees deliberations included a wide Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate range of matters addressing all its main areas of responsibility.
governance committees, or from the Company Secretarys office The Committees main focus was to review the quarterly, interim on request.
and full-year financial results and to review the effectiveness Performance evaluations of the Board, of each main Committee of internal control, financial reporting and risk management and of individual Directors were undertaken for 2010.
These processes, through reports and presentations received from involved completion of comprehensive questionnaires and the internal audit, the external auditors and management.
Chairman having discussions with each Director individually.
Consideration was also given to tax risk, policies and initiatives, global technology strategy, treasury matters and the funding position of the Groups main pension plan.
40 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Facts and figures Summary remuneration report Introduction Remuneration elements The Summary Remuneration Report is extracted from Base salary and benefits information from the full Remuneration Report contained in Salary is reviewed annually, based on individual performance, the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010, a copy of competitive market data, comparator company analysis, internal which is available on request and can be viewed on the Companys relativities and salary levels in the wider employment market.
com investors under financial library.
The Benefits are provided in accordance with local market practice.
Only Remuneration Report will be put to the vote at the forthcoming base salary is pensionable.
The Executive Directors salaries are: Annual General Meeting.
2011 2010 Directors Market conditions Andrew Cosslett 850,780 826,000 The year started with significant uncertainty and volatility in the James Abrahamson 477,117 469,348 economic environment.
However, market conditions improved Kirk Kinsell 477,117 462,875 progressively throughout the year as consumer confidence Richard Solomons 540,000 523,000 strengthened.
Global revenue per available room RevPAR grew by 6.2% and room rates now show positive growth in all regions.
Annual Bonus Plan Reflecting IHGs results, bonus outcomes in 2010 were 175% of Awards under the ABP require the achievement of challenging base salary.
personal and corporate performance goals before target bonus of Robust links between performance and reward were maintained 115% of salary is payable.
Half of any bonus earned is compulsorily in 2010 incentive plan designs and a number of safeguards were deferred in the form of shares for three years.
No matching shares put in place, reflecting continuing uncertainty in the industry.
are awarded by the Company.
Maximum bonus opportunity was temporarily capped at 175% of base salary and the target for maximum bonus achievement was 50% temporarily increased to 120% for earnings before interest and tax Deferred 70% EBIT.
Under the 2010 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP cycle, Shares Annual EBIT the total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS Bonus for 2011 measures were restored to equal weighting.
Salaries were 50% 30% Cash increased by an average of 2.8%, following no increase in 2009.
Individual Following review, the Remuneration Committee has concluded Performance Structure that for the 2011 2013 LTIP cycle the EPS measure should be measures replaced with two equally weighted new measures net Rooms Long Term Incentive Plan growth and like-for-like RevPAR growth compared with major The LTIP allows Executive Directors and eligible management to competitors.
These measures underpin IHGs strategy and have receive share awards, subject to the achievement of performance high relevance for most employees.
The existing TSR measure conditions, measured over a three-year period.
The maximum bonus opportunity for 2011 will be annually and, other than in exceptional circumstances, will not increased to 200% of base salary and the EBIT target under exceed three times annual salary for Executive Directors.
the Annual Bonus Plan ABP will revert to 110% of budget.
The LTIP three-year cycle ending 31 December 2010 resulted The Committee believes that these targets are well aligned in 73.8% vesting for the Executive Directors.
with our goal of increasing shareholder value.
The performance conditions for the 2011 2013 LTIP cycle are: Remuneration policy IHGs TSR relative to the Dow Jones World Hotels index For Executive Directors and for senior executives, the following half of the potential maximum award : policy has been applied and will apply in future years.
cumulative annual net growth in rooms over the period Overall remuneration is intended to attract and retain high-quality one quarter of the potential maximum award : and executives, reward achievements aligned with business targets cumulative annual like-for-like RevPAR growth over the period and key strategic objectives, align executive and shareholder one quarter of the potential maximum award.
interests, support equitable treatment of teams, and facilitate global assignments.
50% IHGs remuneration structure places emphasis on performanceTSR related reward.
Individual elements are designed to provide the LTIP 100% appropriate balance between fixed remuneration and variable risk 2011 2013 Shares 25% Rooms reward, linked to both the performance of the Group and personal achievements.
Approximately two-thirds of variable reward is in the 25% RevPAR form of shares.
Performance Structure measures The normal policy for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members is that, using target or expected value calculations, For all award cycles, vesting between threshold and maximum their performance-related incentives will equate to approximately is on a straight-line basis.
The Remuneration Committee has the 70% of total annual remuneration excluding pensions and benefits.
discretion to reduce vesting outcomes based on the quality of the financial performance of the Company over the period.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary remuneration report 41 The following table summarises the individual elements of remuneration provided to Executive Directors and Executive Committee members: Element Purpose and link with strategy Base Salary cash Recognises market value of role, individual skill, performance and experience Annual Bonus half cash: half Drives and rewards performance of individuals and teams and aligns personal and corporate deferred shares up to 200% financial and non-financial objectives: aligns short and long-term rewards with returns to of salary shareholders Long Term Incentive Plan Drives and rewards delivery of sustained long-term performance aligned with the interests of shares up to 205% of salary shareholders Pension and benefits varied Provides competitive benefits, protection and savings opportunities Performance graph Throughout 2010, the Company was a member of the FTSE 100 index and, for remuneration purposes, used a TSR comparator group of the Dow Jones World Hotels index.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has determined that these are the most appropriate market indices against which to test the Companys performance.
The graph below shows the TSR performance of IHG from 31 December 2005 to 31 December 2010, assuming dividends are reinvested, compared with the TSR performance achieved by the FTSE 100 index and the Dow Jones World Hotels index.
Over the five-year period, IHG outperformed the FTSE 100 index by 39.6% and the Dow Jones World Hotels index by 18.5%.
Total Shareholder Return: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 and v Dow Jones World Hotels index 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC FTSE 100 Dow Jones World Hotels Source: Datastream Total Shareholder Return Index Total Shareholder Return Index Total Shareholder Return Index Share ownership Executive Directors are expected to hold twice their base salary in shares or three times in the case of the Chief Executive.
Executives are expected to hold all shares earned net of any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities until their shareholding requirement is achieved.
The Executive Directors complied with this requirement during 2010.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee which is approved by the Board, having taken account of the fees paid in other companies of a similar complexity.
Higher fees are payable to the Senior Independent Director who chairs the Audit Committee and to the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees, reflecting the additional responsibilities of these roles.
Non-Executive Directors fee levels are reviewed annually.
Fees have been increased with effect from 1 January 2011 as shown below.
These increases are broadly in line with anticipated executive management salary increases for 2011.
Fees at Fees at 1 Jan 2011 1 Jan 2010 Role pa pa Chairman 406,000 398,000 Senior Independent Director & Chairman of Audit Committee 103,000 99,750 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 86,500 84,000 Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 76,000 73,500 Other Non-Executive Directors 65,000 63,000 42 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Facts and figures Summary remuneration report continued Service contracts The Remuneration Committees policy is for Executive Directors to have rolling contracts with a notice period of 12 months.
All the current Executive Directors have such contracts in place.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
David Websters appointment as Non-Executive Chairman is subject to six months notice.
Directors emoluments The emoluments shown below represent salary, fees and cash bonuses excluding pensions and bonus awards paid in shares and tax assessable benefits and allowances, including company cars and healthcare cover.
No cash performance bonuses were payable to the Executive Directors in respect of the year to 31 December 2009.
1 Jan 2010 to 1 Jan 2009 to 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 000 000 Executive Directors Andrew Cosslett 1,571 827 1 James Abrahamson 380 1 Kirk Kinsell 436 Richard Solomons 996 531 Non-Executive Directors David Webster 398 390 2 Graham Allan 63 David Kappler 100 95 Ralph Kugler 84 80 3 Jennifer Laing 74 68 Jonathan Linen 63 60 Ying Yeh 63 60 4 Former Directors 1 1 Total 4,229 2,112 1 James Abrahamson and Kirk Kinsell were appointed as Directors on 1 August 2010.
The above figures reflect their emoluments as Directors from this date.
They are paid in US dollars.
The sterling figures above have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.65.
2 Graham Allan was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2010.
3 Jennifer Laing became Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 1 March 2009, for which a higher fee is paid.
4 Sir Ian Prosser retired as a Director on 31 December 2003.
However, he had ongoing healthcare benefit of 1,179 during the year.
Pensions Executive Directors participated in either the executive section of the registered defined benefit InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan the IC Plan and the InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme ICETUS UK-based Directors or the 401 k Retirement Plan 401 k and the Deferred Compensation Plan DCP US-based Directors.
The executive section of the IC Plan is a funded, registered, final salary, occupational pension scheme.
When benefits would otherwise exceed a members lifetime allowance, the balance is provided by the ICETUS.
The 401 k is a tax-qualified plan and the DCP is a non-tax qualified plan, both providing benefits on a defined contribution basis, with the member and the relevant company both making contributions.
Andrew Richard Cosslett Solomons UK Plans final salary Transfer value of accrued benefits at 1 January 2010 2,574,100 3,934,700 Increase in transfer value over the year 864,000 773,700 Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31 December 2010 3,438,100 4,708,400 Increase in accrued pension pa 23,600 10,400 Accrued pension at 31 December 2010 pa 161,500 239,200 Age at 31 December 2010 55 49 US Plans defined contribution The Company contributions made in respect of James Abrahamson and Kirk Kinsell for their periods of service as Directors from 1 August 2010 were 18,000 and 22,300 respectively.
Sterling values have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.65.
Both Messrs Abrahamson and Kinsell were age 55 at 31 December 2010.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary remuneration report 43 Annual Bonus Plan deferred share awards All Directors participated in the ABP during the year ended 31 December 2010.
No matching shares are provided on awards.
2 James Abrahamson received a special share award as part of his recruitment terms in 2009.
Full vesting of these shares is subject to his continued service until February 2012.
Long Term Incentive Plan awards In 2010 there were three cycles in operation and one cycle which vested.
The awards made to Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2010 in respect of the performance cycles ending on 31 December 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and the maximum pre-tax number of ordinary shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are set out in the table below.
For the cycle ending on 31 December 2010, the Companys TSR outperformed the Dow Jones World Hotels index by 8 percentage points and achieved 9.6% per annum growth in adjusted EPS.
Accordingly, 73.8% of the award will vest on 16 February 2011.
Maximum value based on share Maximum Maximum Market Maximum price of LTIP awards LTIP LTIP price per Value at LTIP awards 1243p at held at shares awarded shares vested share at vesting held at 31 Dec 2010 Directors 1 Jan 2010 during the year during the year vesting 31 Dec 2010 1 2 Andrew Cosslett 685,266 160,807 73,372 901.5p 661,449 686,567 8,534,027 1 2 James Abrahamson 386,189 79,008 37,943 901.5p 342,056 382,711 4,757,097 1 2 Kirk Kinsell 263,796 75,411 21,685 901.5p 195,490 292,064 3,630,356 1 2 Richard Solomons 436,446 101,818 46,970 901.5p 423,435 436,155 5,421,407 1 Total 1,771,697 417,044 1,797,497 22,342,887 1 This award is based on performance to 31 December 2012 where the performance measures relate to the Companys TSR relative to the Dow Jones World Hotels index and the growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS over the performance period.
James Abrahamson and Kirk Kinsell received their awards prior to appointment as Executive Directors on 1 August 2010.
2 This award was based on performance to 31 December 2009.
Performance was measured against both the Companys TSR relative to a group of eight other comparator companies and cumulative annual growth rate CAGR in adjusted EPS over the performance period.
The number of shares released was determined according to a where the Company finished in the TSR comparator group, with 50% of the award being released for first position and 10% of the award being released for median position: and b the cumulative annual growth in adjusted EPS, with 50% of the award being released for growth of 20% per annum or more and 10% of the award being released for growth of 10% per annum.
The Company finished in fourth position in the TSR group and achieved 15.2% per annum adjusted EPS growth.
Accordingly, 46% of the award vested on 17 February 2010.
Share options Between 2003 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan.
No executive share options have been granted since then.
Share options held by Directors who served during the year are summarised as follows: Share Exercised Executive Weighted options held during options held at average 3 Directors at 1 Jan 2010 the year 31 Dec 2010 option price 1 2 Kirk Kinsell 109,150 109,150 531.06p 1 2 Richard Solomons 330,870 330,870 532.36p 1 Executive share options granted in 2004 and 2005.
2 Executive share options granted in 2004 are exercisable up to April 2014.
Executive share options granted in 2005 are exercisable up to April 2015.
3 Weighted average option price of options held at 31 December 2010.
No Director exercised share options during the year: therefore there is no disclosable gain by Directors in aggregate for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 437,732.
44 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2010 Facts and figures Investor information Website and electronic communication Share dealing services As part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares.
For more and environmental impact of producing and distributing information on this service, call 0871 384 2132.
They also offer a printed documents in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview Dealing, which and Annual Review have been made available to the majority of provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling shares.
shareholders through the Companys website www.
com For telephone dealings call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and investors under financial library.
4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log on to www.
co. uk Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion ShareGift IHG is currently operating a promotion for discounted hotel stays subject to availability for registered shareholders, through a The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share dedicated, controlled access website.
For further details please donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, contact the Company Secretariat at the registered office address the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be details shown on page 45 or email companysecretariat@ihg.
com obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.
org or by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
Share price information Missing shareholders The latest share price is available in the financial press, on Ceefax and on the Financial Times Cityline Service, telephone Working with ProSearch an asset reunification company, we 09058 171 690 calls charged at 75p per minute from a BT landline.
continue to look for shareholders who have not kept their contact Further details of the share price may be found on the Companys details up to date.
We have funds waiting to be claimed and are website www.
com investors under share price.
committed to doing what we can to pay these to their rightful owners.
For further details please contact ProSearch on Changes to the base cost of IHG shares 01732 741 411 or email info@prosearchassets.
com Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since Shareholder security April 2003 up to December 2010, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, may be found on the Companys website www.
com investors Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have under shareholder centre tax information.
received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based Corporate Responsibility Report brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report for These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
More 2010 covering progress on a range of environmental, social and detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the community issues.
This is available on our corporate website and Financial Services Authority website www.
uk can be downloaded directly at www.
com responsibility Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses Registrar will be included in Company mailings.
For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification of American Depositary Receipts ADRs a shareholders change of address and for information on a range of shareholder services please contact the Companys Registrar, The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Equiniti details shown on page 45. in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and traded under the symbol IHG.
Each ADR represents one ordinary Dividend services share.
All enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed to JPMorgan Chase & Co, our The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for authorised depositary bank details shown on page 45. shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash dividends.
For further information about the DRIP, please contact The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268.
A DRIP application and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with information booklet are available on the Companys website the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
com investors under shareholder centre dividends.
found on the Companys website www.
com investors under shareholder centre ADR holders or by visiting the SECs website Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly www.
shtml into a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of Summary forward-looking statement shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains It may be possible for shareholders to have their dividends paid certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation direct to their bank account in a local currency.
Charges are Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
By their payable for this service.
Further information is available at nature, such statements involve uncertainty: as a consequence, www.
co. uk under shareholder centre overseas actual results and developments may differ materially from those payment service.
expressed in or implied by such statements.
A more detailed If you think that you have out of date dividend warrants or explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to forwardoutstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar looking statements is set out on page 121 of the Annual Report and for further information.
Financial Statements 2010, copies of which are available from the registered office of the Company details shown on page 45 or Individual Savings Accounts ISAs on the Companys website www.
com investors under Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares.
For further information please shareholder centre reports.
contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2244.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Investor information, Financial calendar and Contacts 45 Financial calendar 2010 Payment of interim dividend of 8.0p per share 12.8 cents per ADR 1 October Financial year end 31 December 2011 Preliminary announcement of annual results 15 February Final dividend of 22.0p per share 35.2 cents per ADR : Ex-dividend date 23 March Record date 25 March Announcement of first quarter results 10 May Annual General Meeting 27 May Final dividend of 22.0p per share 35.2 cents per ADR : Payment date 3 June Announcement of interim results 9 August Interim dividend: Payment date October Announcement of third quarter results 8 November Financial year end 31 December 2012 Preliminary announcement of annual results February Contacts Designed and produced Registered office ADR depositary Priority Club Rewards by Corporate Edge Broadwater Park, Denham JPMorgan Chase & Co If you wish to enquire about, Print management by Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR PO Box 64504 or to join Priority Club Rewards, HH Associates St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 IHGs loyalty programme for Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 USA frequent travellers, please Printed by Royle Print Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 visit www.
com or telephone: US callers toll free This Report is printed For general information 0871 226 1111 in Europe, 1 651 453 2128 on 9lives 80 Silk which is about the Groups business Middle East and Africa non-US callers made up of 60% FSC postplease contact the Corporate toll charges apply consumer recycled fibre, Email: Affairs department at the 1 888 211 9874 in US and 20% pre-consumer recycled jpmorgan.
For all other Canada toll free fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre www.
com enquiries please contact the from FSC managed forests.
1 800 272 9273 in Mexico Company Secretariat at the Stockbrokers Our printer is also FSC and toll free above address.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 1 801 975 3013 Spanish Goldman Sachs Registrar in Central and South America Equiniti, Aspect House toll charges apply Auditors Spencer Road, Lancing 1 801 975 3063 English Ernst & Young LLP West Sussex BN99 6DA in Central and South America Telephone 0 871 384 2132 toll charges apply Investment bankers UK callers 63 2 857 8788 from most Citi 44 0 121 415 7034 countries in Asia Pacific Bank of America Merrill Lynch non-UK callers toll charges apply Goldman Sachs www.
co. uk Telephone calls to this number are Solicitors charged at 10p per minute.
Standard For those with hearing difficulties network rates apply.
Calls from Freshfields Bruckhaus a text phone is available on mobiles will be higher.
Deringer LLP 0871 384 2255 for UK callers with compatible equipment.
Telephone calls to these numbers are currently charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
For further information visit www.
com investors InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 make a booking at www.
com InterContinental Shanghai Expo, China
