116 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Glossary Adjusted excluding the effect of exceptional items IFRS I nternational Financial Reporting and any relevant tax.
Average daily rate rooms revenue divided by the number of Interest rate swap an agreement to exchange fixed for room nights sold.
Also known as average floating interest rate streams or vice room rate.
Basic earnings per profit available for IHG equity holders Management contract a contract to operate a hotel on behalf ordinary share divided by the weighted average number of the hotel owner.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company Capital expenditure p urchases of property, plant and by multiplying its share price by the equipment, intangible assets, associate number of shares in issue.
investments and other financial assets.
Midscale hotels in the three four star category Cash-generating units the smallest identifiable groups of assets eg Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express.
that generate cash inflows that are largely Net debt borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, independent of the cash inflows from other including the exchange element of the fair assets, or groups of assets.
value of currency swaps hedging the Comparable RevPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that borrowings.
have traded in all months in both financial Occupancy rate rooms occupied by hotel guests, years being compared.
Principally expressed as a percentage of rooms excludes new hotels, hotels closed for that are available.
major refurbishment and hotels sold in either of the two years.
Pipeline hotels rooms that will enter the Groups system at a future date.
A new hotel Contingencies l iabilities that are contingent upon the only enters the pipeline once a contract occurrence of one or more uncertain has been signed and the appropriate fees future events.
In rare circumstances, a hotel will Continuing operations operations not classified as discontinued.
not open for reasons such as the financing being withdrawn.
Currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, each denominated in a different currency, Revenue per rooms revenue divided by the number of for an agreed period of time.
available room room nights that are available can be RevPAR mathematically derived from occupancy Derivatives a financial instrument used to reduce risk, rate multiplied by average daily rate.
the price of which is derived from an underlying asset, index or rate.
Room count number of rooms franchised, managed, owned or leased by IHG.
Discontinued operations hotels or operations sold or those classified as held for sale when the results Rooms revenue revenue generated from the sale of relate to a separate line of business, room nights.
geographical area of operations, or where Royalty revenues rooms revenue that a franchisee pays to there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose the brand owner for use of the brand name.
of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
Subsidiary undertaking a company over which the Group exercises control.
Exceptional items items which are disclosed separately because of their size or nature.
System size the number of hotels rooms franchised, managed, owned or leased by IHG.
Extended stay hotels designed for guests staying for periods of time longer than a few nights Technology income income received from hotels under and tending to have a higher proportion of franchise and management agreements suites than normal hotels eg Staybridge for the use of IHGs proprietary Suites, Candlewood Suites.
Franchisee operator who uses a brand under licence Total gross revenue total rooms revenue from franchised from the brand owner eg IHG.
hotels and total hotel revenue from managed, owned and leased hotels.
Franchisor brand owner eg IHG who licenses brands for use by operators.
Total Shareholder the theoretical growth in value of a Return TSR shareholding over a period, by reference Goodwill the difference between the consideration to the beginning and ending share price, given for a business and the total of the and assuming that gross dividends, fair values of the separable assets and including special dividends, are reinvested liabilities comprising that business.
to purchase additional units of the equity.
Hedging the reduction of risk, normally in relation UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted to foreign currency or interest rate Accounting Practice.
movements, by making offsetting commitments.
Working capital the sum of inventories, receivables and payables of a trading nature, excluding financing items such as corporate taxation.
