Financial statements 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies Any changes in the Groups ownership interest IFRIC 12 draws a distinction between two types subsequent to the date of obtaining control are of service concession arrangement.
In one, the a General information recognised directly in equity, with no operator receives a financial asset, i. e. an International Power plc the Company is a public adjustment to goodwill.
unconditional contractual right to receive cash or limited company incorporated and domiciled in the another financial asset from the government in United Kingdom.
The address of its registered Any changes to the cost of an acquisition, return for constructing or upgrading the public office is disclosed on page 197 of this Annual including contingent consideration, resulting sector asset.
In the other, the operator receives an Report.
The consolidated financial statements of from events after the date of acquisition are intangible asset, i. e. no more than a right to charge the Company for the year ended 31 December recognised in the income statement.
Previously, for use of the public sector asset that it constructs 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries such changes resulted in an adjustment to or upgrades.
A right to charge users is not an together referred to as the Group and the Groups goodwill.
unconditional right to receive cash because the interest in joint ventures and associates.
The The revised standards have been applied to the amounts are contingent on the extent to which the parent company financial statements present acquisition of development companies by IPA public uses the service.
IFRIC 12 allows for the information about the Company as a separate Wind Development, LLC, as outlined in note 30. possibility that both types of arrangement may entity and not about its Group.
The principal exist within a single contract: to the extent that the activities of the Group are described in note 2.
The following IFRS were available for early government has given an unconditional guarantee adoption but have not been applied by the Group of payment for the construction of the public sector b Statement of compliance in these financial statements: asset, the operator has a financial asset: to the European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC Amendment to IAS 32 Classification on Rights extent that the operator has to rely on the public 1606 2002 requires that the consolidated financial Issues using the service in order to obtain payment, the statements, for the year ended 31 December 2010, operator has an intangible asset.
be prepared in accordance with International IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted The Group has several service concession IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities by the EU.
These Group financial statements have arrangements in place across the Group, with Equity Instruments been prepared and approved by the Directors in principally in Asia, mainland Europe and the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Middle East, through contracts entered into by Minimum Funding Requirement its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Typically these arrangements are in the form company financial statements in accordance The impact resulting from the application of these of long-term power purchase agreements with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice standards and interpretations is currently being agreements to sell electrical capacity and GAAP.
The parent company financial statements assessed.
electrical output over an extended period with are presented on pages 181 to 189.
The following standard has been issued by the government controlled offtakers.
IASB, but has not been adopted by the European c Adoption of new and revised Standards As a consequence of the nature of the contractual Commission and published in the EU Official The following standards, amendments and arrangements in which the Group is participating, Journal for its application to become mandatory: interpretations to existing standards, issued by the all the Groups service concession arrangements International Accounting Standards Board, are IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for result in the recognition of service concession applicable to the Group for the first time in the annual accounting periods beginning on or after receivables because the Group has unconditional current year and have been adopted by the Group: 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach contractual rights to receive cash or other financial to determine whether a financial asset is assets from the governments in return for IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements measured at amortised cost or fair value.
This constructing or upgrading the public sector assets.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations, which approach is based on how an entity manages The Group has not recognised any service applies to acquisitions of controlling interests its financial instruments its business model concession intangible assets as a direct result of within the meaning of IAS 27 that take place and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the adoption of IFRIC 12. after 1 January 2010, and revised IAS 27 the financial assets.
The new standard also For the arrangements within the Group which Consolidated and Separate Financial requires a single impairment method to be are affected by the adoption of IFRIC 12, these Statements used, replacing the many different impairment were previously accounted for as contracts which methods in IAS 39.
Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items were, or contained, finance leases, following the The impact resulting from the application of this requirements of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Amendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled standard is currently being assessed.
Arrangement contains a Lease and IAS 17 Leases.
Share-based Payment Transactions In accordance with the requirements of IAS 8 Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets d Changes in accounting policies Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations In the preparation of the consolidated financial Estimates and Errors the change in accounting statements, the Group has adjusted for the effects Improvements to IFRS 2009 policy in relation to service concession of the adoption of International Financial Reporting arrangements, following a change required by Other than the impact of adopting IFRIC 12, which Interpretations Committee Interpretation 12 IFRS, has been made retrospectively and the is outlined in note 1d, the amendments and Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 12. comparatives have been restated accordingly.
interpretations set out above have no material IFRIC 12 was endorsed by the EU on 25 March impact on the Groups consolidated financial The impact of adoption of IFRIC 12 is to replace 2009 and is applicable for annual periods statements in the current year.
IFRS 3 and IAS 27 finance lease receivables and property, plant and beginning on or after 29 March 2009. apply prospectively to business combinations equipment, with service concession receivables.
effected by the Group after 1 January 2010.
Service concessions are arrangements whereby To the extent that taxable or deductible temporary Business combinations which took place before a government or other public sector entity grants differences arise on these adjustments, deferred 1 January 2010 do not need to be restated as contracts for the supply of public services such tax assets or liabilities have also been recognised.
a result of the adoption of these standards.
The as roads, airports, prisons and energy and water The carrying amounts of our investments in joint most significant changes to the Groups previous supply and distribution facilities to private sector ventures and associates in the statement of accounting policies for business combinations operators.
Control of the assets remains in public financial position have also been changed to are as follows: hands but the private sector operator is recognise the cumulative impact on earnings responsible for construction activities, as well as arising from the adoption of IFRIC 12 in those Acquisition related costs which previously for operating and maintaining the public sector entities.
would have been included in the cost of a infrastructure.
IFRIC 12 addresses how service business combination are expensed in the concession operators should apply existing IFRS income statement as they are incurred.
to account for the obligations they undertake and Any pre-existing equity interest in the entity rights they receive in service concession acquired is remeasured to fair value at the date arrangements.
of obtaining control, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
120 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued The Groups forecasts and projections, taking Some of these economic hedges achieve own use into account reasonably possible changes in treatment under IAS 39 and are accounted for on As a consequence of the restatement, at trading performance, show that the Group has an accruals basis.
Some are accounted for as cash 31 December 2009 non-current finance lease sufficient financial resources, together with assets flow hedges under IAS 39 with fair value gains and receivables decreased by 1,155 million, property, that are expected to generate free cash flow to losses recorded in other comprehensive income plant and equipment decreased by 82 million, the Group due to the relatively inelastic demand and accumulated in the hedging reserve.
Where investments in joint ventures and associates for the Groups primary product, electricity.
As a derivative contracts do not achieve own use decreased by 70 million, current finance consequence, the Directors have a reasonable treatment and the Group could not, or has not lease receivables decreased by 47 million, expectation that the Company and the Group sought to, apply cash flow hedge accounting, and deferred tax liabilities decreased by 3 million.
are well placed to manage their business risks IAS 39 requires the derivative contract to be At 31 December 2009 non-current service and to continue in operational existence for measured at fair value marked to market with fair concession receivables of 1,266 million and the foreseeable future, despite the continuing value gains and losses recognised in the income current service concession receivables of uncertain global economic outlook.
The Group separately presents these 35 million were recognised.
the Directors continue to adopt the going mark to market movements on economic hedges, At 1 January 2009 non-current finance lease concern basis in preparing the consolidated in the middle column, to assist the readers receivables decreased by 1,305 million, property, financial statements.
understanding of underlying business plant and equipment decreased by 21 million, performance and to provide a more meaningful investments in joint ventures and associates f Basis of preparation presentation.
decreased by 56 million, current finance lease As set out in note 1e, the consolidated financial For economic hedges, where fair value gains and receivables decreased by 48 million, and deferred statements have been prepared on the going losses are recorded in the income statement, in tax liabilities decreased by 5 million.
They use the historical cost the period in which the economically hedged 2009 non-current service concession receivables convention, modified for certain items carried at transaction settles, the settlement amount of the of 1,340 million and current service concession fair value or measured in accordance with the derivative, being the cumulative fair value gains receivables of 42 million were recognised.
applicable IFRS, as stated in these accounting and losses recognised in the current and prior policies.
As a result of the Groups adoption of IFRIC 12, the periods, is presented in the left hand column so consolidated income statement in the comparative In order to allow a better understanding of the that the transaction is measured at its contracted period, i. e. for the year ended 31 December 2009, financial information presented, and specifically price i. e. the spot price less the fair value gain or has been restated to increase Group revenue by the Groups underlying business performance, the loss on the derivative contract at that date.
17 million, increase cost of sales by 7 million, Group presents its income statement in three As the cumulative mark to market movements decrease share of results of joint ventures and columns such that it identifies i results excluding have already been recognised in the middle associates by 19 million, and to increase tax exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to column in the current and prior periods, an expense by 2 million.
market movements, ii the effect of exceptional equal but opposite amount is presented in the items and specific IAS 39 mark to market The impact on earnings per share for the prior year middle column so that cumulatively the amount movements and iii results for the year.
For the is outlined in note 10. recognised in the middle column in respect purposes of clarity, in the explanation of the basis of such economic hedges is zero.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows for the of preparation applied in the consolidated financial year ended 31 December 2009 the movement in statements, these columns are described as the By presenting fair value gains and losses in this finance lease receivables decreased by 43 million left hand column, the middle column and the manner, the left hand column is not affected by and the adjustment for depreciation of property, right hand column respectively.
mark to market movements and therefore reflects plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible the underlying business performance at Those items that the Group separately presents as assets decreased by 4 million.
exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by The amortisation of derivatives, which are acquired e Going concern basis virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a with a fair value other than zero, is always recorded The Groups business activities, together with proper understanding of the financial information.
This is achieved by the factors likely to affect its future development, The Group discloses exceptional items in the presenting an equal but opposite amount in the performance and position are set out on pages 10 middle column.
middle column, such that specific IAS 39 mark to 43 of the Business and financial review of the to market movements presented in the middle Annual Report.
The financial position of the Group, The Group enters into derivative contracts to column are shown net of the amortisation during its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing economically hedge certain of its physical and the period.
facilities are also described in the Business and financial exposures.
In relation to commodities financial review on pages 50 to 57 of the Annual trading, the Group considers economic hedges to Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges Report.
In addition, the Groups Annual Report and be those which are asset backed, i. e. where the under IAS 39 can arise from business consolidated financial statements include the Group is either forward selling electricity from its combinations, where the fair value of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for own generation capacity or forward buying fuel for derivatives at acquisition is not equal to zero, financial risk management.
In respect of interest or as a result of the difference between the rate swaps and other treasury related derivatives, contractual profile of the economic hedge and As described on page 52 of the Annual Report, the Group considers economic hedges to be those the profile of transactions defined as the hedged during the year ended 31 December 2010 the which hedge existing assets, liabilities and firm item.
IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness in qualifying Group met its funding requirements through a commitments.
cash flow hedges to be recorded in the income combination of non-recourse project finance debt statement, and therefore the Group records this secured on project companies assets together ineffectiveness in the middle column when it with convertible debt, a high yield bond, and a relates to an economic hedge.
corporate revolver facility at International Power plc the Company.
Following the Combination with GDF SUEZ Energy International on 3 February 2011 the Combination refer to note 39, the enlarged International Power benefits from a significant financial package provided by GDF SUEZ S. A. under a financing agreement.
This package comprises loans and facilities in excess of 3.1 billion.
Of these facilities 2.1 billion is initially in place to 31 December 2013 and has a one year rolling renewal, with fifteen months notice.
Approximately 955 million is available until August 2011.
The Group does not have any material refinancing falling due until June 2012, when the Hazelwood Power Partnership and Loy Yang B facilities are due for repayment.
Financial statements 121 Mark to market movements of the fair value of The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of Other power plants sell their output under power embedded derivatives in convertible bonds, which during the year are included in the consolidated purchase agreements PPAs and other long-term relate to conversion features where the functional income statement from when control commences arrangements.
Under such arrangements it is currency of the parent company and other factors or up to when control ceases, as appropriate.
usual for the Group to receive payment for the preclude the conversion feature being treated as provision of electrical capacity whether or not the Where necessary, adjustments are made to the equity in the consolidated financial statements, offtaker requests the electrical output capacity financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the are treated as specific IAS 39 mark to market payments and for the variable costs of production accounting policies used into line with those used movements and as such are presented in the energy payments.
In such situations, revenue is by the Group.
The Directors consider the fair recognised in respect of capacity payments as: value gains and losses of these embedded All intra-group transactions, balances, income and i finance income in accordance with note 1t derivatives should be appropriately disclosed expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
where the PPA is accounted for as a service within specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, concession arrangement and the Group has in the middle column, so as to separately identify a h Revenue recognition an unconditional right to receive cash or non-cash movement which, if the conversion Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods another financial asset as set out in note 1t : option is exercised, will ultimately be extinguished or services provided in the normal course of by the issue of equity.
business excluding amounts collected on behalf ii finance income in accordance with note 1u of third parties such as sales taxes, goods and where the PPA is considered to be or to Mark to market movements relating to proprietary services taxes and value added taxes.
Revenue contain a finance lease: trading activities, the revaluation of assets held for is recognised when it is probable that future trading and amortisation of derivatives which are iii operating lease minimum lease payments, on economic benefits will flow to the entity and acquired with a fair value other than zero comprise a straight-line basis in accordance with note these benefits can be measured reliably.
part of the Groups underlying business 1u where the PPA is considered to be or to performance and are appropriately, in the Certain power plants sell their output in merchant contain an operating lease: or judgement of the Directors, included within markets, where electricity is sold through existing iv service income in accordance with the the left hand column.
power exchanges, pool arrangements or through contractual terms, to the extent that the bilateral contracts with third parties.
In these The right hand column presents the results for capacity has been made available to the markets, revenue from energy sales is either the period, showing all gains and losses recorded contracted offtaker during the period.
Where recorded at the spot price obtained through pool in the consolidated income statement.
the PPA extends over more than one or spot mechanisms when the electrical output is accounting period, service income is To the extent that exceptional items are separately delivered, or as set out below, when electricity is recognised in each accounting period at the identified in the income statement, they are also delivered in accordance with the terms of any fair value of the Groups performance under separately identified in the statement of cash flows related hedging or forward contracts.
the contract in each period.
under the respective heading to which they relate.
i Because power is a non-financial item, Under service concession and finance lease forward contracts entered into and which g Basis of consolidation arrangements, those payments which are neither continue to be held for the purpose of delivery The consolidated financial statements incorporate recognised as finance income nor capital and sale of power generated by our own the financial statements of the Company and repayment are accounted for as service income power plants known as own use contracts entities controlled by the Company its outlined in iv above.
Energy payments under can be accounted for under accruals subsidiaries up to 31 December each year.
PPAs are recognised in revenue in all cases as the accounting, i. e. revenue for energy sales Control is achieved where the Company has contracted output is delivered.
is recognised as output is delivered in the power to govern the financial and operating accordance with the forward contract.
Revenue from construction contracts, including policies of an investee entity so as to obtain revenue recognised from construction or upgrade benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, ii All other forward contracts, which are services under service concession arrangements, the potential voting rights that are currently considered to be derivatives and do not qualify is determined using the percentage of completion exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
for own use, are recognised at fair value with method when the outcome of a construction changes in fair value recorded in the income On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent contract can be estimated reliably.
Where the Group applies cash flow liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair loss on a construction contract shall be recognised hedge accounting changes in fair values are values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the as an expense immediately.
recognised in other comprehensive income cost of acquisition over the fair values of the and accumulated in a hedging reserve within Liquidated damages LDs, in respect of late identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as equity and only reclassified to earnings when commissioning, are included in other operating goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition the hedged transaction affects earnings.
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets In addition, to the extent that there is acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to Proprietary trading income is recognised on ineffectiveness in the cash flow hedge the income statement in the period of acquisition.
the basis of completed contracts and the mark accounting of forward contracts, changes in to market value of outstanding contracts at the Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are fair values of the forward contracts are taken period end.
identified separately from the Groups equity to the income statement in the period.
The interests of the non-controlling Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by Revenue is recognised on the basis of power shareholders may be initially measured either reference to the principal outstanding and at the delivered during the period.
Power purchases at fair value or at the non-controlling interests effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate entered into to offset asset backed power sales proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable that exactly discounts estimated future cash are presented net within revenue.
The choice of measurement basis is receipts through the expected life of the financial made on an  basis.
asset to that assets net carrying amount on initial Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount recognition.
of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the noncontrolling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
122 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued j Goodwill Contracts and rights Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the Contracts and rights is the term we use to i Foreign currencies excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups describe intangible assets, acquired in business The Group financial statements are presented in interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, combinations separately from goodwill, arising sterling, which is also the functional currency of the liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, from identifiable contractual or other legal rights Company.
The functional currencies of Group joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition.
where their fair values can be measured reliably.
entities are principally determined by the primary These include beneficial in the money commodity economic environment in which the respective Goodwill arising on acquisition of joint ventures contracts, which qualify as own use contracts entity operates.
Transactions entered into by and associates is included in the carrying amount in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
Group entities are translated into the functional of the investment.
These contracts and rights are classified as currencies of those entities at the exchange rate Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed intangible assets and carried at cost less ruling at the date of transaction.
Foreign exchange for impairment annually and when there are accumulated amortisation and impairment losses gains and losses resulting from the settlement of indications of impairment.
Any impairment is refer to accounting policy note 1q where cost such transactions and from the translation at the recognised immediately in the income statement represents fair value at the acquisition date.
The exchange rate ruling at the end of reporting period and is not subsequently reversed.
intangible asset is then amortised on a systematic of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in basis in accordance with the pattern in which the foreign currencies are recognised in the income On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or future economic benefit of the contract is expected statement.
associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is to be consumed by the entity.
Intangible assets included in the determination of the profit or loss Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in with indefinite useful lives are not amortised.
terms of historical cost are translated at the rate of intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is exchange at the date of the transaction.
Exchange tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable k Other intangible assets differences on non-monetary items are recognised amount with its carrying amount annually, and Emission certificates in line with whether the gain or loss on the whenever there is an indication that the intangible An intangible asset is recognised on receipt of non-monetary item itself is recognised in the asset may be impaired.
allocated emission certificates and recorded at the income statement or in equity.
The fair value of the grant is l Property, plant and equipment In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign also recognised on receipt and deducted from the Property, plant and equipment are stated at exchange risks, the Group enters into forward value of the intangible asset.
As a result no net original cost less accumulated depreciation and contracts and options refer to note 1s for details asset or liability is shown in the statement of any provision for impairment in value.
In the case of the Groups accounting policies in respect of financial position at initial recognition.
of assets constructed by the Group, related works, such derivative financial instruments.
Emission certificates are recognised at cost when commissioning and borrowing costs as defined For the purpose of presenting consolidated purchased.
As emission certificates are utilised under IAS 23 Borrowing Costs refer to note 1z financial statements, income and expense items they are charged to the income statement within are included in cost.
Assets in the course of are translated at the average exchange rates for cost of sales.
To the extent that these certificates construction are included in property, plant and the period.
The net assets of the Groups overseas were received by way of grant there is nil charge equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are to the income statement for their utilisation.
At the at the end of the reporting period.
Costs relating translated at exchange rates prevailing at the end end of the reporting period the net carrying to major inspections and overhauls are recognised of the reporting period.
Goodwill and fair value amount of emission certificates held is compared in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign with the fair value to assess for impairment.
and equipment as a replacement if it is probable entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the that future economic benefits associated with the Forward contracts for sales and purchases of foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
item will flow to the entity: and the cost of the item emission certificates are measured at fair value.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in can be measured reliably.
other comprehensive income and accumulated in A provision is made for the estimated shortfall Depreciation is calculated on a component part the Groups translation reserve, which is a between emission certificates held and the basis so as to write-down the cost of property, component of equity.
Such translation differences anticipated requirement and is charged to the plant and equipment to its residual value are recognised as income or as expenses in the income statement on a pro-rata basis according to systematically over its estimated useful life.
income statement in the period of disposal of the current and expected future emissions throughout Estimated useful lives, residual values and net investment in foreign operations.
the accounting period based on the market value depreciation methods are reviewed annually, of those certificates.
In respect of foreign operations, any differences taking into account commercial and technological that have arisen before 1 January 2004, the date obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, of transition to IFRS, are presented as part of provision being made where the carrying value retained earnings.
Financial statements 123 The depreciation charge is based on the following The results, assets and liabilities of jointly Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less estimates of useful lives: controlled entities joint ventures and associates costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in are incorporated in these financial statements use, the estimated future cash flows are Years using the equity method of accounting except discounted to their present value using a pre-tax when classified as held for sale.
The results are discount rate that reflects current market Civil works 25-80 presented after interest, tax and non-controlling assessments of the time value of money and the Power stations and wind farms 20-60 interests.
Investments in joint ventures and risks specific to the asset for which the estimates Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10 associates are carried in the statement of financial of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Computer equipment and software 3-5 position at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT If the recoverable amount of an asset or cashchanges in the Groups share of the net assets of hot gas path parts, on average 2-4 generating unit is estimated to be less than its the joint venture or associate, less any impairment Leasehold improvements Life of lease carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the or cash-generating unit is reduced to its joint ventures and associates in excess of the Freehold land is not depreciated.
An impairment loss is Groups interest in those joint ventures and recognised as an expense immediately.
associates are not recognised unless the Group m Government grants has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those At the end of each reporting period, an Contributions received towards the cost of losses.
assessment is made to determine whether there is property, plant and equipment are recognised at any indication that an impairment loss recognised fair value.
The grant is deducted from the cost of Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the in prior periods may no longer exist or has the related property, plant and equipment to derive Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable decreased.
Where such an indication exists, an the carrying amount of the asset.
The grant is assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the recognised as income over the life of a depreciable joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition assets carrying value does not exceed the asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
is recognised as goodwill within the carrying carrying amount that would have been determined, amount.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition net of depreciation or amortisation, if no n Project development costs below the Groups share of the fair values of the impairment loss had been recognised.
Project development costs are principally incurred identifiable net assets of the joint venture or in identifying and developing investment associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount r Non-current assets held for sale opportunities and typically include feasibility on acquisition is credited to the income statement Non-current assets classified as held for sale are studies, pre-bid costs, legal, professional and in the period of acquisition.
measured at the lower of the assets previous other related advisory costs.
These costs Where a Group company transacts with a joint carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
including appropriate direct internal costs are venture or associate of the Group, profits and No depreciation is charged on assets classified recognised as expenses as incurred, except that losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups as held for sale.
directly attributable costs are capitalised when interest in the relevant joint venture or associate.
it is virtually certain that the project will proceed Non-current assets are classified as held for sale Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of to completion and income will be realised.
Such if their carrying amount will be recovered through the asset transferred in which case appropriate capitalised costs are amortised over the life of the a sale transaction rather than through continuing provision is made for impairment.
related property, plant and equipment or contract.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is p Other investments o Investments in joint ventures and associates available for immediate sale in its present Other investments consist of available-for-sale A joint venture is an entity over whose activities the condition.
Management must be committed to investments in debt and equity instruments which Group has joint control, established by contractual the sale, which should be expected to qualify for are measured at market prices where available.
recognition as a completed sale within one year Where quoted market prices in an active market from the date of classification.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in are not available, and where fair value cannot be a position to exercise significant influence, but not reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments s Derivative financial instruments control or joint control, through participation in the are measured at cost less impairment.
The Groups operating activities expose it to price financial and operating policy decisions of the risks associated with selling its generation output.
Significant influence is the power to q Impairment of assets excluding goodwill The Group is also exposed to price risks participate in the financial and operating policy At the end of each reporting period, the Group associated with the purchase of its fuel decisions of the investee but is not control or joint reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant requirements and to financial risks of changes in control over these policies.
and equipment, other intangible assets and those foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
other investments measured at cost, to determine The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, whether there is any indication that those assets including energy-based futures and forward have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such contracts, swaps and options to hedge its risk indication exists, the recoverable amount of to changes in power prices, fuel costs, foreign the asset is estimated in order to determine exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
financial instruments are principally used for hedging purposes although some are used for proprietary trading purposes within defined risk limits.
124 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued Fair value hedges For a concession arrangement to fall within the For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes scope of IFRIC 12, usage of the infrastructure must The use of financial derivatives is governed by in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an be controlled by the concession grantor.
This the Groups risk management policies approved unrecognised firm commitment, the hedged item is requirement is met when: by the Board of Directors, which provide written adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the principles on the use of financial derivatives The grantor controls or regulates what services risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in consistent with the Groups risk management the operator must provide with the net income.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the strategy.
infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, derivative, or for non-derivatives, the foreign and at what price.
Derivative financial instruments are initially currency component of its carrying amount, are recognised at fair value at the date the derivative recognised in net income.
The grantor controls through ownership, contract is entered into and are subsequently beneficial entitlement or otherwise any Hedge of a net investment in a foreign remeasured to their fair value at the end of each significant residual interest in the infrastructure operation reporting period.
The gain or loss on subsequent at the end of the term of the arrangement.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations fair value measurement is recognised in the are accounted for on a similar basis to cash flow Under IFRIC 12, the operators rights over income statement unless the derivative qualifies hedges.
Effective gains or losses on the hedging infrastructure operated under concession for hedge accounting when recognition of any instrument are recognised in other comprehensive arrangements should be accounted for based on resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of income and accumulated in the translation reserve, the party responsible for payment.
Accordingly: the item being hedged.
Subsequent to initial with ineffective gains or losses recognised in recognition, the fair values of financial instruments The intangible asset model is applied when finance costs in the income statement.
Cumulative measured at fair value that are quoted in an active the concession operator has the right to charge gains or losses in equity are taken to the income market are based on bid prices for assets held and for use of the public sector asset.
statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
offer prices for liabilities held.
If the market for a The financial asset model is applied when the financial instrument is not active, its fair value is Embedded derivatives concession operator has an unconditional right established by using valuation techniques.
These Derivatives embedded in other financial to receive cash or another financial asset, either valuation techniques include comparison with instruments or other non-financial host contracts directly from the grantor or indirectly by means similar instruments where market observable are treated as separate derivatives when their risks of a guarantee provided by the grantor for prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option and characteristics are not closely related to those amounts receivable from users of the public pricing models and other valuation techniques of the host contracts and the host contracts are sector asset for example, via a contractually commonly used by market participants.
not carried at fair value.
guaranteed internal rate of return, or in other All regular way purchases and sales of financial Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated words, when the grantor is primarily responsible assets are recognised on the trade date, being the derivatives are reported in the income statement.
date that the Group commits to purchase or sell Construction and upgrade services are recognised the assets.
Regular way transactions require t Service concession arrangements as follows: delivery of assets within the time frame generally As outlined in note 1d, the Group has adopted established by regulation or convention in the IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Under the intangible asset model, the fair market place.
which deals with the accounting treatment to be value of construction and other work on the applied by the concession operator in respect of infrastructure represents the cost of the Cash flow hedges certain concession arrangements.
intangible asset and should be recognised Changes in the fair value of derivative financial when the infrastructure is built provided that instruments that are designated and are effective This interpretation sets out the common features of this work is expected to generate future as hedges of future cash flows are recognised concession arrangements: economic benefits.
Where no such economic directly in equity and the ineffective portion is Concession arrangements involve the provision benefits are expected, the present value of recognised immediately in the income statement.
of a public service and the management of commitments in respect of construction and Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to associated infrastructure.
other work on the infrastructure is recognised the income statement in the period in which the from the outset, with a corresponding The party that grants the service arrangement hedged item also affects the income statement.
the grantor is a public sector entity, including a However, if the hedged item results in the governmental body, or a private sector entity to Under the financial asset model, the amount recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the which the responsibility for the service has been receivable from the grantor is recognised at the amounts accumulated in equity on the hedging devolved.
time the infrastructure is built, at the fair value instrument are transferred from equity and of the construction and other work carried out.
included in the initial measurement of the cost The operator is responsible for at least some of of the asset or liability.
the management of the infrastructure and does When the grantor has a payment obligation not merely act as an agent on behalf of the for only part of the investment, the cost is Hedge accounting is discontinued when the grantor.
recognised in financial assets for the amount hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, guaranteed by the grantor, with the balance exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge The contract sets the initial prices to be levied included in intangible assets mixed model.
At that time, for forecast transactions, by the operator and regulates price revisions any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging over the concession period.
Renewal costs consist of obligations under instrument recognised in equity is retained in concession arrangements with potentially different The operator is obliged to hand over the equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a terms and conditions for example, an obligation to infrastructure to the grantor in a specified hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, restore the site.
condition at the end of the period of the the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity arrangement, for little or no incremental Renewal costs are recognised as either i is transferred to the income statement.
consideration, irrespective of which party intangible or financial assets depending on the It should be noted that the Group revoked the initially financed it.
applicable model when the costs are expected designation of its cash flow hedges relating to to generate future economic benefits i. e. they sales of power and purchases of fuel on 1 January bring about an improvement : or ii expenses, 2008.
The Group currently does not apply cash where no such benefits are expected to be flow hedge accounting to such arrangements.
generated i. e. the infrastructure is restored to its original condition.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Financial statements 125 Under the financial asset model, as discussed in Operating leases Group as lessee IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be note 1h, capacity payments are apportioned Rentals payable under operating leases are settled by the entity receiving or delivering a fixed between finance income, capital repayments charged to the income statement on a straight-line number of its own equity instruments in exchange relating to the provision of the plant and service basis over the term of the relevant lease.
for a fixed amount of cash or another financial income.
The finance income is recognised as asset is an equity instrument.
It also states that a Benefits received and receivable as an incentive revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant contract that will be settled by the entity delivering to enter into an operating lease are also spread to give a constant periodic rate of return on the or receiving a fixed number of its own equity on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
financial asset in each period.
Service income is instruments in exchange for a variable amount of recognised in each accounting period at the fair Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet cash or another financial asset is a financial asset value of the Groups performance under the under terms such that the rental income is less or financial liability.
For the purposes of the contract.
than the head-lease rental cost, provision is made consolidated financial statements, when making for the best estimate of unavoidable lease the assessment of whether a convertible bond, u Leasing payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated when exercised, gives rise to the exchange of a A lease is defined as an agreement whereby future shortfall of sub-lease income compared with fixed or variable amount of cash, or other financial the lessor conveys to the lessee, in return for the head-lease expense.
asset, the functional currency of the parent a payment or a series of payments, the right to company relative to the currency denomination use a specific asset for an agreed period of time.
v Inventories of the bonds is considered in addition to other The definition can include arrangements such Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and features within the bond.
as long-term PPAs, where power plants are consumables are valued at the lower of cost and For convertible bonds issued by the Group where specifically designated to fulfil the requirements net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct there is a difference between the currency of the of an agreement.
materials and, where applicable, direct labour bond and the functional currency of the parent costs and those overheads that have been Finance leases Group as lessor company, the embedded option to convert the incurred in bringing the inventories to their present Where the Group determines a long-term PPA to bonds is recorded as a derivative liability because location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the be or to contain a lease, and where the offtaker has it is not a contract to exchange a fixed number of weighted average method.
the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the shares for a fixed amount of bonds.
The power plant through its contractual arrangements embedded derivative liability component is w Cash and cash equivalents with the Group, the arrangement is considered a separately identified and measured at fair value Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank finance lease.
As discussed in note 1h, capacity through profit or loss.
balances and cash held by the Group and payments are apportioned between minimum short-term deposits with an original maturity of For convertible bonds issued by the Group where lease payments comprising capital repayments three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are the currency of the bond and the functional relating to the provision of the plant and finance repayable on demand and form part of the Groups currency of the parent company are the same, income and service income.
The finance income cash management are included as a component of i. e. where on conversion of the bonds a fixed is recognised as revenue, using a rate of return cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the number of shares is exchanged for a fixed amount specific to the plant to give a constant periodic rate statement of cash flows.
of bonds, the value of the embedded option to of return on the net investment in each period.
convert the bonds is recorded within equity on Service income is recognised in each accounting x Loans and bonds initial recognition.
period at the fair value of the Groups performance Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised under the contract.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability initially at fair value less attributable transaction and embedded option components of the Arrangements that do not convey the right to costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestconvertible bonds recorded as equity or as a use a specific asset through the term of the bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost derivative liability based on their relative carrying agreement result in the continued recognition with any difference between cost and redemption amounts at the date of issue.
of property, plant and equipment, rather than a value being recognised in the income statement finance lease receivable, which is depreciated over the period of the borrowings on an effective The interest expense on the liability component over its economic life.
is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the The amounts due from lessees under finance y Convertible bonds liability component of the instrument.
This interest leases are recorded in the statement of financial Convertible bonds are regarded as compound expense, recognised in the income statement, is position as financial assets, classified as finance instruments, consisting of a liability component calculated using the effective interest method, i. e. lease receivables, at the amount of the net and either an equity component or an embedded the difference between the interest expense on the investment in the lease after making provision derivative component.
liability component and the interest paid is added for bad and doubtful debts.
to the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability Operating leases Group as lessor component is estimated using the prevailing An operating lease is any lease other than a finance z Borrowing costs market interest rate for similar non-convertible lease.
Thus where the Group determines a Borrowing costs directly attributable to the debt.
The difference between the proceeds of long-term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and acquisition, construction or production of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value where the Group retains the principal risks and qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily assigned to the liability component represents rewards of ownership of the power plant, the take a substantial period of time to be prepared for the value of either an equity component or an arrangement is considered an operating lease.
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of embedded derivative component attributable those assets, until such time as the assets are For operating leases, the power plant is capitalised to the embedded option to convert the bonds substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
as property, plant and equipment and depreciated into equity of the Group.
As referred to in note 1s, to the extent that variable over its economic life.
rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying Rental income from operating leases is recognised asset and are hedged in an effective cash flow on a straight-line basis over the term of the hedge of interest rate risk, the hedging gain or loss arrangement.
relating to the effective portion of the derivative is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised as part of the initial carrying amount of the asset.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
126 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Accounting policies continued assets and liabilities are not recognised if the The present value of the defined benefit obligation temporary difference arises from goodwill, not is determined by discounting the estimated future aa Provisions deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial cash outflows using interest rates of high quality Provisions are recognised when the Group has a recognition other than in a business combination corporate bonds that are denominated in the present obligation as a result of a past event, it is of other assets and liabilities in a transaction currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that probable that the Group will be required to settle that affects neither the taxable profit nor the have terms to maturity approximating to the terms that obligation and the amount can be reliably accounting profit.
of the related pension liability.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience required to settle the obligation at the end of the temporary differences arising on investments in adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions reporting period, and are discounted to present subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Where are recognised in the statement of comprehensive value where the effect is material.
the Group is able to control the reversal of the income in the period in which they arise.
Past temporary difference and it is probable that the service costs are recognised immediately in Provisions are made for onerous contracts.
temporary difference will not reverse in the income to the extent that benefits have vested, Provisions for onerous contracts are also made on foreseeable future, no deferred tax liability is otherwise costs are amortised on a straight-line acquisition as part of the fair valuing of assets and recognised.
Deferred tax assets arising from basis over the vesting period.
liabilities in a business combination where such deductible temporary differences associated with contracts relate to non-financial items, which such investments are only recognised to the extent af Share-based payments qualify for own use treatment in accordance with that it is probable that there will be sufficient The Group issues equity-settled share-based the requirements of IAS 39.
Provisions are initially taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled recognised at fair value and at the end of of the temporary differences and they are share-based payments are measured at fair value subsequent reporting periods at the amount expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.
conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is determined at the date of grant of the equityab Decommissioning costs reviewed at the end of the reporting period and settled share-based payments is expensed on a Provision is made for reliably estimated reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable straight-line basis over the vesting period, based decommissioning costs at the end of the useful that sufficient taxable profits will be available to on the Groups estimate of the shares that will economic life of the Groups power stations and allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
eventually vest and where applicable, adjusted for generating assets, if and when a legal or Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions constructive obligation arises, on a discounted expected to apply in the period in which the liability including service conditions.
The amount provided represents the is settled or the asset is realised.
Current and present value of the expected costs.
An amount For the Groups Executive Share Option Plans the deferred tax is charged or credited in the income equivalent to the initial provision is capitalised fair values are measured using the Black-Scholes statement, except when it relates to items charged within property, plant and equipment and is pricing model.
The expected lives used in these or credited directly to the statement of depreciated over the useful lives of the related models have been adjusted, based on comprehensive income or equity, in which case assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included managements best estimate, for the effects of the deferred tax is also dealt with in the statement within finance costs.
non-transferability, any exercise restrictions and of comprehensive income or equity.
Where there is a subsequent change in estimate Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset to of decommissioning costs, the present value of the For conditional awards, made under the 2002 the extent that there is a legally enforceable right to change is recognised in the cost of property, plant Performance Share Plan, without a market-related offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities, and equipment.
performance condition, the fair values have been they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation calculated as the face value of the award, authority and the Group intends to settle its current ac Environmental liabilities discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise Provision for environmental liabilities is made during the vesting period.
an asset and settle a liability simultaneously.
when expenditure on remedial work is probable, Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 the Group is obliged, either legally or constructively Tax expense is recognised in each interim period Performance Share Plan, contain a market-related through its environmental policies, to undertake based on the best estimate of the weighted performance condition, the fair values are such work and the amount can be reliably average annual tax rate expected for the full measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method.
Where the amount is expected to financial year.
be incurred over the long-term, the amount recognised is the present value of the estimated ae Pension schemes future expenditure and the unwinding of the Payments to defined contribution pension plans discount is included within finance costs.
are charged as an expense in the income statement in the periods during which services are ad Tax rendered by employees.
Payments made to state The tax expense represents the sum of the managed defined benefit pension plans are dealt expected tax payable on taxable income for the with as payments to defined contribution plans year, including adjustments in respect of prior where the Groups obligations under the plans are periods and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution from accounting profit, as reported in the income pension plan.
statement or statement of comprehensive income, The liability recognised in the statement of financial because it excludes items of income or expense position in respect of defined benefit pension that are taxable or deductible in other years and plans is the present value of the defined benefit it further excludes items that are never taxable obligations at the end of the reporting period less or deductible.
The Groups liability for current the fair value of plan assets, together with tax is calculated using tax rates that have been adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
enacted or substantively enacted by the end The defined benefit obligation is calculated using of the reporting period.
the projected unit credit method, with actuarial Deferred tax is recognised on temporary valuations being carried out at the end of each differences between the carrying amounts reporting period.
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax Financial statements 127 2 Segment reporting The Group is a global energy business that focuses on power generation.
The international operations are managed as five separate geographic regions, namely North America, Europe, Middle East, Australia and Asia, and this reflects the different characteristics within each region.
The segment disclosures are based on the components that the Board monitors in making decisions about operating matters.
Such components are identified on the basis of internal reports that the Board reviews regularly in allocating resources to segments and in assessing their performance, which are prepared on a basis which excludes exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
As the Group is structured and managed as five regions, the segment results, assets and liabilities are presented in this way.
The accounting policies applied in the presentation of results of the five reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 1.
Refer to notes 36 and 37 for a list of significant entities within each region.
a Revenue All five reportable segments derive their revenue from electricity generation.
There is no inter-segment revenue, therefore only revenue obtained from customers external to the Group is presented.
The results presented reflect the geographical location of both the businesses and their customers, i. e. there are no material cross-border sales.
Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and restated ventures and restated associates associates restated m m m m m m Revenue excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 660 188 848 669 202 871 Europe 1,703 411 2,114 1,833 435 2,268 Middle East 102 280 382 99 193 292 Australia 938 10 948 841 12 853 Asia 53 644 697 46 595 641 3,456 1,533 4,989 3,488 1,437 4,925 Revenue including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 681 188 869 618 202 820 Europe 1,396 411 1,807 1,960 435 2,395 Middle East 102 280 382 99 193 292 Australia 1,112 10 1,122 960 12 972 Asia 53 644 697 46 595 641 3,344 1,533 4,877 3,683 1,437 5,120 In addition to the revenue of the five reportable segments above, the following tables present the revenue from external customers attributed to the UK, International Powers country of domicile, and attributed to individual foreign countries where they are material.
The other category is used to aggregate individual foreign countries which are not material.
Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and restated ventures and restated associates associates restated m m m m m m Revenue excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements US 559 64 623 666 60 726 Italy 118 186 304 113 112 225 UK 1,199 84 1,283 1,238 81 1,319 Australia 938 10 948 841 12 853 Other 642 1,189 1,831 630 1,172 1,802 3,456 1,533 4,989 3,488 1,437 4,925 Revenue including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements US 580 64 644 615 60 675 Italy 118 186 304 113 112 225 UK 892 84 976 1,367 81 1,448 Australia 1,112 10 1,122 960 12 972 Other 642 1,189 1,831 628 1,172 1,800 3,344 1,533 4,877 3,683 1,437 5,120 128 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Segment reporting continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and restated ventures and restated associates associates restated m m m m m m b Profit from operations Profit from operations excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 83 43 126 100 34 134 Europe 417 51 468 571 76 647 Middle East 47 62 109 51 34 85 Australia 228 2 230 229 4 233 Asia 30 80 110 18 83 101 805 238 1,043 969 231 1,200 Corporate 48 48 52 52 757 238 995 917 231 1,148 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within profit from operations 339 242 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 656 1,390 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 114 41 155 110 39 149 Europe 99 36 63 657 76 733 Middle East 47 62 109 51 35 86 Australia 400 1 399 349 4 353 Asia 30 101 131 18 103 121 492 239 731 1,185 257 1,442 Corporate 75 75 52 52 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 417 239 656 1,133 257 1,390 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 656 1,390 Disposals of interests in businesses exceptional 57 449 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 392 439 Net finance costs exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 123 107 Profit before tax 198 1,293 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 64 115 Tax credit expense exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 63 46 Profit for the year 197 1,132 An analysis of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is included in note 8.
Financial statements 129 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m c Depreciation and amortisation expenses excluding exceptional items North America 92 98 Europe 203 164 Middle East 5 4 Australia 125 102 Asia 4 4 429 372 Corporate 3 2 432 374 Depreciation and amortisation expenses are included within profit from operations.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m d Additions to property, plant and equipment North America 35 35 Europe 97 94 Middle East 2 4 Australia 97 85 Asia 8 1 239 219 Corporate 1 240 219 The table above includes property, plant and equipment recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries, in addition to expenditure incurred during the year.
Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Contracts Emission Contracts Emission and rights certificates and rights certificates m m m m e Expenditure on intangible assets North America 1 2 23 3 Europe 74 28 Australia 10 6 1 86 23 37 No goodwill has been recognised either in 2010 or 2009.
The table above includes intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries, in addition to expenditure incurred on other intangible assets during the year.
130 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 3 Profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting : Amortisation of other intangible assets excluding exceptional items 98 51 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment excluding exceptional items 334 323 Exceptional items before tax note 8 275 354 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements before tax note 8 130 230 Project development costs, net of recoveries and amounts capitalised 17 9 Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment 25 31 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 12 12 Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of joint ventures and associates but before disposals of interests in businesses, finance income, finance expenses and tax.
Other operating income includes compensation for the late commissioning of plants, billings in respect of operations and maintenance services, profit on sale of development sites and dividends from entities which are not accounted for under the equity method.
Other operating expenses comprise corporate costs, Group-wide general administrative overheads and project development expenses.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.7 2.5 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or Group 2.4 Other services 0.2 0.1 5.9 3.2 Other services comprise those supplied pursuant to legislation, tax services and services relating to information technology.
In aggregate, these services had a value of 0.2 million during 2010 2009: 0.1 million.
The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Examples of pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of certain taxation and regulatory advice, and the completion of certain financial due diligence work.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
Financial statements 131 4 Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Group finance income Interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss on: available-for-sale financial assets 1 3 loans to joint ventures and associates 21 21 cash and cash equivalents 12 15 Total Group finance income calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss 34 39 Interest income comprises interest earned from bank deposits and other financial assets.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest income of 45 million 2009: 40 million.
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 24 and 31d.
5 Finance expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Group finance expenses excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Interest on: bank loans and overdrafts 285 335 other loans and bonds 128 128 unwinding discount on provisions 2 2 other payables 11 5 Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss 426 470 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 2 3 Foreign exchange loss 2 11 Total interest expense on liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 426 478 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on derivative financial instruments loss 123 107 Total Group finance expenses 549 585 Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 24 and 31d.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest expense, excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements of 154 million 2009: 139 million.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within interest expense of joint ventures and associates amount to a gain of 23 million 2009: 33 million.
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses include a charge of 134 million in respect of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 2009: a charge of 80 million, a credit of 10 million in respect of the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 2009: a charge of 25 million and a credit of 6 million in respect of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 2009: a charge of 4 million refer to note 8.
132 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 6 Employee benefit costs and employee numbers Employee benefit costs, including Directors remuneration, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 208 192 Social security costs 10 13 Post-employment benefits Defined contribution plans note 7 8 7 Defined benefit plans note 7 15 12 Share-based payments equity settled 12 7 253 231 Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment 5 4 Total employee benefit costs 248 227 The average number of employees during the financial year, analysed by geographic segment was: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Number Number North America 380 379 Europe 863 1,323 Middle East 544 523 Australia 919 900 Asia 602 599 Corporate and development 212 212 Average number of employees 3,520 3,936 7 Retirement benefit obligations Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees.
Benefits granted have been developed to reflect local practice and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK and Australia: UK: The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS, which is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds.
The ESPS is divided into sections.
The International Power Group of the ESPS was opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees past service rights were transferred into the Group later that year.
The majority of employees taken on in First Hydro, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, are members of another section of the ESPS, the First Hydro Group.
Following a strategic review of the Groups exposure to pension risk over the long-term and a period of consultation with employees and their representatives, both the International Power Group of the ESPS and the First Hydro Group of the ESPS in the UK were closed to new members effective from 1 June 2008.
Existing members continue to accrue future service benefits under these plans.
UK employees hired after 1 June 2008 have been eligible to become members of a defined contribution pension plan.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2007.
The results of these valuations have been updated to 31 December 2010 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2010, approximately 62% of the pension liability of the First Hydro Group and 89% of the International Power Group of the ESPS related to members in service.
Financial statements 133 AUSTRALIA: Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper.
This plan provides benefits primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria.
Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 for Equipsuper and the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme respectively.
At 31 December 2010, 96% of the pension liability in respect of the Australian schemes relates to members in service.
The liabilities and costs for IAS 19 were determined using the projected unit credit method.
As set out in note 1ae, actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in 2010 were losses of 10 million 2009: 13 million.
The charge for 2010 in respect of defined contribution plans was 8 million 2009: 7 million.
The Group used the following financial assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia % % % % % % % % % % Discount rate 5.3 4.9 5.7 4.8 5.7 3.7 5.8 5.3 5.1 4.9 Rate of increase in salaries 4.7 5.4 5.2 4.0 4.4 4.5 4.9 4.3 4.6 4.3 Inflation rate 3.6 3.0 3.7 3.0 2.9 3.0 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.0 Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 3.6 n a 3.7 n a 2.9 n a 3.4 n a 3.1 n a Increases to pensions payments 3.6 n a 3.7 n a 2.9 n a 3.4 n a 3.1 n a The mortality assumptions used have a significant impact on scheme liabilities for the UK plans.
The UK mortality assumptions at 31 December 2010 are based on a standard table derived from 19992002 census data.
The mortality tables allow for additional longevity improvements reflecting specific trends in the UK population regarding certain age groups.
The following table of average life expectancies illustrates the mortality assumptions used: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 UK UK UK UK UK years years years years years Life expectancy for a member aged 60 at year-end Men 26.7 26.1 26.0 25.9 22.8 Women 28.7 28.7 28.6 28.5 26.1 Life expectancy for a member aged 60 in 20 years time Men 29.6 27.5 27.4 27.3 23.7 Women 30.9 29.7 29.6 29.5 27.2 The plans in Australia provide lump sums at retirement and therefore the mortality assumptions are much less important.
The amounts recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plans for the year ended 31 December 2010, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Current service cost 16 11 Past service cost 2 Expected return on schemes assets 21 16 Interest on schemes liabilities 20 15 Total operating charge 15 12 Amounts charged to cost of sales were 7 million 2009: 6 million and charged to other operating expenses were 8 million 2009: 6 million.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Actuarial gain on fair value of assets 4 19 Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligations 14 32 Actuarial loss recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 10 13 134 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 7 Retirement benefit obligations continued The expected long-term rates of return weighted averages on the assets in the schemes were as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia % % % % % % % % % % Equities 7.7 7.8 8.0 7.8 7.4 7.8 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.8 Bonds 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.4 5.1 5.2 5.1 4.7 4.6 Other 7.0 6.1 7.0 6.1 6.7 6.0 6.7 6.0 6.2 5.9 Total long-term rate of return expected 7.1 7.1 7.4 7.0 6.9 7.0 7.5 7.0 7.1 6.7 The expected rates of return reflect the Groups best estimate of the investment returns that will be earned on each asset class.
These returns are based on advice provided by independent qualified actuaries.
The expected rates of return on bonds reflect the plans mix between index-linked, government and corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added to long-term government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities.
Other assets principally comprise cash, property and hedge funds.
The expected return on cash is derived from short-term interest rates and the return on cash instruments.
The expected return on other assets such as property is determined by adding an appropriate risk premium to government bonds in the relevant country.
Assets in the schemes were as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Equities 127 97 224 100 74 174 80 57 137 116 68 184 108 55 163 Bonds 26 19 45 19 16 35 19 16 35 20 18 38 17 15 32 Other 28 39 67 38 30 68 29 18 47 19 23 42 10 21 31 Total market value of assets 181 155 336 157 120 277 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 A reconciliation of the schemes deficits surpluses to the carrying amount in the statement of financial position is as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Total market value of assets 181 155 336 157 120 277 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 Present value of scheme liabilities 265 179 444 230 144 374 177 124 301 176 93 269 158 83 241 Deficit surplus in the schemes 84 24 108 73 24 97 49 33 82 21 16 5 23 8 15 Movements in fair value of assets: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 277 219 Expected return on assets 21 16 Actuarial gain 4 19 Employer contributions 19 13 Scheme participants contributions 4 4 Benefits paid, net of transfers in 10 7 Expenses, taxes and premiums paid 2 1 Exchange differences 23 14 At 31 December 336 277 Financial statements 135 Movements in defined benefit obligations: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 374 301 Service cost 16 11 Interest cost 20 15 Actuarial loss 14 32 Scheme participants contributions 4 4 Benefits paid, net of transfers in 10 7 Settlements, curtailments and amendments 2 Expenses, taxes and premiums paid 2 1 Exchange differences 28 17 At 31 December 444 374 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure scheme liabilities are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Increase Increase effect effect % % Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% 8.2 7.8 Rate of increase in salaries Increase by 0.5% 6.0 3.1 Inflation UK plans only Increase by 0.5% 11.5 11.5 Rate of mortality UK plans only Life expectancy increases by one year 3.6 3.0 A history of experience gains and losses is as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes assets: Amount m 4 19 73 4 9 Percentage of schemes assets 1% 7% 33% 2% 4% Experience gain loss on schemes liabilities excluding effect of changes in assumptions : Amount m 1 4 3 5 2 Percentage of the present value of schemes liabilities 1% 1% 2% 1% Contributions in 2011 The Group expects to make contributions in respect of the foregoing defined benefit pension schemes of approximately 42 million in 2011.
136 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements In accordance with the basis of preparation outlined in note 1, the Group separately presents exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Those items that the Group separately presents as exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures.
Where these contracts do not achieve own use treatment, hedge accounting or wholly effective hedge effectiveness under IAS 39, the Group separately presents the mark to market movements on these contracts, recorded within the consolidated income statement to allow an understanding of underlying business performance.
Mark to market movements on convertible bonds, where the conversion option, if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity are also separately presented to allow an understanding of the underlying business performance.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 112 195 Amounts recognised in revenue 112 195 Impairment of Rugeley plant 98 Impairment of goodwill relating to Maestrale wind farms 175 Impairment of receivable relating to Levanto wind farms 70 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 89 116 Amounts recognised in cost of sales 184 46 Transaction costs in respect of the Combination 27 Impairment of available-for-sale investment 17 25 Amounts recognised in other operating expenses 44 25 Impairment of Derwent 15 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 16 26 Amounts recognised in share of results of joint ventures and associates 1 26 Disposal of SEA Gas 57 Disposal of International Power Opatovice 427 Disposal of Hartwell 22 Amounts recognised in disposals of interests in businesses 57 449 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on: 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 134 80 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 10 25 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 6 4 Other specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 5 2 Amounts recognised in finance expenses 123 107 Taxation on impairment of Rugeley plant 27 Taxation on impairment of receivable relating to Levanto wind farms 19 Taxation on transaction costs in respect of the Combination 1 Taxation on disposal of SEA Gas 2 Taxation on disposal of Hartwell 8 Taxation on specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 37 57 Taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 63 46 Total exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements after attributable taxation 342 538 Exceptional items recognised in cost of sales As at 31 December 2010 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Rugeley plant following a reduction in observable prices for forward dark spreads.
The recoverable amount of the Rugeley plant was determined by its estimated value in use and resulted in an impairment to its carrying amount of 98 million before tax.
A tax credit of 27 million was also recognised.
This impairment is recorded within the Europe region in the segment reporting.
As at 31 December 2010 as part of its annual impairment testing of goodwill, the Group considered the impact of proposed legislation, approved by the Italian Government on 30 November 2010, relating to Maestrale.
This draft legislation indicates many changes to the existing regulatory regime, including a reduction in the level at which the regulator would support the green certificate price received by existing capacity, and a reduction in the incentives derived from refitting wind turbines.
Using a value in use methodology, the impact of the testing was to recognise within cost of sales an impairment to goodwill of 175 million 204 million.
There was no tax impact associated with this impairment.
As at 31 December 2009 the Group assessed whether there had been any objective evidence that the service concession receivable, relating to the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms, had been impaired.
Using observed historical wind volumes, in order to determine more reliable forecasts of future wind volumes, and updated forecasts of operating costs, the impact on future cash flows was estimated.
The result of this impairment test valuation was to recognise within cost of sales an impairment to the service concession receivable of 70 million, and within the total taxation charge for the year an associated deferred tax credit of 19 million.
Financial statements 137 Exceptional items recognised in other operating expenses Transaction costs of 27 million, relating to the Combination, were expensed during the year ended 31 December 2010 refer to note 39.
These costs are recorded in corporate in the segment reporting.
Transaction costs paid were 13 million.
As at 31 December 2010 the Group assessed whether there had been any objective evidence that the carrying amount of its available-for-sale investments had been impaired.
The result of this impairment test valuation was to recognise within other operating expenses an impairment of 17 million 2009: 25 million to the carrying amount of an investment pertaining to the Eggborough power plant, in the United Kingdom.
There was no tax credit associated with this impairment 2009: nil.
The impairment is recorded within the Europe region in the segment reporting.
Exceptional items recognised in share of results of joint ventures and associates The Group owns 33% of Derwent Cogeneration Limited, a 214MW gas-fired power station which operates under a long-term steam offtake contract.
On 30 June 2010 following the confirmation that the existing steam offtake contract would not be renewed, the Group assessed whether there had been any objective evidence that the carrying amount of its investment in Derwent Cogeneration Limited had been impaired.
The result of this impairment test valuation was to recognise an impairment of 15 million, which is recorded within the Europe region in the segment reporting.
Exceptional items recognised in disposals of interests in businesses On 23 November 2010 the Group completed the disposal of its 33.33% equity interest in the 687km SEA Gas pipeline to project partners, Retail Employees Superannuation Trust and Australian Pipeline Trust.
The Group realised a profit after tax of 55 million A$93 million and a cash inflow, arising from net proceeds, of 53 million.
On 13 November 2009 the Group completed the sale of International Power Opatovice, and its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans, to the Czecho-Slovak investment firm J&T Group.
Net consideration from the disposal, after costs, was 593 million and the profit on disposal was 427 million.
There was no tax charge associated with this disposal refer to note 30d.
On 14 October 2009 International Power, together with its joint venture partner, completed the sale of Hartwell Energy, a 318MW gas and oil-fired peaking facility located in Georgia, US, to Oglethorpe Power Corporation.
Proceeds from the 50% stake in Hartwell Energy amounted to 33 million and the profit on disposal was 22 million.
A tax charge of 8 million was recognised.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are separately identified within the preceding table.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 the impact of these movements on profit before tax is a loss of 130 million and on tax expense a credit of 37 million 2009: profit of 230 million and on tax expense a charge of 57 million.
9 Tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m a Tax expense for the year Current tax charge UK corporation tax charge 77 61 Foreign tax 92 76 Adjustments in respect of prior years 96 26 Total current tax charge for the year 73 111 Deferred tax charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 72 70 Benefits of tax losses recognised 20 Total deferred tax credit charge for the year 72 50 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 64 115 Tax credit expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 63 46 Total tax expense for the year 1 161 Included in the tax expense are the following amounts relating to exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, recorded in: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Revenue deferred tax 28 30 Revenue current tax 2 6 Cost of sales deferred tax 16 55 Cost of sales current tax 14 2 Other operating expenses deferred tax 1 Finance expenses deferred tax 34 21 Finance expenses current tax 2 18 Disposals of interests in businesses deferred tax 2 7 Disposals of interests in businesses current tax 1 Tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 63 46 138 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 9 Tax continued The deferred tax credit is derived as follows: credit of 150 million from UK operations 2009: charge of 53 million and charge of 78 million from foreign operations 2009: credit of 3 million.
Tax is charged to: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m Income statement 1 161 Equity 6 1 167 Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Results excluding Results including Results excluding Results including exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items and specific and specific and specific and specific IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark to market to market to market to market movements movements movements movements restated restated m m m m b Reconciliation of tax expense to accounting profit Profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 603 603 709 709 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 405 584 Profit before tax 603 198 709 1,293 Tax at domestic tax rate of 28% 2009: 28% 169 55 199 362 Tax effect of: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 9 4 2 1 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 27 28 50 54 Tax holidays 13 13 10 10 Expenses not deductible income not taxable in determining taxable profit 64 111 34 80 Losses not recognised 3 3 4 4 Change in tax rate 23 23 Adjustment to prior year provisions 100 100 60 60 Tax expense for the year 64 1 115 161 Included in profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 38 million 2009: 69 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The 27 million shown above 2009: 50 million represents 72% of this tax charge 2009: 72%.
The remaining 28% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic tax rate.
Included in profit before tax including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 39 million 2009: 75 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The 28 million shown above 2009: 54 million represents 72% of this tax charge 2009: 72%.
Included within change in tax rate is the release of deferred tax balances arising from reductions in statutory tax rates.
This includes the UK where the corporation tax rate reduces from 28% to 27% with effect from 1 April 2011.
From 1 July 2009 the UK introduced an exemption from tax for certain dividends received by UK tax resident entities.
As a result of this legislative change, the provision for unremitted earnings of joint ventures and associates was reduced by 35 million for the year ended 31 December 2009.
This was included within adjustment to prior year provisions in the tax reconciliation above.
Financial statements 139 10 Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is presented both before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Further details of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements can be found in note 8.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated pence pence a Earnings per share basic Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 29.1 32.4 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 9.5 64.5 b Earnings per share diluted Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 28.7 31.9 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 9.2 61.8 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m c Basis of calculation basic earnings Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 444 493 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and non-controlling interests 299 488 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 145 981 d Basis of calculation diluted earnings Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 444 493 After tax dilutive effect of interest on convertible bonds 9 40 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 453 533 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and non-controlling interests 299 488 After tax dilutive effect of specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on convertible bonds 8 11 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 146 1,032 Number of Ordinary Shares Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 million million e Basis of calculation basic number of Ordinary Shares Weighted average number of issued Ordinary Shares 1,523.9 1,521.3 Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 0.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS 1,523.8 1,521.3 f Basis of calculation diluted number of Ordinary Shares Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS 1,523.8 1,521.3 Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Employee share schemes 9.2 4.4 Convertible bonds 46.0 143.6 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,579.0 1,669.3 140 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 10 Earnings per share continued In the accounting periods presented, the dilutive impact of the Groups convertible bonds has been treated as follows when calculating diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 Anti-dilutive Anti-dilutive 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 Dilutive Dilutive 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 Anti-dilutive Dilutive The treatment of whether potential Ordinary Shares are dilutive or anti-dilutive in the calculation of diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is applied consistently with its determination in the calculation of diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Impact of changes in accounting policy As outlined in note 1d the comparatives have been restated for the effects of the change in accounting policy relating to the adoption of IFRIC 12.
The impact of this change on the results for the year ended 31 December 2009 was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 Profit for the Profit for the year excluding year including exceptional exceptional items and items and specific specific IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark to market to market movements movements m m As previously presented 605 1,143 Change in accounting policy relating to IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 11 11 Restated 594 1,132 As a consequence of adopting the change in accounting policy the weighted average numbers of Ordinary Shares for the basic earnings per share calculation and the diluted earnings per share calculation remain unchanged for the year ended 31 December 2009.
As a result of the change in accounting policy, the basic earnings per share before and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2009 decreased by 1.0 pence.
For the year ended 31 December 2009, the diluted earnings per share before and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements has decreased by 0.9 pence.
11 Dividends At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM held on 18 May 2010, shareholders approved the payment of a final dividend, for the year ended 31 December 2009, of 8.28 pence per Ordinary Share to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 28 May 2010.
This dividend amounted to 126 million and was paid on 24 June 2010.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2010, an interim dividend of 4.39 pence 2009: 4.25 pence per Ordinary Share, proposed by the Directors, was paid on 28 October 2010.
This dividend amounted to 67 million 2009: 64 million.
Total dividends paid in the year ended 31 December 2010 were 193 million.
Following the completion of the Combination, a special interim dividend of 1,413 million, equating to 92 pence per Ordinary Share, was paid on 25 February 2011 to the holders of such shares, excluding holders of New Ordinary Shares refer to note 39.
This dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2010.
In respect of the current year, the Directors also propose a final dividend of 6.52 pence 2009: 8.28 pence per Ordinary Share.
This dividend equates to 332 million 2009: 126 million and will be paid on 23 June 2011, subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
There are no tax consequences to the Company arising from the interim, special or final dividends.
Financial statements 141 12 Goodwill 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Carrying amount At 1 January 887 941 Impairment 175 Disposal of subsidiary 11 Exchange differences 1 43 At 31 December 713 887 As outlined in note 8, at 31 December 2010, as part of its annual impairment testing of goodwill, the Group considered the impact of proposed legislation, approved by the Italian government on 30 November 2010, relating to Maestrale.
This led to the recognition of an impairment of 175 million, based on the estimated value in use.
The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate used in measuring value in use was 10%.
The disposal in 2009 relates to International Power Opatovice in the Czech Republic see notes 8 and 30c.
Given the geographical diversity of the Groups businesses and the nature of their operations, for impairment testing purposes the Directors consider that each business is a separate cash generating unit.
The following cash generating units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill: 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Maestrale Europe 281 472 First Hydro Europe 163 163 Simply Energy Australia 118 100 Turbogs Europe 77 80 Coleto Creek North America 48 46 Saltend Europe 23 23 Others 3 3 713 887 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or when there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The cash generating units recoverable amounts are determined from value in use calculations.
Value in use calculations are based on projected cash flows from individual project whole life asset models and are updated during an annual valuation exercise approved by the Directors.
The projected risk-adjusted cash flows are expressed in nominal terms and extend over the whole of the assets expected lives as this best reflects the long-term nature of the returns generated by the long-life assets.
The whole of life cash flows include those pertaining to the liquidation of the businesses at the end of the assets lives.
The key assumptions include the market prices for electricity, fuel, carbon and operating costs over the lives of the assets and the discount rates applied to the cash flows.
Market price assumptions are considered in the light of forward price curves which represents the Groups view as to prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates and forecast demand and supply growth over the lives of the assets.
Electricity prices beyond the period of an observable market are determined by reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and start building additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Projected wind yields are based on historical data and wind study reports provided by third party consultants.
To test for impairment, the pre-tax cash flows have been discounted using pre-tax rates.
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates take into account current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the respective cash generating unit.
Generally, the lower end of the discount rate range is applied to entities where demand risk is borne by the offtaker, while the upper end of the discount rate range is applied to merchant businesses, reflecting the increased demand risk and the possible variability of future cash flows.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Remaining asset lives and period over which cash flows are discounted years 15 to 41 16 to 42 Pre-tax discount rates 7% to 15% 7% to 12% Sensitivity analysis The recoverable amounts of cash generating units are in excess of their carrying amounts.
For merchant generation businesses, a decrease in the forward price curves of electricity, and for long-term contracted PPA businesses, a reduction in the capacity payments, over the lives of the assets in the range of 5% to 34% 2009: 4% to 24% would be required for the cash generating units recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts.
Increasing the pre-tax discount rates between 1% and 11% 2009: 1% and 18% would be required for the cash generating units recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts.
142 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 13 Other intangible assets Contracts Emission Total and rights certificates m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 409 133 542 Additions 37 37 Acquisition of subsidiaries 23 23 Disposals 86 86 Exchange differences 13 11 24 At 31 December 2009 419 73 492 Additions 1 83 84 Disposals 68 68 Exchange differences 2 2 4 At 31 December 2010 422 90 512 Amortisation and impairments At 1 January 2009 285 61 346 Amortisation charge for the year 27 24 51 Disposals 64 64 Exchange differences 4 3 7 At 31 December 2009 308 18 326 Amortisation charge for the year 25 73 98 Disposals 53 53 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 2010 333 37 370 Carrying amount At 1 January 2009 124 72 196 At 31 December 2009 111 55 166 At 31 December 2010 89 53 142 The intangible assets acquired in 2009 include development projects relating to the acquisitions of AIM PowerGen by International Power Canada Inc which are assessed to have indefinite lives.
There are no other intangible assets, other than goodwill, with indefinite useful lives.
Contracts and rights with finite lives are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
The Group has recognised any emission certificates, allocated to the Group for no consideration, net of the fair value of the grant.
As a result, no net asset or liability is shown in the statement of financial position at initial recognition.
The amortisation of any emission certificates purchased or acquired through business combinations is charged to cost of sales in the income statement over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
As part of the European Union EU Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS, designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the EU over the medium-term, the Group was granted emission certificates amounting to 58 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: 116 million.
Intangible assets with a carrying amount of 47 million 2009: 44 million are subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
Financial statements 143 14 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, Assets in Total buildings machinery and course of restated equipment construction restated restated m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 206 8,550 205 8,961 Additions 7 74 138 219 Disposal of subsidiary 59 218 4 281 Disposals 1 9 10 Reclassifications and transfers 204 200 4 Exchange differences 39 3 36 At 31 December 2009 153 8,562 142 8,857 Additions 3 71 166 240 Disposals 85 85 Reclassifications and transfers 232 216 16 Exchange differences 11 592 13 616 At 31 December 2010 167 9,372 105 9,644 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 56 1,608 1,664 Depreciation charge for the year 6 317 323 Disposal of subsidiary 21 115 136 Disposals 1 8 9 Exchange differences 56 56 At 31 December 2009 40 1,858 1,898 Depreciation charge for the year 7 327 334 Impairment 98 98 Disposals 83 83 Exchange differences 3 182 185 At 31 December 2010 50 2,382 2,432 Carrying amount At 1 January 2009 150 6,942 205 7,297 At 31 December 2009 113 6,704 142 6,959 At 31 December 2010 117 6,990 105 7,212 As described in note 8, as at 31 December 2010 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Rugeley plant following a reduction in dark spreads.
This led to the recognition of an impairment of 98 million, based on the estimated value in use of this asset.
The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate used in measuring value in use was 11%.
Interest capitalised in the year was 1 million 2009: 3 million, at an average capitalisation rate of 5%.
On a cumulative basis, after taking into account exchange differences and depreciation, the carrying amount of interest capitalised is 84 million 2009: 77 million.
The total value of land, included within land and buildings, that is not depreciated is 47 million 2009: 53 million.
In both 2010 and 2009 reclassifications and transfers include the carrying amounts of items transferred from inventory.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 6,240 million 2009: 5,774 million is subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 1 million 2009: 1 million is subject to finance lease arrangements.
144 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups joint ventures and associates is set out below: 31 December 31 December 1 January 2010 2009 2009 restated restated m m m a Joint ventures net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 1,717 1,676 1,991 Current assets 290 322 567 Total assets 2,007 1,998 2,558 Current liabilities 202 224 343 Non-current liabilities 1,120 1,111 1,141 Total liabilities 1,322 1,335 1,484 Net assets 685 663 1,074 Groups share of joint ventures net assets 357 334 537 b Associates net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 8,762 8,087 8,359 Current assets 2,545 1,719 2,176 Total assets 11,307 9,806 10,535 Current liabilities 2,014 1,344 1,761 Non-current liabilities 5,681 5,286 5,837 Total liabilities 7,695 6,630 7,598 Net assets 3,612 3,176 2,937 Groups share of associates net assets 1,333 1,230 1,163 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m c Results of joint ventures Total results of joint ventures Revenue 527 767 Profit for the year 106 144 Groups share of results of joint ventures Share of revenue 288 384 Share of profit for the year 61 81 d Results of associates Total results of associates Revenue 3,926 3,209 Profit for the year 544 486 Groups share of results of associates Share of revenue 1,245 1,053 Share of profit for the year 178 176 At 31 December 2010 the Groups investments that are listed on a recognised stock market are those in The Hub Power Company Limited HUBCO and Kot Addu Power Company Limited KAPCO.
HUBCO and KAPCO are considered associates and International Power continues to apply the equity method of accounting to HUBCO despite its shareholding being less than 20% refer to note 38a.
The Groups share of HUBCO and KAPCO was valued at 57 million 2009: 46 million and 96 million 2009: 107 million, respectively, on the major Pakistan stock markets.
Market values for Group shareholdings in these investments were 7 million below the carrying value of these investments at 31 December 2010.
However, due to the contracted nature of the income earned by these investments, the Directors consider the recoverable amount of these investments in associates to be greater than their market values.
Included within the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is net debt of 1,881 million 2009: 1,684 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group company.
A full list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 37.
Financial statements 145 16 Other investments 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Carrying amount At 1 January 63 47 Additions 43 29 Repayments 6 14 Impairment 17 25 Reclassification 30 Exchange differences 1 4 At 31 December 84 63 Other investments comprise investments available-for-sale including both debt and equity instruments in a number of businesses related to power generation.
The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of their discounted cash flows.
The equity instruments are not quoted but are shares in privately owned companies.
There is no market for these investments.
Therefore the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be measured reliably and the carrying amount has been determined by using the cost of acquiring the shares in these companies.
During the year ended 31 December 2010 available-for-sale investments were impaired by 17 million 2009: 25 million refer to note 8.
The reclassification during 2009 comprised a transfer from derivative financial assets, following the exercise of an option.
It is not currently the intention of the Company to dispose of these investments, although circumstances may change.
17 Service concession receivables 31 December 31 December 1 January 2010 2009 2009 m m m Non-current assets 1,296 1,266 1,340 Current assets 35 35 42 Total service concession receivables 1,331 1,301 1,382 An arrangement within the scope of IFRIC Interpretation 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 12 is one which involves a private sector entity known as an operator constructing infrastructure used to provide a public service, or upgrading it for example, by increasing its capacity and operating and maintaining that infrastructure for a specified period of time.
The operator is paid for its services over the period of the arrangement.
The arrangement is governed by a contract that sets out performance standards, mechanisms for adjusting prices, and arrangements for arbitrating disputes.
Such an arrangement is often described as a , a  or a public-to-private service concession arrangement.
International Power has entered into a number of such arrangements across the Group relating to the provision of electrical capacity and output from thermal power plants and wind farms located in North America, Europe, Middle East and Asia.
This infrastructure is contracted under long-term power purchase agreements PPAs, which are agreements to sell power, or fixed price wind tariffs.
As set out in note 1t, IFRIC 12 applies to public-to-private service concession arrangements if: a The grantor i. e. the public sector entity the offtaker controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and at what price.
b The grantor controls through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement.
Infrastructure used in a public-to-private service concession arrangement for its entire useful life a whole of life asset is within the scope of IFRIC 12 if the conditions in a are met.
For International Power, long-term power purchase arrangements are typically within scope of IFRIC 12 where: the offtaker is a public sector entity the offtaker provides the electricity, produced by the infrastructure, to the public there is a transfer of ownership of the power plant to the offtaker at the end of the arrangement: or the power purchase agreement is for substantially all of the economic life of the infrastructure International Powers power stations, within the scope of IFRIC 12, operate under long-term power purchase agreements, and have typically been built specifically to meet the energy requirements of the local governments, which need power to meet their public service commitments.
The PPAs are either agreements to build, operate and maintain the power plant, or to build, operate, and subsequently transfer, the power plant to the offtaker.
The offtaker agrees to purchase the entire capacity and electrical output of the power plant, and the operator agrees to sell the capacity and the electrical output energy to the offtaker on an exclusive basis.
The tariff components of each power purchase agreement are bespoke to each arrangement, but typically comprise two components: a capacity charge and an energy charge.
The capacity charge will usually remunerate the operator for the cost of construction and financing of the power plant, and fixed operating costs, and becomes due when capacity of the power plant is made available to produce energy.
The energy charge is paid based on electrical output of the plant and will usually only recover the operators variable costs of production mostly fuel.
The energy charge is usually underpinned by the actual cost of purchased fuel and is dependent on a contractual fuel to energy conversion ratio.
The operator makes investments in the power plant infrastructure to keep it operational, and usually agrees a maintenance plan with the offtaker.
All the operation and maintenance costs, including capital renewal costs, are borne by the operator.
In order to protect project level returns in developing countries, the capacity charge is usually denominated in US dollars.
Local currencies are used in developed countries.
Indexation is applied to elements of the capacity charge which recover operating costs which are subject to inflation.
Indexation could be applied monthly, annually or at dates in between depending on the arrangement.
146 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 17 Service concession receivables continued The PPAs typically last for between 20 and 40 years.
Other than indexation of components of the capacity charge, the terms of which are agreed at the outset of the contract, and the pass-through of fuel costs subject to heat rate risk, there is usually no re-pricing during the terms of the agreements.
There is, however, usually a change of law protection in the agreement which mitigates the operator to additional costs and capital expenditure related to changes in legislation, such as new emission regulations.
Because capacity charges are based on availability, rather than electrical output, demand risk and price risk are borne by the offtaker.
Therefore, in these arrangements, the operator recognises a financial asset as it has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash.
All of the Groups service concession arrangements result in the recognition of a financial asset.
None result in the recognition of an intangible asset.
Some of International Powers wind assets, particularly those in Germany, are also considered service concession arrangements because of the fixed price nature of the tariffs and the length of the agreements.
At 31 December 2009 the Group impaired the service concession receivable relating to the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms by 70 million refer to note 8.
The Group recognised the following revenue on exchanging construction services for financial assets: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Revenue 95 11 Immaterial profits were recognised on the construction element of the arrangements.
18 Finance lease receivables 31 December 31 December 1 January 2010 2009 2009 restated restated m m m Minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 42 42 47 Later than one year and not later than five years 170 166 187 Later than five years 441 463 567 Gross investment in the lease 653 671 801 Less: unearned finance income 327 346 427 Total finance lease receivables 326 325 374 Analysed as: Present value of minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 10 10 10 Later than one year and not later than five years 51 47 49 Later than five years 265 268 315 Total finance lease receivables 326 325 374 Non-current assets 316 315 364 Current assets 10 10 10 Total finance lease receivables 326 325 374 International Powers business is primarily the generation of electricity and provision of electrical capacity.
The Group enters into certain arrangements, such as long-term PPAs, to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain finance leases based on an assessment of who bears the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As outlined in note 1u, where arrangements are considered to be or to contain finance leases, the capacity payments are apportioned between minimum lease payments comprising capital repayments and finance income and service income.
The duration of minimum lease payments coincides with the tenors of the contracted cash flows and usually represents either a significant proportion, or all, of the assets life.
The interest rate inherent in the finance lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term.
The average effective interest rate contracted is approximately 10% per annum 2009: 10% per annum.
There is no unguaranteed residual value for the periods presented.
The fair value of the Groups finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2010 is estimated at 397 million 2009: 385 million based on discounting estimated cash flows at market rates.
There are no finance lease receivables past due.
Finance lease receivables are due from strong investment grade counterparties.
Financial statements 147 19 Other long-term receivables 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Total other long-term receivables 45 103 At 31 December 2010 receivables with a carrying amount of nil million 2009: 9 million were past due for more than six months for which an impairment loss has not been recognised.
During the year 9 million of long-term receivables were set off against liabilities with the same counterparty.
20 Deferred tax Deferred tax accounted for in the consolidated statement of financial position and the potential amounts of deferred tax are: 31 December 31 December 1 January 2010 2009 2009 restated restated m m m Total gross deferred tax assets 746 752 615 Less: deferred tax assets not recognised 49 49 63 Total deferred tax assets 697 703 552 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,499 1,567 1,399 Net deferred tax liabilities 802 864 847 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for statement of financial position purposes.
31 December 31 December 1 January 2010 2009 2009 restated restated m m m Deferred tax assets 18 65 122 Deferred tax liabilities 820 929 969 Net deferred tax liabilities 802 864 847 Deferred tax assets will be offset against suitable taxable profits when they arise.
The Group has 177 million 2009: 219 million potential deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses.
Of this amount 140 million 2009: 163 million can be carried forward for a period of between 11 and 20 years.
The balance can be carried forward indefinitely.
The entire 177 million of losses has been recognised 2009: 219 million.
At the end of the reporting period, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates was 7,092 million 2009: 6,087 million.
At 31 December 2010 a deferred tax provision of 36 million 2009: 33 million has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable to control the reversal of the timing difference and where tax may arise as a consequence of such a reversal.
Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability for the total aggregate undistributed earnings has not been undertaken as the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally or the UK dividend exemption.
148 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 20 Deferred tax continued Movement in temporary differences during the year: 1 January Recognised Recognised Acquisition and Other Exchange 31 December 2010 in income in equity disposal of movements differences 2010 statement subsidiaries m m m m m m m Intangible assets 15 6 1 8 Property, plant and equipment, service concession receivables, and finance lease receivables 1,154 16 10 42 1,170 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 25 11 36 Derivative financial instruments 29 53 7 2 77 Employee benefits 37 3 6 1 47 Provisions 11 2 2 15 Tax losses 219 51 9 177 Other temporary differences 34 54 4 12 96 864 72 1 10 4 15 802 1 January Recognised Recognised Acquisition and Other Exchange 31 December 2009 in income in equity disposal of movements differences 2009 restated statement subsidiaries restated restated m m m m m m m Intangible assets 23 5 1 2 15 Property, plant and equipment, service concession receivables, and finance lease receivables 1,253 68 13 3 21 1,154 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 73 46 2 25 Derivative financial instruments 116 85 12 1 9 29 Employee benefits 31 4 5 3 37 Provisions 15 2 2 11 Tax losses 253 22 12 219 Other temporary differences 87 64 3 14 34 847 50 7 11 4 33 864 21 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Plant spares 33 43 Fuel inventories 100 113 Consumables 105 95 Total inventories 238 251 Inventories with a carrying amount of 163 million 2009: 143 million are subject to fixed and floating charges of project finance facilities at various power plant subsidiaries.
These project finance facilities are non-recourse to International Power plc.
Included within cost of sales are 246 million 2009: 309 million of inventories recognised as an expense in the year.
Inventories with a carrying amount of 1 million 2009: 2 million were written off during the year and recorded as an expense in cost of sales in the income statement.
Financial statements 149 22 Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Trade receivables 181 209 Other receivables 159 192 Accrued income 329 319 Prepayments 135 92 Total trade and other receivables 804 812 Included in trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 182 million 2009: 177 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value.
Financial assets included in trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income are analysed as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Retail Corporate Government Total Retail Corporate Government Total m m m m m m m m Not overdue 46 412 130 588 34 467 96 597 Up to 1 month past due 9 9 8 1 9 Between 1 and 3 months past due 7 6 13 5 6 11 Between 3 and 6 months past due 2 1 3 2 1 3 More than 6 months past due 1 8 9 5 8 2 15 At 31 December 65 427 130 622 54 483 98 635 Retail energy sales are those to residential, commercial, and industrial customers to cover end-use purposes.
This mostly comprises sales to customers of Simply Energy in South Australia and Victoria in Australia.
Corporate energy sales are principally to merchant trading counterparties in the wholesale power market and comprise electricity utility companies, who require energy to meet retail sales requirements, and market makers such as large investment banks.
In the preceding table, the term Government is used to describe customers who are either owned directly by government or the state, or are institutions backed by guarantees from government.
Sales to these customers are typically administered under long-term power purchase agreements.
Examples of such customers will include water and electricity authorities located in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
The majority of the trade receivables, which are not overdue, relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
Corporate receivables more than six months overdue relate to contractual disputes where we have significant counter claims or offsetting liabilities.
The preceding table shows 34 million 5% of debtors are overdue and, of these, 25 million 4% relates to outstanding amounts greater than one month past due.
In respect of subsidiaries, for the year ended 31 December 2010, merchant trading and PPA counterparties have demonstrated a consistent payment history.
Trade receivables of 11 million were written off in 2010 2009: 2 million, which had previously been provided for, relating to retail energy sales.
Management maintain a bad debt provision appropriate to the limited likelihood of retail and merchant payment defaults.
Total trade and other receivables are stated net of the following provisions for irrecoverable amounts.
31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 23 24 Amounts provided for during the year 10 3 Amounts written off during the year 11 2 Disposal of subsidiary 1 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 23 23 Concentrations of credit risk relating to the Groups wholesale power sales are limited due to the diversity of unrelated customers for our power plants located worldwide.
For the Groups retail business in Australia, Simply Energy, concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being both large and unrelated.
PPAs and tolling agreements with major institutions can potentially have high concentration risk but this risk is mitigated by the diversity of similar arrangements within our worldwide portfolio.
150 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 23 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank 668 647 Short-term deposits 682 546 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 1,350 1,193 The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes 579 million 2009: 418 million of cash which is considered to be restricted as it is primarily to fund maintenance and debt service reserves required by project finance agreements, and for letters of credit.
Cash equivalents include an amount of 28 million 2009: 43 million held by counterparties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities refer to note 31j.
24 Loans and bonds An analysis of the interest-bearing loans and bonds, which are measured at amortised cost, is as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Face value Carrying Face value Carrying amount amount m m m m a Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans and other loans 317 303 573 564 1 Secured bonds 15 15 18 18 332 318 591 582 Non-current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans and other loans 4,189 4,152 4,018 3,973 1 Secured bonds 632 670 651 693 4,821 4,822 4,669 4,666 Total secured interest-bearing loans and bonds 5,153 5,140 5,260 5,248 b Unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans and other loans 6 6 25 25 3 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 141 138 6 6 166 163 Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans and other loans 3 3 11 11 2 Loans from non-controlling interests 123 123 123 123 3 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 146 146 4 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 197 181 204 181 5 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 600 523 621 526 6 7.25% senior notes 2017 214 208 1,283 1,184 959 841 Total unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds 1,289 1,190 1,125 1,004 c Total interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 338 324 757 745 Non-current liabilities 6,104 6,006 5,628 5,507 Total interest-bearing loans and bonds 6,442 6,330 6,385 6,252 A description of the items in the above table is shown overleaf.
Financial statements 151 1 Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Secured bank loans comprise amounts borrowed from commercial banks.
Secured bonds comprise those relating to the financing of First Hydro and the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
The bank loans and bonds with a carrying amount of 5,140 million 2009: 5,248 million are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
With the exception of the convertible bonds and 7.25% senior notes, which are recourse, substantially all of the Groups power stations, generating assets and other operating assets are financed under facilities which are non-recourse to International Power plc and secured solely on the assets of the subsidiary concerned.
The Group had no significant borrowings in default as at 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
2 Loans from non-controlling interests Loans from non-controlling interests comprise both term loans and working capital facilities provided by minority shareholders in subsidiaries.
These loans and working capital facilities are provided on an unsecured basis for various maturity periods and have interest terms based on fixed or floating rates as specified in each individual agreement.
3 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 On 22 August 2003, International Power Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 3.75% convertible bonds due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 147p at any time up to 12 August 2023.
Each US$1,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited.
Upon a change of control the bonds may be redeemed at the holders option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
During 2008, 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 with a par value of 12 million US$24 million were redeemed through the issue of preference shares in International Power Jersey Limited and the subsequent issue of Ordinary Shares in International Power plc.
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2013 and 2018.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bonds have been split between the debt component and an embedded derivative component.
This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 7.4%.
This includes a coupon interest rate of 3.75% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 at 31 December 2010 to be approximately 147 million 2009: 142 million.
This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2010.
4 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance Jersey II Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued 230 million 3.25% convertible bonds due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 338p at any time up to 20 July 2013.
Each 50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a 50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 6.6%.
This includes a coupon interest rate of 3.25% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 at 31 December 2010 to be approximately 200 million 2009: 185 million.
5 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 On 5 June 2008, International Power Finance Jersey III Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued e700 million 4.75% convertible bonds due 2015, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 539p at any time up to 26 May 2015.
Each e50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a e50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 5 June 2015 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The interest charged during the year comprises two components: a coupon of 4.75% and accretion on the debt component set out above.
The overall effective interest rate is 8.4%.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 at 31 December 2010 to be approximately 632 million 2009: 580 million.
152 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 24 Loans and bonds continued 6 7.25% senior notes 2017 On 11 May 2010, International Power Finance 2010 plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Power plc, received the proceeds from its 250 million 7.25% senior notes due 2017.
The proceeds from the issue of the senior notes, before deducting debt issue costs, were 248 million 213 million.
The senior notes are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by International Power plc and are listed on the official list of the UK Listing Authority for trading on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Upon a change of control, the senior notes may be redeemed at the holders option at 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption.
As a consequence of the change in the composition of the shareholders of International Power plc, arising from the Combination refer to note 39, International Power Finance 2010 plc has offered to purchase all outstanding senior notes.
The offer period ends on 25 March 2011.
Unless previously redeemed, the outstanding senior notes will be subject to a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount on maturity date of 11 May 2017.
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations The Group has loans denominated in foreign currencies that have been designated as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations in Europe and Australia.
The carrying amount of these non-derivative financial liabilities, used as hedging instruments, at the end of the reporting period was: 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Euro 932 727 Australian dollar 41 41 973 768 The foreign exchange gain of 18 million 2009: 58 million on retranslation of these loans has been recognised in other comprehensive income on consolidation.
Maturity of borrowings The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest coupons, relating to loans and bonds and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts: 31 December 2010 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans and other loans 527 1,728 1,682 1,516 5,453 51 947 4,455 Unsecured bank loans and other loans 6 1 2 1 10 1 9 Secured bonds 65 64 191 828 1,148 463 685 Loans from non-controlling interests 6 126 132 9 123 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 5 6 16 190 217 71 146 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 6 6 204 216 1 34 181 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 29 28 669 726 5 198 523 7.25% senior euro notes 2017 15 16 46 238 315 5 102 208 659 1,975 2,810 2,773 8,217 62 1,825 6,330 31 December 2009 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans and other loans 725 473 2,584 1,817 5,599 54 1,008 4,537 Unsecured bank loans and other loans 26 9 1 2 38 2 36 Secured bonds 68 65 195 894 1,222 511 711 Loans from non-controlling interests 5 5 129 139 16 123 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 3 5 16 189 213 75 138 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 4 7 217 228 2 45 181 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 27 30 88 636 781 7 248 526 858 594 3,230 3,538 8,220 63 1,905 6,252 Other non-cash items represent debt issue costs.
The above tables assume the convertible bonds are redeemed by the payment of cash at maturity.
Financial statements 153 25 Net debt 1 January On acquisition On disposal Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2010 of subsidiaries of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2010 excluding cash excluding cash movements m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,193 112 45 1,350 Loans due within one year 589 10 300 30 309 Loans due after more than one year 4,107 22 61 210 4,278 Secured bonds due within one year 18 11 13 1 15 Secured bonds due after more than one year 693 15 8 670 Senior notes 209 1 208 Convertible bonds 845 24 19 850 Total debt 6,252 32 165 211 6,330 Net debt 5,059 32 277 166 4,980 1 January On acquisition On disposal Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2009 of subsidiaries of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2009 excluding cash excluding cash movements m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,129 49 15 1,193 Loans due within one year 404 23 490 291 9 589 Loans due after more than one year 5,388 85 140 474 554 198 4,107 Secured bonds due within one year 17 16 13 2 18 Secured bonds due after more than one year 738 20 25 693 Convertible bonds 900 25 80 845 Total debt 7,447 85 163 37 858 296 6,252 Net debt 6,318 85 163 37 907 311 5,059 Included within other non-cash movements is the accretion of the carrying amount of the convertible bonds and amortisation of debt issue costs and fair value adjustments.
26 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Trade payables 113 102 Other payables 208 242 Accruals 438 484 Deferred income 43 47 Total trade and other payables 802 875 Included in trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 69 million 2009: 90 million.
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
All trade and other payables above are expected to fall due within one year.
154 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 27 Provisions Commodity Leave Site Other Total contracts provisions restoration m m m m m At 1 January 2010 11 28 29 23 91 Changes in accounting estimates 5 5 Provisions made during the year 9 10 19 Provisions utilised during the year 6 9 2 17 Unused amounts reversed during the year 2 2 Unwinding discount 1 1 2 Exchange differences 1 6 4 11 At 31 December 2010 1 35 34 29 99 Analysed as: 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Current liabilities 30 23 Non-current liabilities 69 68 Total provisions 99 91 Financial liabilities 43 35 Non-financial liabilities 56 56 Total provisions 99 91 Commodity contracts Commodity contracts principally relate to out of the money power sales contracts that were acquired as part of the acquisition of Coleto Creek in 2006.
When the provisions were utilised they were credited to revenue in the income statement.
The provision relating to Coleto Creek was fully utilised in 2010.
Leave provisions Leave provisions relate to unutilised annual and long service leave at the end of the reporting period.
The annual leave is expected to be taken over the next three years and the long service leave over the next 21 years.
The provision is calculated based on total employee cost.
Site restoration Site restoration provisions relate to legal obligations to restore land to a certain condition, at certain of the Groups power stations, wind farms and coal mine at the end of their useful lives.
The estimated present value of rehabilitating the sites at the end of their useful lives has been estimated using existing technology, at current prices, and discounted using discount rates of 5% to 6%.
The timing of these payments is dependent on various factors, such as the estimated lives of the power stations and extraction of coal from the mine, but is anticipated to occur predominantly between 2017 and 2047, with the substantial majority of the provisions being utilised from 2028 onwards.
Other Other provisions comprise various items including legacy pension commitments relating to non-Group members of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme, onerous property leases, probable penalties and settlement amounts relating to disputes and contingent payment arrangements.
The legacy pension commitment provisions are not expected to require settlement in the short-term.
The Directors are uncertain as to the timing of when the remaining provisions will be utilised.
Financial statements 155 28 Share-based payments a Number of shares and exercise prices under Share Option Plans The Group operates the following employee share plans for which shares may be issued upon exercise of employee share options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan, the UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans, the Global Executive Share Option Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
The total number of options and conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company outstanding at the end of the year was as follows: Option price range Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Sharesave Plans 200.00p389.00p 20112016 4,679,846 5,381,907 Executive Share Option Plans 62.32p388.25p 20032020 14,796,191 17,708,391 Total options outstanding 19,476,037 23,090,298 2002 Performance Share Plan 9,911,662 8,894,267 Total Ordinary Shares subject to employee share plans 29,387,699 31,984,565 Details of each plan are set out on the following pages.
i Sharesave Plans The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other jurisdictions to invest up to a maximum of 250 or foreign currency equivalent per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group.
The option prices are fixed at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date of grant of the option.
Options are exercisable at the prices set out below.
The option exercise period commences either three or five years after the option has been granted determined at the time that the employee enters into the savings agreement and if the options remain unexercised after a period of six months following the beginning of the option exercise period, the options expire.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences.
Details of the share options outstanding at the end of the year are as follows: Option price Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 200.00p 2011 963,471 986,381 389.00p 2011 90,621 229,251 389.00p 2013 95,012 406,961 262.00p 2012 660,726 842,388 262.00p 2014 948,079 1,068,350 239.00p 2013 1,057,387 1,144,657 239.00p 2015 661,764 703,919 316.00p 2014 138,043 316.00p 2016 64,743 4,679,846 5,381,907 The number and weighted average exercise prices of the Sharesave Plan share options are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Ordinary average Ordinary average Shares exercise price Shares exercise price in pence in pence Options outstanding at beginning of the year 5,381,907 257.75 5,852,924 253.14 Granted during the year 202,786 316.00 1,875,834 239.00 Exercised during the year 52,564 250.01 1,287,918 188.85 Expired during the year 8,422 200.00 Forfeited during the year 852,283 324.75 1,050,511 283.52 Options outstanding at end of the year 4,679,846 248.16 5,381,907 257.75 Options exercisable at end of the year The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Sharesave Plan share options exercised during the year was 344.09 pence 2009: 246.83 pence.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 200.00 pence to 389.00 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 2.4 years 2009: 3.4 years.
The terms of the outstanding Sharesave Plan share options have not been adjusted as a result of the Combination although, when participants exercise their options under these Plans, following the record date for the special dividend, they will be entitled to receive a cash payment of 92 pence per Ordinary Share to compensate them for not having received the special dividend refer to note 11.
156 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 28 Share-based payments continued ii Executive Share Option Plans The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan are discretionary employee share option plans.
Options are granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company.
The exercise price of the options is fixed at the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date that the options are granted.
The option exercise period is between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised before the expiry of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee resigns.
After the end of the reporting period, on 4 January 2011, in anticipation of the Combination and in accordance with the Executive Share Option Plan Rules, the Executive Share Options that were granted in 2008, 2009 and 2010 vested.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Executive Share Options exercised during the year was 392.31 pence 2009: 277.22 pence.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 62.32 pence to 388.25 pence as outlined in the table above.
For the share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 5.4 years 2009: 6.4 years.
Financial statements 157 iii 2002 Performance Share Plan The 2002 Performance Share Plan is a discretionary employee share plan.
Under this plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group are awarded conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company.
These conditional awards may vest three years after the awards have been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition determined at the time that the conditional awards are made which relates to growth in normalised earnings per share and total shareholder return.
The number of the conditional awards over Ordinary Shares arising from the 2002 Performance Share Plan at the end of the year are as follows: Vesting year Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 1,835,297 2011 2,158,511 2,198,345 2012 4,763,831 4,860,625 2013 2,989,320 9,911,662 8,894,267 The number of conditional rights over Ordinary Shares are as follows: Number of Ordinary Shares Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Awards outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,894,267 6,274,801 Conditional awards made during the year 3,021,800 4,964,373 Released during the year 1,091,433 2,110,587 Forfeited during the year 912,972 234,320 Awards outstanding at end of the year 9,911,662 8,894,267 In December 2010, the participants of the 2002 Performance Share Plan agreed to cancel their existing awards subject to completion of the Combination in return for a cash payment from the Company.
The amount of the cash payment would reflect the extent to which the 2002 Performance Share Plan awards would have vested on the basis that the Combination had been treated as a change of control event for the purposes of the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
Following completion of the Combination, the relevant performance conditions have been calculated up to the end of 2010 and the level of vesting according to performance have been reduced on a time basis to reflect the fact that the Combination occurred before the end of the applicable performance periods.
In order to ensure that award holders are incentivised to stay with the enlarged International Power and to align their interests with those of shareholders, a new restricted share plan has been put in place for participants of the 2002 Performance Share Plan and awards will be made in March 2011 following the announcement of the Groups preliminary results.
The number of restricted Ordinary Shares conditionally awarded to each PSP participant will be based on PSP performance up to the end of December 2010 and pro-rated for time to the end of 2011 following completion of the Combination, less the number of Ordinary Shares to which the above cash payment relates.
The restricted Ordinary Shares will vest at the end of 2011 or earlier where normal good leaver circumstances are applicable.
If the awarding of restricted Ordinary Shares may give rise to regulatory or tax social security issues in any jurisdictions, alternative arrangements having, so far as reasonably possible, a similar effect to restricted Ordinary Shares will be put in place for participants of the 2002 Performance Share Plan in those jurisdictions.
b Fair value of options under Share Option Plans i Sharesave Plans The estimated fair value of the options at the date of grant, for those granted during the year, was 106 pence per share 2009: 60 pence per share.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 400p 267p Weighted average exercise price 316p 239p Expected volatility 30% 30% Expected life 4 years 4 years Risk free rate 1.33% 2.23% Expected dividend yield 3.20% 3.50% 158 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 28 Share-based payments continued ii Executive Share Option Plans The estimated fair value of the options at the date of grant, for those granted during the year, was 64 pence per share 2009: 42 pence per share.
The inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 329p 210p Weighted average exercise price 329p 196p Expected volatility 30% 30% Expected life 4 years 4 years Risk free rate 2.87% 2.22% Expected dividend yield 3.50% 3.98% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous five years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
iii 2002 Performance Share Plan The estimated fair value of conditional awards at the date of grant, over Ordinary Shares in the Company granted during the year, was 246 pence per share 2009: 137 pence per share.
For conditional awards made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, without a market-related performance condition, the fair values have been calculated as the face value of the award, discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method.
Inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Risk free rate 2.97% 1.89% Expected dividend yield 3.50% 3.98% 29 Share capital and reserves a Share capital Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m At 1 January 2010 1,522,367,739 761 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 5,238,577 3 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 52,564 Issue of shares under 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 408 At 31 December 2010 1,527,659,288 764 Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m At 1 January 2009 1,518,732,624 759 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 236,610 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 1,287,918 1 Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan 2,110,587 1 At 31 December 2009 1,522,367,739 761 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to voting rights, the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll, every shareholder present in person or proxy has one vote in respect of every share held.
Deferred Shares The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 penny each in issue.
These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and Innogy in 2000 was effected as efficiently as possible.
The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting.
Financial statements 159 Unclassified share Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Companys share capital includes one unclassified share of 1.
Capital and reserves The share capital represents the Ordinary Shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution of dividends or capital of the Company.
The Company operates two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs in which shares may be held for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the Companys 2002 Performance Share Plan.
During 2010 3,301,433 shares were purchased and placed into trust 2009: nil.
The total cost of the acquisition was 13 million 2009: nil.
1,091,433 shares were utilised during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
At 31 December 2010 these ESOTs held 2,210,000 shares.
The market value of shares held in trust at 31 December 2010 was 10 million 2009: nil.
During 2009 2,110,587 shares were issued and placed into trust.
These shares were utilised during 2009 to satisfy employee share awards.
No shares were held by the ESOTs at 31 December 2009.
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
The capital redemption reserve was created in March 1995 when the Company purchased and then cancelled approximately 98 million of its Ordinary Shares in conjunction with HM Treasurys sale of its remaining 40% shareholding in the Company.
The reserve was subsequently increased in the years ended 31 March 1996, 31 March 2000 and 31 December 2003 when further share purchases were made and these shares were cancelled.
The capital redemption reserve is not distributable.
The capital reserve was vested in the Company at 31 March 1990 under the Transfer Scheme whereby the net assets of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB were divided among the CEGB successor companies.
The revaluation reserve comprises the deficit arising from the revaluation of certain intangible assets as part of the step acquisition of Simply Energy on 16 August 2007.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred and to cumulative gains and losses on hedging instruments that no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, until the forecast transaction occurs.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign operations refer to note 31d.
Retained earnings represent total income and expense in the current and prior years attributable to equity holders of the parent, less cumulative dividends to shareholders, and other movements relating to, for example, share based payments and transfers from the revaluation reserve.
b Note to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Before tax Tax Net of Before tax Tax Net of amount expense tax amount expense tax benefit amount restated benefit amount restated restated m m m m m m Net loss gain on cash flow hedges Loss gain arising during the year 136 15 121 61 7 68 Less: reclassification adjustments for gain loss included in profit or loss 67 12 55 133 32 101 Less: adjustments for amounts transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items 23 23 11 11 46 3 43 205 25 180 Net exchange gain recognised on net investment hedges 18 5 13 58 16 42 Exchange gain loss arising on translation of foreign operations 235 4 239 233 34 199 Reclassification adjustments relating to foreign operations disposed of during the year 3 1 2 94 94 Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans 10 3 7 13 4 9 Movements in other comprehensive income for the year 200 4 204 77 3 80 160 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 30 Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisition of development companies by IPA Wind Development, LLC On 2 June 2010, IPA Wind Development, LLC.
IPA Wind, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed the acquisition of the entire issued and outstanding membership interests in nine nascent companies from Element Markets, LLC.
The vendor has a call option over 30% of the project companies equity.
On completion, IPA Wind owned a development pipeline of wind businesses concentrated in Texas and Illinois.
The results of the businesses have been consolidated as subsidiaries with effect from the date of completion using the acquisition method.
Other than an immaterial upfront cash payment, the purchase price is wholly contingent on future events.
Transaction costs, which have been expensed, were immaterial.
The terms of the acquisition include consideration to be paid to the vendor contingent upon completion of identified milestones.
These milestones include execution of interconnections agreements, receipt of proceeds from project financing, execution of power purchase agreements, and achievement of commercial operations.
Given the uncertainties surrounding the ability to achieve identified milestones, no material intangible asset or liabilities for contingent consideration have been recognised in these consolidated financial statements.
In the period from 2 June 2010 to 31 December 2010, IPA Wind did not contribute any revenue to the Group.
It incurred an immaterial loss, which is included in the Groups results for the year.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 January 2010 the business would also not have contributed any revenue to the Group.
It would also have incurred an immaterial loss.
b Acquisition of AIM PowerGen Corporation On 21 October 2009 International Power Canada Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed the acquisition of the whole of the voting share capital of AIM PowerGen Corporation from Renewable Energy Generation Limited.
On completion, International Power Canada Inc owned 40MW of wind farms in operation, 40MW of wind farms under construction, and a development pipeline.
The purchase price, including contingent consideration and transaction costs, was C$126 million 73 million.
The results of the business have been consolidated as a subsidiary with effect from the date of completion using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below: Acquirees Fair value Fair value to carrying adjustments the Group amount m m m Intangible assets 24 1 23 Service concession receivables 106 2 104 Trade and other receivables 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 36 36 Trade and other payables 2 2 Loans and bonds 89 4 85 Derivative financial liabilities 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 4 2 2 Net assets acquired 70 3 73 Components of cost of acquisition Consideration paid 68 Directly attributable acquisition costs 2 Contingent consideration 3 Consideration including acquisition costs 73 Satisfied by: Consideration including acquisition costs 73 Contingent consideration 3 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 36 Net cash outflow to the Group 34 In the period from 21 October 2009 to 31 December 2009, International Power Canada Inc contributed 2 million to revenue both including and excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and made no contribution to the Groups profit from operations both including and excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
In the same period post acquisition, International Power Canada Inc made no material contribution to the Groups net operating cash flows or any material tax payments.
It paid 1 million in respect of interest in the period.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of net assets acquired.
These principally represent the fair valuation of service concession receivables, based on an analysis of estimated future cash flows, and intangible assets, principally relating to development projects and service income.
Deferred tax is recognised for the temporary difference created by the fair value adjustments.
The Group employed a professional firm of valuers to perform the fair valuation exercise.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 January 2009 the business would have contributed 6 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,492 million and 2 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,150 million, both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements the business would have contributed 6 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,687 million and 2 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,392 million.
Financial statements 161 c Acquisition of T-Power On 16 December 2008, International Power acquired a third of the equity of Tessenderlo Power T-Power, a 420MW CCGT greenfield project in Tessenderlo, Belgium.
The final payments were made for the equity during 2009.
As part of achieving clearance from the European Commission for the Combination, it has been agreed that International Power will divest its interest in T-Power during 2011 refer to note 39. d Disposal of International Power Opatovice On 13 November 2009 the Group completed the sale of International Power Opatovice, and its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans, to the Czecho-Slovak investment firm J&T Group.
A reconciliation of proceeds and profit on disposal to cash inflow is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 m Net consideration 593 Net assets disposed of 259 Reclassification adjustment from translation reserve 93 Profit on disposal 427 Net consideration 593 Costs not paid at the end of the reporting period 12 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 42 Cash inflow to the Group 563 Costs of 7 million were subsequently paid during the year ended 31 December 2010.
162 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 Financial instruments a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2010: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount restated restated m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,350 1,350 1,193 1,193 Available-for-sale: 1 Other investments 84 84 63 63 Loans and receivables: 2 Service concessions receivables 1,331 1,440 1,301 1,308 2 Finance lease receivables 326 397 325 385 2 Other long-term receivables 45 45 103 103 3 Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 622 622 635 635 At fair value through profit or loss: 4 Derivative financial assets not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 193 193 442 442 Total financial assets 3,951 4,131 4,062 4,129 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: 5 Trade payables, other payables and accruals current 733 733 785 785 6 Other payables non-current 2 2 18 18 7 Secured bank loans and other loans 4,455 4,457 4,537 4,537 7 Unsecured bank loans and other loans 9 9 36 36 7 Secured bonds 685 730 711 709 7 Convertible bonds 850 979 845 907 7 Senior notes 208 247 7 Loans from non-controlling interests 123 123 123 123 8 Provisions 43 43 35 35 At fair value through profit or loss: 4 Derivative financial liabilities not designated in a qualifying hedge relationship 566 566 609 609 Designated cash flow hedge relationships: 4 Derivative financial liabilities designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 108 108 122 122 Total financial liabilities 7,782 7,997 7,821 7,881 The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities which have been designated at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition.
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 1 Other investments are discussed in note 31b which follows.
2 The fair value of service concession receivables, finance lease receivables and other long-term receivables have been calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 6% to 9% 2009: 6% to 9% have been applied.
3 Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income have been stated at their carrying amounts.
4 Fair values of derivative financial instruments are discussed in note 31b which follows.
5 Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade payables, other payables and accruals have been stated at their carrying amounts.
6 The fair value of other payables non-current have been calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows.
7 The fair values of all bank loans, bonds, convertible bonds and loans from non-controlling interests have been calculated using market prices where available or the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 2% to 7% 2009: 4% to 8% have been applied.
8 Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the end of the reporting period, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Consequently the carrying amount has been presented as fair value.
Discount rates in the range of 5% to 6% 2009: 5% to 9% have been applied.
Financial statements 163 b Derivatives and fair value hierarchy As explained on pages 18 to 31 of the Business and financial review of the Annual Report, the Groups policy is to hedge various exposures.
Energy price risk: We use commodity contracts to fix the prices we achieve for the electrical output from our power stations and the cost of fuel inputs to our power stations.
In the presentation which follows, we group the financial products and commodity contracts used for this purpose, which are classified as derivatives, under the heading Energy derivatives.
Interest rate risk: Principally we use pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps.
We also use options and forward rate agreements.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk: For structural and transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Other derivatives.
This category also encompasses options over equity.
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses.
The Group already has an equity interest in some of these businesses.
The Group has issued convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc.
The conversion features in these convertible bonds are accounted for as embedded derivatives refer to note 24.
IFRS 7 requires the classification of fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs The following financial instruments are required to be measured at fair value: Energy derivatives Energy derivatives are measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification techniques.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities at future dates.
Generally, the forward price curve is derived from observable prices in an active market over the near term and from valuation techniques beyond the near term.
For example, assumptions which underpin the price curve for power beyond the period where there are observable market prices relate to the price of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Typically, observable market data for forward power prices is available in the US and the UK for two years.
This is also true for Australia but due to uncertainties surrounding the potential impact of possible carbon emissions regulations, the level of liquidity for periods beyond two years are lower.
Non-market observable inputs are typically defined as price forecasts for a particular commodity, which are derived from the Groups in-house modelling.
Non-market observable inputs are not published and often form part of a valuation technique when a forward curve is deemed illiquid.
A number of modelling techniques exist to generate these forecasts, but a standard approach that the Group follows for valuing forward power sales is to look at the economics of a new entrant power plant.
Assumptions are also made in relation to the impacts of environmental legislation.
When a new entrant is believed to be required in a particular market, the long-term power price assumed will cover the new entrants cost and target return.
That is, power prices reflect the new entrant cost level from this particular point.
Energy derivative financial instruments relating to power and fuel are designated either Level 2 or Level 3 depending on the extent to which the lowest level input is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
Energy derivative contracts relating to carbon are designated Level 1 because the value of all such derivatives are valued using a price curve which reflects actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
In calculating their fair values, discount rates in the range of 5% to 9% 2009: 5% to 9% have been applied.
Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to both third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves and spot rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
For interest rate swaps all forward rates are deemed to be from observable markets and are designated Level 2.
In calculating their fair values, discount rates in the range of 1% to 6% 2009: 1% to 6% have been applied.
Other derivatives The fair value of the Groups foreign currency derivative financial instruments is designated Level 1.
As at 31 December 2010, the total notional value of these contracts was 183 million 2009: 102 million and the carrying amount of the derivative financial liability was 6 million 2009: nil.
Equity conversion options have also been measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and through calculations using market rates in effect at the balance sheet date and accordingly are designated Level 2.
Available-for-sale investments These investments principally comprise minority shareholdings held in privately owned unquoted companies where there is no active market available to value them.
Where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, the fair value is recorded at cost.
164 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 Financial instruments continued The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the value is observable: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Derivative financial assets Energy derivatives 2 114 74 190 382 59 441 Interest rate swaps 3 3 Other derivatives 1 1 2 117 74 193 1 382 59 442 Derivative financial liabilities Energy derivatives 95 128 223 19 140 234 393 Interest rate swaps 125 125 137 137 Other derivatives 6 320 326 1 200 201 6 540 128 674 20 477 234 731 Net derivative financial liabilities 4 423 54 481 19 95 175 289 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the years ended 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
The following table provides details of the carrying amounts of the Level 3 net derivative financial liabilities and their movements during the year.
These all pertain to energy derivatives.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 2010 175 288 Movements recognised in the income statement in: revenue 27 28 cost of sales 6 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised in the income statement in: revenue 139 144 cost of sales 2 1 Cash flow 23 19 Exchange differences 20 35 At 31 December 2010 54 175 There were no movements in other comprehensive income during the period relating to Level 3 financial instruments.
There were no transfers in or out of Level 3 during the year ended 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
All gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, included above, relate to energy derivatives held at the end of the reporting period.
Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities and sensitivity analysis Energy derivatives Short-term assumptions are typically based on existing or substantively enacted legislation, whilst the long-term assumptions are typically based on the Groups view as to market developments.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of the forward price curve, which could be significant, for example, increases in the assumed cost of construction or the assumed long-term cost of oil in the determination of new entrant pricing.
The forward price curves are underpinned by many assumptions, and are only estimates of future prices.
Therefore they possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
Most of our energy derivatives settle within the period covered by an active market and hence variations in long-term price assumptions have a limited impact on our derivative valuations.
We have one long-term derivative contract for power, which was acquired with the Loy Yang B plant in Australia.
The contract is open until 2016 and represents a significant proportion of the total Level 3 derivative financial liability carrying amount.
A 10% change in the assumed construction costs, applied in the determination of new entrant pricing, would affect the value of this derivative by 11 million.
Financial statements 165 The carrying amount of derivative financial instruments at the reporting date and whether these derivatives are designated in a formal hedging relationship is analysed as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 105 122 Other derivatives 3 108 122 Not designated in a qualifying hedge relationship Energy derivatives 190 223 441 393 Interest rate swaps 3 20 15 Other derivatives 323 1 201 193 566 442 609 193 674 442 731 Analysed as: Current 190 182 442 429 Non-current 3 492 302 193 674 442 731 On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchases of fuel.
For existing cash flow hedges at that time, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Fair value gains and losses after the date of fide-designation as cash flow hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The following table shows the carrying amounts of assets liabilities, net gains and losses, cash flows and other movements relating to the Groups derivative financial instruments and where the movements in the income statement are recorded.
31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Energy Interest rate Other Total Energy Interest rate Other Total derivatives swaps derivatives derivatives swaps derivatives m m m m m m m m At 1 January 48 137 200 289 272 226 61 559 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised in: revenue 112 112 195 195 cost of sales 89 89 116 116 interest 2 121 123 2 109 107 Other movements in the income statement 17 1 2 20 2 2 Movement in other comprehensive income 5 21 3 23 17 71 88 Cash flow 29 29 34 34 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Disposal of subsidiary 4 4 Reclassifications 30 30 Exchange differences 17 3 20 44 17 27 At 31 December 33 122 326 481 48 137 200 289 Other movements in the income statement comprise mark to market movements on proprietary trading activities, i. e. on non-asset backed trades, and the amortisation of derivatives acquired with a fair value other than zero.
Mark to market movements on asset backed hedges are included within specific IAS 39 mark to market movements refer to note 1f.
166 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 Financial instruments continued c Cash flow hedging reserve movements The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year, including where gains and losses have been recognised in the income statement.
3 1 December 2010 31 December 2009 Energy Interest rate Other Total Energy Interest rate Other Total derivatives swaps derivatives derivatives swaps derivatives m m m m m m m m At 1 January 176 176 12 364 376 Loss gain recognised in the hedging reserve during the year 117 3 120 7 76 69 Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within the income statement during the year due to settlement of contracts, recognised in: Group revenue 29 29 Share of joint ventures and associates 24 24 24 24 Net finance costs 43 43 80 80 Tax 12 12 8 24 32 Non-controlling interests 6 6 2 8 10 Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged item 19 4 23 11 11 Disposals 2 2 3 3 Exchange differences 3 3 26 26 At 31 December 226 1 225 176 176 The cash flow hedging reserve balance and the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur are as follows: 3 1 December 2010 31 December 2009 Energy Interest rate Other Total Energy Interest rate Other Total derivatives swaps derivatives derivatives swaps derivatives m m m m m m m m Cash flows expected in: Less than 12 months 60 2 62 79 79 12 years 54 54 46 46 25 years 86 1 85 46 46 More than 5 years 26 2 24 5 5 Unrecognised loss gain at 31 December 226 1 225 176 176 There were no hedging reserve balances related to energy derivatives at 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009 which would affect cash flows prospectively.
The amounts shown in the preceding table are expected to affect profit or loss in the same period as the cash flows.
d Hedge of a net investment An economic net investment exposure arises from foreign currency movements when the functional currency of a subsidiary differs from the parents.
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency of the net investment and that of its parent will cause the amount of the net investment to vary.
In the absence of hedge accounting, foreign exchange gains and losses on retranslating the net assets of a foreign operation would be taken to reserves, whilst those on the loan would be recognised in the income statement.
This creates a mismatch in foreign currency translation.
When net investment hedging is applied, this mismatch is eliminated.
The Group, as part of its hedging strategy, has therefore chosen to borrow some debt denominated in foreign currencies in order to hedge the net investments in certain foreign operations within its portfolio.
As the hedging instruments are foreign currency borrowings rather than derivatives, no fair values for these instruments are included within the fair value of derivatives disclosed in the statement of financial position.
Gains and losses recognised in the translation reserve for hedges of net investments are shown in notes 24 and 29.
Financial statements 167 e Capital management, risk identification and risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to ensure that all entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns, while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
We regularly review and maintain or adjust the capital structure as appropriate in order to achieve these objectives and this is consistent with the management of capital for previous periods.
The Group has various borrowings and available facilities that contain certain external capital requirements covenants that are considered normal for these types of arrangements.
At corporate level we remain comfortably within all the covenants in relation to our facilities.
A limited number of subsidiary companies have received waivers from the relevant lenders to ensure compliance with specific technical covenants.
The nature of our business model is to regularly invest in growth projects, which are funded via internal cash flow, debt equity raising or disposals and can give rise to changes to the Groups capital structure.
As an example, in November 2010 the disposal of our 33.33% equity interest in SEA Gas resulted in a cash inflow to the Group of 53 million.
Identification of total funding and phasing is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the statement of financial position.
Note 29 provides details on equity, note 24 on loans and bonds and note 31j on borrowing facilities.
Short and medium-term funding requirements are provided by a variety of loan facilities with a range of counterparties and maturities.
Longer term funding or funding for a particularly large transaction may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by raising additional equity.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
It has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent with the Groups strategy and objectives.
Assessments are conducted for all material entities.
The Group owns power plants in various locations around the world including merchant markets in the US, Australia and Europe.
Plant ownership in the merchant markets expose the Group to highly volatile and unpredictable commodity prices including those relating to power and gas and trading and risk management teams exist in each region to manage the exposure by trading a range of products including physical and financial forwards and futures.
A Global Commodities Risk Committee together with the regional risk management teams are responsible for ensuring an adequate risk framework is in place in each region.
Local risk committees operate in each region and they are responsible for ensuring that the risk framework is applied and that they manage their respective positions in compliance with these Board approved limits.
Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the management and development of the Groups business whilst managing its market risks and credit risks.
The Groups treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions.
Group treasury acts within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board.
Project development activities can, on occasion, require credit support in the normal course of business.
This is provided by established funding facilities or via additional bilateral facilities with related project banks.
At the individual business level we finance our projects with non-recourse debt in order to insulate the Group from adverse events at the project level, limiting our collateral exposure to a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
Credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties is managed within clearly defined limits, policies and procedures.
Financial counterparty risk is restricted to arrangements with relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with investment grade ratings.
In addition to credit assessments from rating agencies, the Group utilises local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and independent financial reviews to monitor counterparty credit risk and, if considered necessary, take proactive measures to reduce credit exposure in specific situations.
All credit exposures are monitored daily by local regional management and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
f Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group is exposed to changes in commodity prices in the merchant markets in which it operates, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates.
A significant number of the Groups projects operate without power purchase agreements and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel purchased.
In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK within our Europe region, North America, and Australia, operate on a merchant basis.
i Energy trading and market risk The Group hedges exposures that arise from the ownership and operation of power plants and related sales purchases of electricity and fuel by using derivatives to optimise the return achieved from these assets.
The Group uses commodity derivative financial instruments to convert floating or indexed electricity and fuel prices to fixed prices.
This lessens the Groups vulnerability to movements in prices for the electricity it generates and for the fuel it consumes in its power plants.
Commodity derivative financial instruments also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements while achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
The Groups trading operations are carried out subject to global and local policies and procedures.
A similar structure is in place in each region covering monetary, volumetric and term limits.
Metrics and limits applied to the trading books include Value-at-Risk VaR, stop loss, credit, fuel mismatch, term, volume, approved traders and approved products.
Position reports are produced on a regular basis for both the trading and plant books.
As the Group no longer applies cash flow hedge accounting to its power and fuel derivative contracts, all fair value gains and losses are recorded in the income statement.
The Groups coal purchase contracts are typically treated as own use because they are both entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the Groups electricity production requirements and they are not net settled.
168 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 Financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis As stated earlier, when hedging the output of our generation assets it is our policy to both forward sell the power and forward buy the corresponding fuel contemporaneously in order to lock in the spread.
The spread is the difference between the cost of fuel to generate a unit of electricity and the price at which that unit of electricity is sold.
Spreads are usually expressed in terms of price per MWh.
When gas is used as fuel the difference is called spark spread and when coal is used as the fuel it is called dark spread.
From a management perspective, once the spread relating to the future output from a generation asset is forward contracted, the asset is considered hedged.
To the extent that future output has not been forward contracted in this manner it is considered unhedged.
Management review on an ongoing basis the extent to which generation output is unhedged.
However, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of changes in market prices as a result of entering into financial instruments including derivatives.
Specifically, this sensitivity shows the impact on the Groups results arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts which are entered into to hedge the future output of our generation assets following a change in forward market prices.
The table below shows the impact on equity and profits of a 20% increase in the forward curves for both electricity sales prices and gas purchase prices as if they had occurred on 31 December 2010.
This could be viewed as the opportunity cost of our forward contracting if prices had changed in this manner.
The movement of forward price curves by 20% is believed to be a reasonable approximation of how much markets can move, on average, over any given year.
In some years markets will be less volatile and in other years they may be more volatile.
No sensitivity is applied to coal purchase prices given that such contracts are typically treated as own use.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of these sensitivities: At 31 December 2010, the Group has no energy-related cash flow hedges and therefore all fair value gains and losses would be recorded in the income statement: Commodity contracts that qualify for own use treatment continue to do so, and thus this sensitivity has no impact for these contracts.
These typically include coal purchase contracts.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before non-controlling interests, and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact Impact on Impact profit for on total profit for on total the year ended equity at the year ended equity at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m 20% increase in forward price curves for electricity 208 222 220 234 20% increase in forward price curves for gas 52 51 29 27 Because we hedge the spark spread, i. e. the sales price of electricity and the cost of gas contemporaneously, there is little net impact on the fair value of our derivative contracts to changes in the forward price curves to sell electricity and to purchase gas.
However, for the dark spread, where the cost of coal is contracted in advance but is accounted for as own use, only the electricity sales contracts are exposed to fair value gains and losses arising from changes in the forward curves because these are considered commodity derivative financial instruments.
This mismatch in accounting treatment predominantly gives rise to the significant net impact on profit and equity arising from increases in forward prices for electricity.
Therefore, from an accounting perspective, forward contracting of dark spread at coal plants potentially gives rise to more volatility in earnings.
However, to the extent that fair value gains and losses are recorded in any period ultimately they will reverse by the time of delivery.
It should be noted that changes in the fair value of derivatives, which are entered into for economic hedging purposes refer to basis of preparation in note 1f, are recorded in the middle column in the Groups income statement because the fair value gains and losses have no impact on underlying business performance.
To the extent that our power plants are not already contracted, and spreads increase, it is likely that the future profitability of our coal plants would also improve, because they would contract into the higher dark spreads.
It also means that if plants are unavailable at the point in time at which power should be delivered under the contract, the mark to market position represents the anticipated net cost of purchasing power and selling fuel in the markets to fulfil the contractual obligations and in that instance the unrealised fair value gains and losses would become realised.
Financial statements 169 ii Interest rate risk Variability in interest payments can introduce volatility into project returns and corporate funding costs.
We mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally by using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements.
A limited number of our PPAs also have interest rate pass through mechanisms.
Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require the specific approval of the Board.
The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for up to 75% of its debt portfolio over the medium to long-term.
At individual project company level, it is usually a condition of the non-recourse debt funding that project companies maintain a certain minimum level of fixed rate debt, typically 70%.
This complements the Groups policy.
The overall level of the Groups fixed rate debt is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
A forward rate agreement is a contract in which one party pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating interest rate equal to a reference rate specified at the time of entering into the contract.
The payments are calculated over a notional amount over a certain period with the differential being settled at the termination date.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange pre-determined interest payments, based on a notional principal amount, over an agreed period of time.
At 31 December 2010, including the impact of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps, 4,434 million or 70% 2009: 4,533 million or 73% of total debt had fixed interest rates.
In 2010 the weighted average interest rate of fixed rate debt, taking into account the effect of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps on floating rate debt, was 7% 2009: 7%.
The effect of the Groups interest rate swaps effectively replaced 975 million 2009: 922 million of floating rate Australian dollar borrowings, 806 million 2009: 948 million of floating rate US dollar borrowings, 279 million 2009: 300 million of floating rate sterling borrowings and 523 million 2009: 642 million of floating rate euro borrowings with fixed rate borrowings.
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance for various time periods up to 12 months by reference to official market rates e. g. LIBOR.
When we use project finance in companies with power purchase agreements, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the power purchase agreement.
Sensitivity analysis The Group accounts for certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is considered highly probable and the hedge is assessed as effective.
The Group has issued convertible bonds where an increase in interest rates can affect the value of the conversion option through the interaction of interest rates and bond prices.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a 100 basis point parallel increase in the interest rate yield curve as if it had occurred on 31 December.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: The impact of this sensitivity has only been recorded for changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, which have their fair value gains and losses recorded within the financial statements as the Group does not designate any other financial asset at fair value through profit or loss and these are the only significant financial instruments whose carrying amounts change as a result of changes in interest rates.
All other financial instruments are carried at amortised cost and hence no adjustment has been applied: No impact is recorded from changes in interest rates on employee benefits including pensions, provisions and other financial assets and liabilities: All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting: Fair value gains and losses on interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting as at 31 December are reflected solely in the income statement.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before non-controlling interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact Impact on Impact profit for on total profit for on total the year ended equity at the year ended equity at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Increase in yield curve by 100 basis point parallel shift 6 43 3 54 A second sensitivity analysis calculates the impact on profitability of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on unhedged interest-bearing loans and bonds, i. e. those which are subject to a floating rate of interest, i. e. where there is no receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swap, and on cash balances on which variable rates of interest are earned.
The calculation is performed as follows.
The year end cash balance is deducted from the year end unhedged floating rate loans and bonds.
The net borrowing is multiplied by 1%.
At 31 December 2010 the result of this second sensitivity equated to 3 million before tax 2009: 2 million.
170 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 Financial instruments continued iii Foreign currency risk International Power operates worldwide which exposes it to foreign currency exchange risks.
These relate to translation, transaction and economic risks.
Treasury policy is to hedge a reasonable proportion of the Groups translation exposures by borrowing in the same currency as the underlying investment.
Any residual translation exposure will result in fluctuating sterling profits and asset and liability movements in the statement of financial position which are not related to underlying business performance.
In countries with historically weak currencies we aim to have PPA tariffs denominated in a major international currency.
This protects future returns from large and rapid devaluations.
Group translation exposure is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
For the purposes of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income statement results of the Groups foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned.
The net assets of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Currency translation exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved, other than borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
In order to hedge the net assets of foreign operations, borrowings are generally in the same currency as the underlying investment.
The Group aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way.
During 2010 it was not our policy to hedge currency translation through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Currency transaction exposure arises where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.
The Group utilises these exposures, where possible, to hedge existing transaction exposures on sales and purchases through matching.
In line with Group policy any remaining transaction exposures are hedged as soon as they are committed, by using foreign currency contracts and similar instruments.
Transaction exposure also arises on the remittance of dividends or surplus funds from overseas.
All external currency instruments used to manage transaction exposure are transacted by Group treasury or under the guidance of Group treasury.
Identification of potential transaction exposures is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast by local currency which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
As noted in 31b, to hedge our foreign exchange risks for transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use both non-derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency borrowings, and derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
When we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposures to foreign currency risk, the Group may choose to account for these as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges if they meet the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
Sensitivity analysis The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of currency translation exposures arising from monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currencies of International Power plc or of its subsidiaries.
It shows the impact on the Groups consolidated income statement by changing the year end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in sterling in subsidiaries with non-sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in the year end exchange rate is determined.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies in International Power plc or its subsidiaries with sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in year end exchange rate is determined.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: The results of foreign exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated loans, that are treated as net investment hedges, are not recognised within the impact on the Group income statement, as these foreign exchange gains and losses are recorded within other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve: The exposure on translating the financial statements of subsidiaries into the sterling presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements are not included in the sensitivity analysis.
The results are presented before tax and non-controlling interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact on profit for profit for the year ended the year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m 10% strengthening of sterling 22 59 10% weakening of sterling 26 66 g Credit risk We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event that counterparties to traded contracts and financial instruments do not perform according to the terms of the contract or instrument.
The Groups policy is to manage its credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
Energy trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit exposures in each of our key regions.
Counterparty exposure via customer power purchase agreements agreements to sell power is monitored and managed by the local asset team with assistance from Group treasury where appropriate.
The impact of an individual PPA default is minimised by the geographical diversity and large number of projects in which the Group is involved.
In addition, the non-recourse nature of the funding arrangements, which limits our exposure to our equity commitment in a project, also provides limited credit exposure to the Group.
For the majority of the Groups commodity trading arrangements we have master netting agreements which establish legally enforceable rights of set-off that reduce the credit exposure of the Group in the event of counterparty default.
Where possible, the Group will also enter into ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreements to mitigate its credit exposure to financial instruments.
In the normal course of business there may be occasions when we have a significant concentration of credit risk with one financial counterparty.
This can arise due to the counterpartys role as transaction bank including settlement risk for major transactions, debt service account bank and cash collateralised facility bank or a combination thereof.
Financial statements 171 Group treasury manages the Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated basis for trading and financial counterparties, with the active and close involvement of the global risk manager.
Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with strong investment grade credit ratings.
With regard to financial instruments subject to credit risk, International Power selects counterparties with appropriate ratings for the size, type and duration of the instrument involved.
A small proportion of counterparties trading energy are below investment grade.
For those energy market transactions with counterparties below investment grade, and which are not supported by appropriate collateral, reserves are carried against the trading risk.
Exposures within this band are restricted and closely monitored within narrow limits.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive fair value by counterparty.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be: 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,350 1,193 Available-for-sale financial assets 84 63 2 3 Loans and receivables refer to note 31a 2,324 2,364 4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss derivative financial assets 193 442 Total financial assets 3,951 4,062 1 The majority of cash balances and short-term deposits are held with strong investment grade banks or financial institutions.
2 Service concession receivables and finance lease receivables are with investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
3 A significant proportion of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
4 The Group holds collateral as security for derivative financial assets including 114 million 2009: 186 million of parent company guarantees of appropriate credit worthiness and 8 million 2009: 101 million of cash margining.
The Group also holds additional collateral from counterparties, which only becomes enforceable if existing exposures increase or additional trading with that counterparty is contracted.
This additional undrawn collateral totals 236 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 221 million and is in the form of letters of credit and parent company guarantees.
During 2010 and 2009 we have not needed to take possession of collateral available to us in order to settle any outstanding debts owed to us.
If the Group was to take possession of collateral or to call on other credit enhancements e. g. guarantees, and the assets held as security were not readily convertible into cash, we would regularly update our estimates of value and develop a realistic plan for monetisation.
We would defend rigorously our right to recoup any outstanding amounts from arrangements which ultimately do not fully settle a liability.
A limited number of counterparties have experienced a deterioration in their credit quality.
Where appropriate, we have reduced trading limits or ceased additional trading with such entities.
Financial liquidity in all international markets continues to impact financial volatility and credit quality of counterparties.
We utilise local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and independent financial reviews to identify significant changes to the financial profile of our counterparties.
As at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 there were no significant financial guarantees or third party obligations that increased the credit risk of the Groups financial assets.
h Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
Reporting entities are responsible for managing their own liquidity.
The Groups treasury function is responsible for managing corporate liquidity.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient headroom under both normal and abnormal conditions.
It manages this through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and a financial headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements for a rolling five year period, which is reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
172 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 Financial instruments continued i Contractual cash flows The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts: 31 December 2010 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 24 659 1,975 2,810 2,773 8,217 62 1,825 6,330 Other financial liabilities 754 4 7 38 803 25 778 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 102 24 89 60 275 52 223 Interest rate swaps 48 33 40 10 131 6 125 Other derivatives 5 1 1 3 10 317 1 326 Total financial liabilities 1,568 2,037 2,947 2,884 9,436 255 1,909 7,782 31 December 2009 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 24 858 594 3,230 3,538 8,220 63 1,905 6,252 Other financial liabilities 801 19 1 88 909 71 838 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 176 41 142 90 449 56 393 Interest rate swaps 75 35 29 2 141 4 137 Other derivatives 1 1 200 201 Total financial liabilities 1,911 689 3,402 3,718 9,720 137 2,036 7,821 The net payments relating to interest rate swaps have been calculated based on the yield curves as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
Net payments under interest rate swaps represent the projected net settlement amounts under the swaps.
The variable interest payments, of the loans to which the swaps relate, are included in the maturity of borrowings table in note 24 and included in loans and bonds above.
The above tables do not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted at the end of the financial year.
Refer to note 33 for a breakdown of the Groups commitments and to note 34 for a summary of the Groups bonds and guarantees.
An assessment of the Groups current liquidity position is given in the Business and financial review section of the Annual Report on page 52.
The disclosure of derivatives in the consolidated statement of financial position has been made in line with managements view of the Groups operating cycle.
This has the effect of presenting certain energy derivative cash flows net of discounting, shown above as due after more than one year, as current liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Financial statements 173 j Borrowing facilities The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2010 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met amount to 1,279 million 2009: 1,162 million.
This table excludes loan facilities which have been fully drawn and 281 million of letters of credit in issue at 31 December 2010 2009: 189 million.
Committed facilities 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Currency Expiry Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available m m m m m m Corporate: 1 Corporate revolving credit facility USD October 2012 500 500 500 483 483 483 2 IPM UK Power credit support facility GBP June 2012 300 242 242 300 235 235 3 Corporate letter of credit facilities Various Various 158 153 153 154 139 139 Subsidiaries: Rugeley Power working capital and credit support facility GBP July 2014 195 137 137 195 101 101 Rugeley Power FGD construction facility GBP July 2014 125 132 4 IPA Central revolving and letter of credit facility USD July 2015 70 52 52 67 46 46 IPA Trading, LLC revolving and letter 4 of credit facility USD October 2010 50 45 45 Other subsidiary facilities Various Various 288 195 195 219 113 113 1,636 1,279 1,279 1,600 1,162 1,162 1 There are no drawings on the corporate revolving credit facility.
During February 2011, this facility was cancelled following the confirmed availability of the GDF SUEZ financing facility.
2 The IPM UK Power facilities include a 200 million 2009: 200 million letter of credit and parent company guarantee facility and 100 million 2009: 100 million working capital facility, both from Mitsui & Co, Ltd. 3 Corporate letter of credit facilities include an undrawn US$200 million cash collateral facility and a 30 million bilateral letter of credit facility from which 5 million was issued at 31 December 2010 2009: 15 million.
4 The IPA Central and IPA Trading facilities include a working capital facility with capacity to issue letters of credit.
At 31 December 2010 17 million of letters of credit 2009: 25 million had been drawn from these facilities.
No cash had been drawn at 31 December 2010 2009: 1 million.
Included in cash and cash equivalents are 28 million 2009: 43 million of margin deposits placed with trading counter-parties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities.
At 31 December 2010, letter of credit facilities of 508 million 2009: 255 million were available to support these trading activities and margin deposit requirements and is included in the total undrawn and available facilities above refer to note 23.
Uncommitted facilities Uncommitted facilities include bank borrowing and letter of credit facilities which are normally reaffirmed by banks annually, although theoretically they may be withdrawn at any time.
These facilities include the following: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available m m m m m m Corporate: Corporate borrowing and overdraft facilities 56 56 56 57 57 57 Corporate letter of credit facilities 131 57 57 129 73 73 Subsidiaries: Subsidiary working capital and letter of credit facilities 23 21 21 18 16 15 210 134 134 204 146 145 Uncommitted facilities of 210 million 2009: 204 million include an undrawn and available cash element of 56 million 2009: 57 million.
Also included are 78 million 2009: 88 million of available credit lines for the purposes of issuing letters of credit and guarantees in the normal course of business.
174 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 32 Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, fall due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Not later than one year 13 13 Later than one year and not later than five years 42 43 Later than five years 87 78 Total outstanding commitments 142 134 Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for office properties and wind turbine equipment.
The Group leases office space under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement which expires in 2016.
The lease agreement is renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
The Group also leases land under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The lease terms are between 20 and 70 years, and the majority of the lease agreements are renewable at maturity at market rate.
The Group as lessor International Powers business is the generation of electricity.
The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain operating leases.
The Group has contracted to receive from offtakers the following minimum lease payments: 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Not later than one year 47 77 Later than one year and not later than five years 77 101 Later than five years 43 59 Total minimum lease payments 167 237 Operating lease income earned from these arrangements during the year amounted to 71 million 2009: 78 million.
33 Commitments Fuel purchase and transportation commitments At 31 December 2010 the Group had commitments for the purchase of fuel and transportation services, some of which have minimum purchase undertakings, to which the own use treatment is applied under IAS 39, i. e. accounted for on an accruals basis.
Based on contract provisions, which consist of fixed prices, subject to adjustment clauses in some cases, these minimum commitments are estimated to aggregate to 597 million 2009: 566 million expiring within one year, 1,641 million 2009: 1,817 million expiring between one and five years and 951 million 2009: 416 million expiring after more than five years.
Fuel and transport contracts, which are not treated as own use, are accounted for as derivative contracts.
Capital expenditure related commitments Commitments relating to upgrade services under service concession arrangements, which are contracted but not provided and which will be recognised in cost of sales when the expenditure is incurred, at 31 December 2010 are 437 million 2009: 24 million.
At 31 December 2010 capital commitments contracted but not provided for, which will be recognised as property, plant and equipment when the expenditure is incurred, are 239 million 2009: 173 million.
Pension scheme commitments International Power plc, the employer who sponsors the International Power Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme the Scheme, has agreed to eliminate, through a recovery plan, the funding shortfall of the Scheme.
In addition to the usual contributions to meet accruing benefits, a one-off contribution of 18 million was made during January 2011, and contributions of 6 million per annum will be made between 1 April 2011 and 31 March 2015.
First Hydro Company, as sponsoring employer to the First Hydro Company Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme the FHCG Scheme, together with the other participating employing companies, have agreed to eliminate, through a recovery plan, the funding shortfall of the FHCG Scheme.
In addition to the usual contributions to meet accruing benefits, a one-off contribution of 6 million was made during January 2011, and contributions of 4 million per annum will be made between 1 April 2011 and 31 December 2014.
Financial statements 175 34 Contingent liabilities a Legal proceedings The Company is aware of claims and potential claims, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group, by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
b Taxation The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group has operations, including its joint ventures and associates.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c Collateral, bonds and guarantees The Group has pledged financial assets with carrying amounts totalling 2,178 million as collateral as at 31 December 2010 2009: 1,768 million.
These comprise service concession receivables, finance lease receivables, cash margining in support of commercial arrangements and trade receivables.
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 442 million 2009: 551 million.
Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 348 million 2009: 282 million.
d Joint ventures and associates Bonds and guarantees The Groups joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees.
The Groups share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to 89 million 2009: 82 million.
These obligations are normally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate.
Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group subsidiary are included within bonds and guarantees disclosed in c above.
35 Related party transactions a Compensation of key management personnel The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate.
Further details of Directors remuneration along with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 105 to 110.
There are no personnel, other than the Directors, who as key management have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities, directly or indirectly, of International Power plc.
No member of key management had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Short-term employee benefits 7 7 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 3 3 Total employee benefit costs of key management personnel 11 11 b Operations and maintenance contracts In the normal course of business the Group has contracted to provide power station operation and maintenance services to joint ventures and associates.
During the year the Group derived income of 92 million 2009: 85 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 6 million 2009: 7 million in relation to these contracts.
c Retail supply contracts In the normal course of business the Group has contracted to provide power and gas to joint ventures and associates involved in retail supply.
During the year the Group derived income of 90 million 2009: 82 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 1 million 2009: 1 million in relation to these contracts.
d Transportation contracts In the normal course of business the Group has contracts in place in relation to fuel transportation with one of its jointly controlled entities.
During the year the Group incurred costs of 12 million 2009: 10 million in relation to these contracts.
e Emissions certificates In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted to provide emission certificates to one of its associates.
During the year the Group derived revenue of 13 million 2009: 12 million from these arrangements.
f Development fee income During the year the Group received 11 million in development fees from one of its associates 2009: nil.
176 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 36 Subsidiaries The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries which are all indirectly held by International Power plc, unless otherwise stated.
Name and nature of business Country of Type of share Group incorporation and effective registration shareholding North America International Power Canada Inc power generation Canada Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Armstrong Energy Limited Partnership, LLLP power generation US Partners Capital 100% Calumet Energy Team, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Coleto Creek Power LP power generation US Partners Capital 100% Hays Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Milford Power Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Pleasants Energy, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Troy Energy, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Europe First Hydro Company power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% First Hydro Finance plc financing company England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Indian Queens Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% IPM Energy Trading Limited energy trading England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Rugeley Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% 1 Deeside Power Limited power generation Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% 1 IP Maestrale Investments Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 100% 1 IPM Portfolio Trading Limited energy trading Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% Levanto Structured Energy Lux S.. r. l. investment holding company Luxembourg Ordinary Shares 100% 2 International Power Levanto Holdings BV investment holding company Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100% Turbogs Produtora Enrgetica S. A. power generation Portugal Ordinary Shares 100% Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 64% Ibrica fide Enrgas SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 70% Middle East Al Kamil Power Company SAOG power generation Oman Ordinary Shares 65% Tihama Power Generation Company Limited power generation Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60% Australia Canunda Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% Gippsland Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 70% Hazelwood Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 92% Latrobe Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 70% 3 Perth Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 49% Simply Energy retail supplier Australia Partners Capital 100% Synergen Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% 4 Pelican Point Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% Asia Thai National Power Company Limited power generation Thailand Ordinary Shares 100% Corporate 3 IPM Eagle LLP investment holding company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% Normanglade 4 LLP financing company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% 1 IPM UK Power Holdings Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% 5 IPR Insurance Company Limited insurance captive Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Jersey Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Finance Jersey II Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 5 International Power Finance Jersey III Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% International Power Finance 2010 plc England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below.
The year end for all subsidiaries listed is 31 December.
The Group also has a number of overseas branch offices.
2 International Power consolidates the results, assets and liabilities of Breeze Two Energy as required under IFRS refer to note 38a.
3 Perth Power Partnership is a 70% owned subsidiary of IPM Eagle LLP, a 70% owned subsidiary of International Power plc.
5 Held directly by International Power plc.
Financial statements 177 37 Joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates which are all indirectly held by International Power plc.
Name and nature of business Country of Accounting Type of share Group incorporation and period end effective operation shareholding Joint ventures North America 1 EcoElctrica LP power generation Bermuda 31 December Partners Capital 35% Oyster Creek Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners Capital 50% Europe 2 T-Power N. V. power generation Belgium 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Elecgas S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Asia 3 Uch Power Pvt Limited power generation Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 75% Associates Europe Derwent Cogeneration Limited power generation England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23% Opus Energy Limited retail supplier England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 30% ISAB Energy Srl power generation Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34% Carbopego Abastecimento fide Combustiveis, S. A. fuel supplier Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Pegop Energia Electrica, S. A. power station operations Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Tejo Energia Producao e Distribuicao fide Energia Electrica, S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A. S. power generation Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Middle East Hidd Power Company BSC c power generation and desalination Bahrain 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Q Power QSC power generation and desalination Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Arabian Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Fujairah Asia Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Asia PT Paiton Energy Company power generation Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 41% Kot Addu Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36% 4 The Hub Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17% All joint ventures and associates operate in their country of incorporation except as identified.
2 As part of achieving clearance from the European Commission for the Combination, it has been agreed that International Power will divest its interest in T-Power N. V. during 2011 refer to note 39.
3 International Power accounts for its interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited as a jointly controlled entity, using the equity method, due to the joint control exerted by its shareholders over its activities.
4 International Power continues to apply the equity method of accounting to HUBCO, despite its shareholding being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power to exert significant influence over the entity.
At HUBCO, International Power continues to have significant board representation.
178 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 38 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The Groups accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believe require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows apart from those policies involving estimation which are outlined in b which follows.
a Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Cash flow hedge accounting The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel for its own power plants.
In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and accordingly have to be marked to market.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination.
On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchase of fuel.
For these cash flow hedges, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Fair value gains and losses, after the date of fide-designation as cash flow hedges, are recorded in the income statement.
Revenue recognition When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment known as a capacity payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to sell electrical output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether they constitute a service concession, a form of lease or a service contract.
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance or operating lease.
This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside.
For service concession arrangements which give rise to the recognition of financial assets and for finance leases it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision.
For operating leases it is necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between minimum lease payments and fees for service provision.
Where PPAs extend over more than one accounting period, service income is recognised in each accounting period at the fair value of the Groups performance under the contract in each period.
This treatment requires an assessment of fair value which can be subjective.
Evaluation of levels of control and influence In order to consolidate a subsidiary the parent must control it.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Determining whether control exists, and whether this is accompanied by the objective of obtaining benefits, is a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment.
The assessment process is cognisant of the requirement to account for transactions and events in accordance with their substance and economic reality, and not merely their legal form.
In accordance with the requirements of SIC Interpretation 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, a special purpose entity SPE is consolidated when the substance of the relationship between an entity and the SPE indicates that the SPE is controlled by that entity.
In the context of an SPE, control may exist even in cases where an entity owns little or none of the SPEs equity.
The application of the control concept requires, in each case, judgement in the context of all relevant factors.
SIC 12 provides examples of circumstances that may indicate a relationship in which an entity controls an SPE and consequently should consolidate the SPE.
These include the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of the entity according to its specific business needs so that the entity obtains benefits from the SPEs operation: the entity has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE, in substance, the entity has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the activities of the SPE: or in substance, the entity retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
Breeze Two Energy GmbH & Co. KG Breeze II owns a large proportion of the Levanto wind farm portfolio, primarily the wind farms in Germany.
Breeze II is managed by the General Partner and the appointment and removal, and the supervision of the activities of the General Partners Managing Director, are determined by an Advisory Board.
We treat Breeze II as a subsidiary in the financial statements and consolidate its results, although Breeze II is owned by a Trust.
Our assessment is that Breeze II is a subsidiary, based on circumstances outlined in SIC 12 that indicate a relationship in which the Group controls an SPE and consequently should consolidate the SPE.
These circumstances include the following: we currently own all of the subordinated debt of the business in the form of secured C bonds, we possess the rights to obtain the remaining subordinated cash flows and the equity of the business following the repayment of the more senior secured A and B bonds, we control the Advisory Board which has powers to appoint the Managing Director of the General Partner, and we have a contract directly with Breeze II to advise the Managing Director on its financial and operating policies and to undertake all day-to-day technical, administration and financial activities of the business.
The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements.
At associates and joint ventures we achieve influence or joint control through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as investments available-for-sale.
These investments available-for-sale are carried at market value where market prices are available.
Where observable market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be measured reliably, equity instruments are measured at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entitys operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest but less than 20% in an entity and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we also treat that entity as an associate.
This treatment is applied to our interest in The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17%, but where we also have the right, which we exercise, to appoint a significant proportion of Directors on the Board refer to note 37.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where we recognise our interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity we use the equity method of accounting.
Sometimes we may apply the equity method to a joint venture where we do not possess an equal shareholding to the other venturers, because the venturers are bound by a contractual arrangement and the contractual arrangement establishes joint control.
This treatment is applied to our interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited of which, at 31 December 2010, we owned 75%, as another partner has the right of veto over certain significant decisions refer to note 37.
Financial statements 179 Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: i impairments and impairment reversals ii discontinued operations and restructuring costs iii disposals of interests in businesses All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made of all items in one column on the face of the income statement.
Exceptional items are also set out in note 8.
Taxation The tax expense recorded in the income statement is dependent on the profit for the year and the tax rates in effect at the end of the reporting period, unless new tax rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is also dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective estimated useful lives.
The Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives and residual values of the assets so that depreciation is charged on a systematic basis to the current carrying amount.
It is Group policy to depreciate combined cycle gas turbine plant over 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value.
Coal plants, hydro plants and wind farms are considered on an individual basis.
Our depreciation lives are disclosed in the accounting polices refer to note 1l.
Impairment analysis Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to the carrying amounts of the Groups long-life assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets and the Groups power plant and other property, plant and equipment.
As a minimum, the recoverability of goodwill is tested on an annual basis.
This includes a review of market conditions in both the short-term and long-term.
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the current carrying amount of the asset with the present value of the expected future cash flows of the comparable cash generating unit and its fair value less costs to sell.
The reviews are generally based on pre-tax risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets.
We benchmark the results of this testing against post-tax risk adjusted cash flows, discounted on a post-tax basis.
At the end of the reporting period, consideration is also given as to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods has reversed.
The results of the testing in relation to goodwill are presented in note 12.
The introduction of new environmental legislation has the potential to significantly impact the assumptions used to determine the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the Groups property, plant and equipment for the purpose of value-in-use calculations in impairment testing.
Following a change in the Australian federal government, uncertainties surround the introduction of a carbon pollution reduction scheme.
Therefore, the Group has not incorporated the impact of any potential new carbon legislation in Australia into its assumptions at 31 December 2010.
As set out in notes 8, 12 and 14, in the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group has impaired goodwill relating to the acquisition of Maestrale, and the property, plant and equipment of its Rugeley plant.
In the year ended 31 December 2009 the service concession receivable relating to the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms was also impaired by 70 million.
Fair values of energy derivatives The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the presentation requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts in the statement of financial position at fair value unless they qualify for own use treatment.
Changes in the value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in the income statement unless the required hedge accounting criteria are met which allows the movement in fair value to be recorded within other comprehensive income and accumulated within equity.
The Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price curves.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates.
Generally the forward price curve is derived from observable prices in an active market over the near-term.
Assumptions which underpin the price curve beyond the period where there are observable market prices relate to the prices of commodities such as oil and carbon, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Uncertainties relating to the terms of any new carbon legislation in Australia also have an impact on the determination of the shape of forward price curves for electricity in this region.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of forward price curves.
The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
As disclosed in note 31i 149 million of energy derivative liability cash flows are due to be settled in periods after more than two years after the end of the reporting period.
This principally comprises a Level 3 contract in Australia.
Refer to note 31b for the results of a sensitivity analysis pertaining to a key assumption used during the valuation.
Given that approximately half of energy derivative cash flows are due to settle within two years of the end of the reporting period, a change in discount rates has a small impact on fair values reported.
Fair values on acquisition The Group is required to bring assets and liabilities in to the consolidated statement of financial position on the date of acquisition at their fair values.
Power plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Determination of the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement.
Fair values on our major acquisitions are disclosed in note 30.
180 International Power Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 38 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Recoverability of trade and other receivables Management assesses the recoverability of its trade and other receivables on a periodic basis.
Payment delays by the offtaker the Water and Power Development Authority in Pakistan have occurred at the Groups joint ventures and associates during 2010.
The Group has not made a provision against overdue amounts at 31 December 2010 as management consider that all amounts will be fully recovered from the offtaker.
Provisions Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions.
The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions about such items as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs.
For example, the pensions liability is based on assumptions relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries, expected mortality and future increases in pension payments.
We review these assumptions regularly, and for pensions annually.
However, a change in estimates could have a material impact on the carrying amount of these provisions.
In relation to pensions liabilities, the result of a sensitivity analysis relating to actuarial assumptions is included in note 7.
39 Events after the reporting period Combination with GDF SUEZ Energy International On 10 August 2010, International Power announced that it had signed a memorandum of understanding with GDF SUEZ S. A. GDF SUEZ in relation to a proposed combination of the International Power Group and GDF SUEZ Energy International the Combination.
GDF SUEZ Energy International comprises GDF SUEZs Energy International Business Areas outside Europe and certain assets in the UK and Turkey.
On 13 October 2010, following the completion by GDF SUEZ and members of the GDF SUEZ Group of consultation processes with certain of their employee representative bodies, International Power announced that it had signed a definitive Merger Deed with GDF SUEZ in respect of the Combination.
Under the terms of the Merger Deed, the Combination was to be effected by a contribution of GDF SUEZ Energy International by subsidiaries of GDF SUEZ to International Power in exchange for the issue of 3,554,347,956 Ordinary Shares in International Power the New Ordinary Shares to Electrabel S. A. and other subsidiaries of GDF SUEZ in order to create an enlarged International Power.
In view of the size of GDF SUEZ Energy International when compared with the existing International Power Group, the Combination required, and was conditional upon the admission of the New Ordinary Shares, by the FSA, in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority, to listing on the Official List and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange becoming effective Admission.
Closing was also subject to the satisfaction or, where permitted, waiver of a number of other conditions prior to Admission.
On 3 February 2011 Admission took place, the New Ordinary Shares were issued to Electrabel S. A. and other subsidiaries of GDF SUEZ and consequently completion of the Combination occurred.
This followed the: approval of shareholders in a general meeting of International Power on 16 December 2010: receipt of certain anti-trust and regulatory approvals and confirmations: implementation of the necessary pre-closing restructuring to combine the assets and businesses which comprise GDF SUEZ Energy International in accordance with the terms of the Merger Deed: and satisfaction of other conditions pursuant to the Merger Deed.
The New Ordinary Shares held by GDF SUEZ immediately following Admission represent approximately 70 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the enlarged International Power.
The existing shareholders in International Power prior to Admission own approximately 30 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the enlarged International Power immediately following Admission.
The shareholders in International Power before Admission benefit from their continued shareholding in the enlarged International Power and also received a cash payment of 92 pence per Ordinary Share on 25 February 2011, by way of a special dividend refer to note 11.
The Combination has created an enlarged International Power which substantially enhances the strategic position of both International Power and GDF SUEZ through the creation of a global leader in independent power generation.
Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Combination is treated as a reverse acquisition, being the acquisition of International Power by GDF SUEZ Energy International even though, legally, International Power is the acquirer which has issued New Ordinary Shares to subsidiaries of GDF SUEZ.
Therefore, the consolidated financial statements of the enlarged International Power for the year ending 31 December 2011 will reflect the continuation of the consolidated financial statements of GDF SUEZ Energy International and the acquisition of International Power by applying the IFRS 3 acquisition method of accounting to the International Power Groups identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
International Power will be fully consolidated in the Group financial statements of the enlarged International Power with effect from 3 February 2011.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the fair value of the consideration transferred to acquire the existing Ordinary Shares of International Power in this reverse acquisition is based on the share price of International Powers Ordinary Shares on the date of the Combination, being a more reliable measure than the estimated fair value of GDF SUEZ Energy International contributed by subsidiaries of GDF SUEZ.
The fair value of the consideration was 6,269 million, being 1,537.9 million Ordinary Shares in International Power before the Combination multiplied by the share price of 4.076 on 3 February 2011.
As a consequence of the Combination occurring after the end of the reporting period, and the proximity of the date of the Combination to the date of issue of these consolidated financial statements, it was impracticable to measure each identifiable asset and liability at its acquisition date fair value for inclusion in these consolidated financial statements.
The fair values attributed to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be finalised during the year following acquisition.
A fair value table will be presented in both International Powers interim report for the six months ending 30 June 2011 and its consolidated financial statements to the year ending 31 December 2011.
During the year ended 31 December 2010 International Power incurred acquisition costs of 27 million.
These costs were expensed and presented as an exceptional item within Other operating expenses within the consolidated income statement refer to note 8.
After the end of the reporting period, transaction costs of 69 million have been recognised.
T-Power As part of achieving the clearance from the European Commission for the Combination, it has been agreed that International Power will divest its interest in the 420MW T-Power CCGT project in Belgium during 2011.
