50 International Power Annual Report 2010 Financial position and resources Cash flow A summary of the Groups cash flow and a reconciliation to net debt is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m Profit for the year 197 1,132 Depreciation and amortisation 432 374 i Non-cash items and other movements 579 327 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 154 146 Capital expenditure maintenance 180 148 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 1 Net purchase sale of intangible assets 23 47 Movement in working capital 11 101 Tax and net interest paid 464 535 Free cash flow 708 791 Australian stamp duty exceptional 6 6 Transaction costs in respect of the Combination 13 Capital expenditure growth 155 115 Investments in net of returns from joint ventures, associates and investments 114 18 Acquisitions 3 76 Disposals 46 638 Dividends paid 193 195 Purchase of own shares 10 Proceeds from share issue 13 3 Net payments to non-controlling interests 10 110 Other movements in debt 18 36 Decrease in net debt 245 876 Opening net debt 5,059 6,318 Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries 49 Net debt on disposal of subsidiaries 121 Effect of foreign exchange thereon 166 311 Closing net debt 4,980 5,059 Notes: i Non-cash items and other movements are set out in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
They include income statement charges for interest, tax, specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and the share of profit of joint ventures and associates.
The comparatives have been restated to reflect the change of accounting policy relating to the adoption of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, following its endorsement by the European Union EU refer to note 1d of the consolidated financial statements.
Free cash flow for the year at 708 million was lower than 2009 791 million.
The decrease is primarily due to a 90 million yearon-year unfavourable movement in working capital as 2009 benefited from some one-off reductions that were not repeated in 2010.
In addition, 2010 was impacted by the phasing of purchases of carbon certificates to cover emissions in EU emisions trading scheme EUETS phase two.
Interest and tax payments were 71 million lower principally as a result of the pay down of US$769 million of debt secured on five US merchant plants located in Texas and New England, in December 2009.
Growth capex was 40 million higher in 2010, principally due to the build out of the Canadian wind portfolio and the refitting of the Maestrale wind farms in Italy.
Investments in joint ventures, associates and investments has increased by 96 million over 2010 due to the funding of the Fujairah F2 and Paiton 3 projects.
Disposals of 46 million in 2010 primarily relate to the disposal of the equity interest in the SEA Gas pipeline.
Business overview 51 Summary statement of financial position The Groups net assets are analysed as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 restated m m Goodwill and intangibles 855 1,053 Property, plant and equipment 7,212 6,959 Investments 1,774 1,627 Long-term receivables and others 1,678 1,749 Non-current assets 11,519 11,388 Inventories 238 251 Other current asset receivables and derivatives 1,039 1,299 Cash and cash equivalents 1,350 1,193 Current assets 2,627 2,743 Current liabilities 1,660 2,426 Non-current liabilities 7,511 6,944 Net assets 4,975 4,761 Net debt 4,980 5,059 Gearing 100% 106% Debt capitalisation 50% 52% Net debt joint ventures and associates 1,881 1,684 The decrease in goodwill and intangible assets since 31 December 2009 mostly reflects the impairment of goodwill relating to the Maestrale wind farms.
The increase in property, plant and equipment primarily arises on retranslation due to the weakening of sterling against the Australian dollar offset by the impairment of the Rugeley plant.
Net debt has fallen from 5,059 million to 4,980 million following strong cash generation by the business offset by weakening of sterling against the Australian dollar.
International Power has a robust financial position together with the strong committed financial support of GDF SUEZ, which will provide a package of loans and facilities in excess of 3.1 billion on investment grade interest rates, to the enlarged International Power.
The Combination significantly strengthens International Powers capital structure and credit ratios.
This strengthened credit profile of the combined business has enabled International Power to obtain an investment grade credit rating.
As a result, the Group benefits from significantly improved access to capital, at an attractive cost.
52 International Power Annual Report 2010 Financial position and resources Net debt and capital structure Group net debt As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,350 1,193 Convertible bonds 850 845 Other bonds 685 711 Senior notes 208 Bank loans and other loans 4,587 4,696 Net debt 4,980 5,059 The above net debt of 4,980 million excludes the Groups share of joint ventures and associates net debt of 1,881 million 2009: 1,684 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power or any other Group company.
During 2010, the Group had sufficient Secured non-recourse finance Aggregated debt financing with carrying credit facilities in place to fund and amounts of 337 million are due for The Groups financial strategy during the adequately support its existing operations year was to finance its assets by means of repayment in 2011, 1,686 million in 2012 and to finance the purchase of new assets.
and 982 million in 2013, with the majority limited or non-recourse project financings These facilities comprised a US$780 million at the project company or intermediate of the remaining debt balance due after revolving credit facility expiring in October 2016.
Following the Combination Tranche B holding company level, wherever that 2012, three convertible bonds and a high was practical.
As part of this strategy, and C of the GDF SUEZ financing package yield bond.
The first convertible bond of page 22 will be utilised to refinance Hazelwood refinanced two existing US$228 million matures in August 2023 loans into a single new loan totalling certain of these debt balances.
but with bond holders having the right to A$742 million with a new maturity of June put the bond back to the Group in August 2012 and TNP2 raised THB4,100 million Short-term deposits 2013 and 2018.
The second convertible Surplus funds are placed for short periods predominantly to finance a new 110MW bond of E230 million matures in July 2013. gas-fired cogeneration project in Thailand.
in investments that carry low credit risk The third convertible bond of E700 million and are readily realisable in major In March 2010 US$729 million of JBIC has a maturity date of June 2015.
The overseas investment loans and currencies.
Following the Combination bondholders have the right to convert funds will also be placed with GDF SUEZ US$486 million of commercial bank loans all bonds into shares at any time.
were raised in support of the Paiton 3 on short-term deposit.
A E250 million senior unsecured note project in Indonesia.
During October 2010 due in 2017 was issued during May 2010 International Power Canada secured Interest rate policy to further diversify funding sources.
In The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for C$117 million of non-recourse finance addition, the Group had committed and to develop the Pointe-Aux-Roches wind a significant portion of the debt 70% as at uncommitted bilateral credit lines from 31 December 2010 using forward rate or project.
Gross disposal proceeds of various banks at its disposal at the A$93 million were realised in November interest rate swap agreements.
Further information on interest cost is passed through to the following the agreed sale of our equity liquidity at 31 December 2010 is included interest in the SEA Gas pipeline to project offtaker under the power purchase in the consolidated financial statements.
agreement PPA and is therefore not an partners.
Adjusting for this Consolidated financial statements item would increase fixed rate debt to Corporate and Group debt pages 114 to 180 At 31 December 2010 we had aggregated 74%.
The Group has limited exposure to changes in interest rates as variable rate debt financing of 6,330 million denominated principally in US dollars, debt is similar in size to variable rate cash and cash equivalents.
The weighted Australian dollars, sterling, euro, Canadian dollars and Thai baht.
Of this amount only average interest rate of aggregated debt financing was 6% in 2010.
Where project 1,058 million had recourse at corporate level and 5,140 million was secured by finance is utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual fixed or floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
terms of the customer offtake agreement.
Business overview 53 b T he grantor controls through Service Concession Critical accounting policies Arrangements ownership, beneficial entitlement or and estimates otherwise any significant residual In 2010 the Group adopted IFRIC We prepare our consolidated financial Interpretation 12 Service Concession interest in the infrastructure at the statements in compliance with end of the term of the arrangement.
Arrangements IFRIC 12, following its International Financial Reporting endorsement by the EU.
An arrangement Infrastructure used in a public-to-private Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
service concession arrangement for within the scope of IFRIC 12 is one which As such, we are required to make certain involves a private sector entity known its entire useful life a whole of life asset estimates, judgements and assumptions is within the scope of IFRIC 12 if the as an operator constructing that we believe are reasonable based upon infrastructure used to provide a public conditions in a are met.
These estimates service, or upgrading it for example, In assessing whether an arrangement and assumptions affect the reported by increasing its capacity and operating is a service concession arrangement, amounts of assets and liabilities at the and maintaining that infrastructure for judgement is required as to the extent date of the financial statements, the a specified period of time.
The operator to which the grantor controls those items reported amounts of income and expenses is paid for its services over the period set out in a and b above.
during the periods presented and the of the arrangement.
The arrangement related disclosure of contingent assets The principal criteria International Power is governed by a contract that sets out and liabilities.
performance standards, mechanisms considers in determining whether longterm PPAs fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 for adjusting prices, and arrangements for On an on-going basis, we evaluate our arbitrating disputes.
Such an arrangement are the extent to which: estimates using previous experience, is often described as a  with experts and other T he offtaker is a public sector entity.
transfer, a  methods considered reasonable in the T he offtaker uses the electrical capacity or a public-to-private service concession particular circumstances to ensure full arrangement.
and electrical output produced by the compliance with IFRS and best practice.
infrastructure, to meet its public service Actual results may differ significantly from International Power has entered into a commitments.
our estimates, the effect of which is number of such arrangements across the recognised in the period in which the facts Group relating to the provision of electrical T here is a transfer of ownership of the that give rise to the revision become known.
power plant to the offtaker at the end capacity and output from thermal power plants and wind farms located across of the arrangement: or the PPA is for Our Group accounting policies are detailed substantially all of the economic life mainland Europe, North America, the in note 1 to the consolidated financial Middle East and Asia.
This infrastructure of the infrastructure.
is contracted under long-term PPAs or Because long-term PPAs remunerate the Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements fixed price wind tariffs.
operator principally for availability of plant pages 119 to 126 capacity, rather than electrical output, IFRIC 12 applies to public-to-private service concession arrangements if: demand risk and price risk relating to The table on page 57 identifies some of the electrical output are borne by the offtaker.
areas where significant judgements are a The grantor i. e. the public sector In these arrangements, the operator required, normally due to the uncertainties entity the offtaker controls or recognises a financial asset as it has an involved in the application of particular regulates what services the operator unconditional contractual right to receive accounting policies.
must provide with the infrastructure, cash.
All of the Groups service concession to whom it must provide them, and arrangements result in the recognition of at what price.
54 International Power Annual Report 2010 Financial position and resources Left Coleto Creek Texas Right Uch Pakistan Revenue recognition accounting for interest rate swaps and leases, it is necessary to calculate the other financial instruments.
For these proportion of total capacity payments Our income is derived principally from owning and operating power plants financial instruments to continue to achieve which should be treated as finance cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary income, capital repayment and as a worldwide.
In merchant markets, the Group enters into various types of hedging for the Group to determine, on an on-going fee for service provision.
For operating basis, whether a forecast transaction is leases it is necessary to calculate the or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities related to this both highly probable and whether the split between minimum lease payments hedge is effective.
and fees for service provision.
activity: principally the sale of electricity and the purchase of fuel for our own power When our power plants sell their output Where PPAs extend over more than one plants.
These contracts typically fall within under long-term PPAs it is usual for the accounting period, service income is the definition of derivative financial power plant owning company to receive recognised in each accounting period at instruments and are therefore required payment known as a capacity payment the fair value of the Groups performance to be fair valued.
Accounting for these for the provision of electrical capacity under the contract in each period.
This contracts as cash flow hedges allows, whether or not the offtaker requests treatment requires an assessment of fair to the extent the hedge is effective, the electrical output.
In these situations, value which can be subjective.
changes in value of the derivatives to be where there is a long-term contract deferred in a hedging reserve within equity.
The Group receives payments from to sell electrical output and electrical contractors in respect of late capacity, it is necessary for the Group On 1 January 2008, the Group revoked the commissioning and under performance designation of its cash flow hedges relating to evaluate the contractual arrangements of new power plants.
Receipts which and determine whether they constitute to sales of power and purchases of fuel relate to compensation for lost revenue are i. e. non-financial items.
For these cash a service concession arrangement, treated as income when the compensation a form of lease, or a service contract.
flow hedges, the cumulative gain or loss is due and payable by the contractor.
on the hedging instrument from the period Where the arrangements are determined Those receipts that relate to compensation when the hedge was effective shall remain to be or to contain a form of lease, an for plants not achieving long-term separately recognised in equity until the evaluation is then required of where the performance levels specified in the original forecast transaction occurs or is no longer substantial risks and rewards of ownership contracts are recorded as a reduction in expected to occur.
Fair value gains and reside, in order to determine the form of the cost of the assets.
losses, after the date of dedesignation lease it represents.
For service concession as cash flow hedges, are recorded in arrangements which give rise to the the consolidated income statement.
The recognition of financial assets, and those Group continues to apply cash flow hedge arrangements determined to be finance Business overview 55 As noted earlier in this Annual Report, Fair values of energy derivatives Recoverable amount The Group has prepared its financial of long-life assets environmental legislation is one of the key drivers of the long-term development of statements in accordance with the Depreciation of a plant is charged so as presentation requirements of IAS 32 to write down the value of the asset to its the electricity industry.
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are expected Financial Instruments: Presentation, residual value over its estimated useful life: the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 to impose increasing constraints on our A combined cycle gas turbine CCGT ability to use fossil fuels to generate power.
Financial Instruments: Disclosures and plant is depreciated over 30 years the accounting requirements of IAS 39 The impact of legislative development to a 10% residual value, unless the on our assets will remain uncertain whilst Financial Instruments: Recognition and circumstances of the project or life of Measurement.
In accordance with IAS 39, the national and international response specific components indicate a shorter to climate change continues to evolve.
the Group recognises its derivative period or a lower residual value.
contracts in the financial statements Environmental regulation pages 28 to 30 at fair value unless they qualify for own Other plant, including wind farms, coal use treatment.
Changes in the value of and hydro plants are considered on Fair values on acquisition derivative contracts in each period are an individual basis.
recognised in earnings unless strict hedge The Group is required to bring assets Our asset lives are set out in note 1l acquired and liabilities assumed, in accounting criteria are met which allow the to the consolidated financial statements.
movement in fair value to be recognised business combinations, into the Groups financial statements at the date of within other comprehensive income and Note 1l to the consolidated financial statements accumulated within a hedging reserve, pages 122 and 123 acquisition at their fair value.
Power plant and equipment usually have long useful which is a component of equity.
The Directors regularly consider whether lives, and are often bought with associated The Group estimates the fair value of its long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Hence there has been any change to the energy derivative contracts by reference estimated useful lives of the Groups determination of the fair values of these to forward price curves.
A forward price long-life assets and contracts can require long-life assets.
curve represents the Groups view as a significant amount of judgement.
to the prices at which customers would The Directors also consider whether there currently contract for delivery or settlement are any indications of impairment to Consolidation policy amount of commodities, such as power or gas, at carrying values of the Groups long-life of control or influence future dates.
Generally, the forward price assets, including goodwill, intangible In order to consolidate a subsidiary the curve is derived from observable prices assets and property, plant and equipment.
Control is the power in an active market over the near-term, These indicators include both the impact to govern the financial and operating and from valuation techniques beyond the of new regulation or legislation and the policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits near-term.
Assumptions which underpin impact of any adverse market conditions.
Determining whether the price curve beyond the period where control exists, and whether this is Impairment reviews require a comparison there are observable market prices relate of the current carrying amount of the asset accompanied by the objective of obtaining to the prices of commodities such as oil, benefits, is a mix of contractually defined with the present value of its expected the cost of constructing and financing future cash flows and its fair value less and subjective factors that can be critical the building of new power plants, and the to the appropriate accounting treatment.
The calculations are generally prices at which it would be economic for based on risk-adjusted discounted cash The assessment process is cognisant companies to enter the market and build of the requirement to account for flow projections that require estimates of additional capacity new-entrant pricing.
discount rates and future market prices transactions and events in accordance Assumptions are also made in relation to with their substance and economic reality, over the remaining lives of the assets.
the impacts of environmental legislation.
Modelling assumptions, including the price and not merely their legal form.
Short-term assumptions are typically of power and the output of the plants, take In accordance with the requirements based on existing or substantively enacted into account all existing legislation and of IFRS, a special purpose entity SPE legislation, whilst the long-term assumptions managements best estimates of the is consolidated when the substance of the are typically based on the Groups view as impacts of substantively enacted and relationship between an entity and the SPE to market developments.
The assumptions potential new legislation.
indicates that the SPE is controlled by that used during the application of valuation entity.
In the context of an SPE, control techniques will directly impact the shape may exist even in cases where an entity of the forward price curve.
The forward owns little or none of the SPEs equity.
The price curves are underpinned by many application of the control concept requires, assumptions, and are only estimates of in each case, judgement in the context of future prices.
Therefore they possess all relevant factors.
56 International Power Annual Report 2010 Financial position and resources The determination of the level of influence Exceptional items and specific Taxation the Group has over a business is often a IAS 39 mark to market The tax expense recorded in the mix of contractually defined and subjective movements consolidated income statement is factors that can be critical to the appropriate As discussed on pages 38, 120 and 121, dependent on the profit for the year and accounting treatment of entities in the in order to allow a full understanding of the tax rates at the reporting date, either consolidated financial statements.
the financial information presented within in place or which have been substantively At entities which are not subsidiaries, the consolidated financial statements, enacted.
The level of current and deferred we achieve influence through board and specifically the Groups underlying tax recognised is also dependent on representation and by obtaining rights of business performance, the Group subjective judgements as to the outcome veto over significant actions.
We generally presents its consolidated income of decisions to be made by the tax treat investments where the Group holds statement such that it separately identifies authorities in the various tax jurisdictions less than 20% of the equity as investments the effect of exceptional items and specific in which International Power operates.
These investments are IAS 39 mark to market movements.
It is necessary to consider which deferred carried at market value where quoted The Directors consider that items of tax assets should be recognised based on market prices in an active market are income or expense, which are material by an assessment of the extent to which they available.
Where they are not available, virtue of their nature and amount, should are regarded as recoverable.
and where fair value cannot be reliably be disclosed separately if the financial measured, equity instruments are statements are to fairly present the Recoverability of trade measured at cost.
financial position and financial and other receivables Where the Group owns between 20% performance of the Group.
The Directors The Group assesses the recoverability and 50% of the equity of an entity, and label these items collectively as of its trade and other receivables on a is in a position to exercise significant exceptional items.
Payment delays by influence over the entitys operating and long-term PPA offtakers at some of the Determining which transactions are to be financial policies, we treat the entity as an Groups joint ventures and associates considered exceptional in nature is often a associate.
Equally, where the Group holds have occurred during 2010.
However, circumstances a substantial interest but less than 20% has not made a provision against overdue that the Directors believe would give rise in an entity and has the power to exert amounts at 31 December 2010 as it to exceptional items for separate disclosure significant influence over its operations, considers that all amounts will be fully would include: we also treat that entity as an associate.
disposals of interests in businesses A joint venture is a contractual Provisions arrangement whereby two or more discontinued operations Within the Group there are a number of parties undertake an economic activity impairments and impairment reversals long-term provisions.
The carrying amount that is subject to joint control.
Where we of these provisions is estimated, based recognise our interest in an investee as restructuring costs on assumptions about items such as the a jointly-controlled entity, we apply the changes in scope of consolidation risk adjustment to cash flows or discount equity method of accounting.
Sometimes rates used, future changes in prices and we may apply the equity method to a joint All exceptional items are included on estimates of costs.
For example, the venture where we do not possess an the appropriate income statement line to pensions liability is based on assumptions equal shareholding to the other venturers, which they relate.
In addition, for clarity, relating to discount rates, future changes because the venturers are bound by separate disclosure is made of all such in salaries, expected mortality and future a contractual arrangement and the items in one column on the face of the increases in pension payments.
We contractual arrangement establishes consolidated income statement.
regularly review the assumptions joint control.
Those items that the Group separately underlying provision calculations, and presents as specific IAS 39 mark to market pensions assumptions are reviewed on movements in the consolidated income an annual basis.
However, a change in statement principally relate to derivative estimates could have a material impact on contracts into which the Group has the carrying amount of these provisions.
entered in order to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures.
Business overview 57 Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from the determination of the following: Revenue recognition correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual arrangements in place and the allocation of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant the allocation of capacity payments to service income, interest income and capital repayment the fair value of performance under the contract appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors Fair values of energy derivatives forward price curve for commodities where there is no observable market Recoverable amount of property, plant indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using projected cash flows, together and equipment with risk adjusted discount rates, or other more appropriate methods of valuation Fair values on acquisition useful economic life and residual value of certain assets fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and hence how much of the purchase price is attributed to goodwill arising on acquisition of a business Consolidation policy, extent of control or influence the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities and the requirement to account for transactions in accordance with their substance and economic reality, and not merely their legal form the extent to which joint control is exercisable over an entity extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the operations, strategic direction and financial policies of entities in which it holds an equity stake Items of income and expense which require items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount which require separate disclosure exceptional items separate disclosure.
The Directors consider these items most appropriately disclosed as exceptional Taxation appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated decisions of the tax authorities assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings Recoverability of trade and other receivables assessment of intention and ability of customers to pay amounts billed Provisions appropriate assumptions to calculate reliable estimates of the amount to be provided
