194 International Power Annual Report 2010 Glossary Accident frequency rate AFR Combined cycle plant Equator Principles The number of lost time accidents LTAs divided Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT the A benchmark for lenders regarding the by the number of hours worked, multiplied by combination of a gas turbine GT and steam management of social and environmental issues 100,000 for 2010. turbine ST in a configuration that enables in project financing.
electricity to be generated directly from a generator Annual General Meeting AGM ERCOT driven by the GT and, by using exhaust gases from Annual General Meeting of shareholders Electric Reliability Council of Texas responsible the GT to produce steam, a ST coupled to the same of the Company.
for managing the Texas generating and generator or another generator.
Asset-backed trading the Company The buying and selling of the electricity generated ETS International Power plc.
and fuel used by our power stations.
Emissions trading scheme programme for the CR trading of emissions permits mainly relating to CO 2 Biomass Corporate responsibility.
Non-fossil organic matter used as a renewable energy source in commercial electricity generation Dark spread EUETS or heat production.
The difference between the cost of coal to generate European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
Bond Feed-in-tariff Financial instrument that obligates the issuing Debt capitalisation Guaranteed tariff for energy produced, often company the borrower to make specified Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and provided by governments to support renewable payments to the holder the lender.
Call option Demerger FGD An option to buy a security at a pre-determined The process whereby National Power split its UK Flue gas desulphurisation a process which price.
and international operations International Power removes SOx from the flue gas emissions of a coal into separate businesses.
Capacity installed Generator capacity measured in megawatts Desalination plant Forced outage rate MW, measured at the power station boundary Plant which produces drinking water from sea A measure giving the proportion of electrical after the deduction of works power.
energy that was actually unavailable for generation is simply the installed capacity in MW multiplied during the period due to unplanned outages, Due diligence by International Powers ownership percentage.
expressed as a percentage of the maximum A process undertaken before the acquisition of potential electrical energy generation, after taking CEO a business to ensure all significant risks, rewards account of planned outages.
and issues are identified and considered before any offer is made to the vendor or an acquisition Fossil fuel CFO takes place.
Fossil fuels are formed from the fossilised remains Chief Financial Officer.
of dead plants and animals by exposure to heat Emission certificates COO and pressure in the Earths crust over hundreds Under various environmental schemes, emission Chief Operating Officer.
They are found within the top certificates are required to cover the amount of layer of the earths crust and range from very CO relevant emissions made by a power station.
Cap 2 volatile materials with low carbon-to-hydrogen Carbon dioxide.
and trade schemes are a common type of scheme.
ratios like methane, to those with high carbon-toUnder a cap and trade scheme, operators are Cogeneration hydrogen ratios like liquid petroleum.
They also required to purchase sufficient emission The simultaneous generation of electricity and heat include non-volatile materials composed of almost certificates to cover their actual emissions, and in the form of steam, typically where the need for pure carbon, like anthracite coal.
Fossil fuels are the operator may or may not be granted an initial both arises for industrial or commercial purposes non-renewable resources because they take volume of certificates.
Examples of such schemes and where the steam is generated by utilising the millions of years to form.
include the European Union Emissions Trading waste heat from electricity generation.
Scheme EUETS which covers emissions of CO, Functional currency 2 the Combination based on a cap and trade system.
Other examples The currency of the primary economic environment On 3 February 2011 the Combination of include the Clean Air Act in the US which covers in which the entity operates.
International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy emissions of oxides of nitrogen NOx and oxides of Gearing International was completed.
GDF SUEZ Energy sulphur SOx.
Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
International was transferred to International Power EPC contract in exchange for shares in the enlarged International GDF SUEZ Energy International Engineering, procurement and construction Power.
As a result GDF SUEZ now holds GDF SUEZs Energy International Business Areas contract, used principally for the building of power approximately 70% of the share capital of outside Europe and certain assets in the UK and stations by a turnkey contractor.
Earnings per share EPS Combined Code Calculated by dividing the profit after interest, The Code which sets out the expected corporate tax and non-controlling interests by the weighted governance standards for companies listed on the average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
London Stock Exchange, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
s su uP PP Pl le em me en nt ta aR Ry y i in nF Fo oR Rm ma at ti io on n 19 195 5 Greenfield land Kilowatt-hour kWh MIGD A piece of undeveloped land, either currently A watt hour is the amount of energy used by Millions of imperial gallons per day.
used for agriculture or just left to nature.
a one-watt load drawing power for one hour.
MISO A kilowatt-hour kWh is 1,000 times larger than a the Group Midwest Independent System Operator.
watt-hour and is a useful size for measuring the International Power and its subsidiary energy use of households and small businesses Mitsui undertakings, and except where used in the and also for the production of energy by small Mitsui & Co. of Japan.
Directors report its joint ventures and associates power plants.
A typical household uses several depending on the context.
MW hundred kilowatt-hours per month.
Megawatt: one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts GSA Kyoto Protocol or one million watts.
A protocol to the International Framework Megawatt-hour MWh GT Convention on Climate Change with the objective A watt hour is the amount of energy used by Gas turbine.
of reducing greenhouse gases in an effort to a one-watt load drawing power for one hour.
GW A megawatt-hour MWh is 1,000 times larger Gigawatt, one thousand million watts.
LCPD than the kilowatt-hour and is used for measuring Large Combustion Plant Directive.
the energy output of large power plants.
Gigawatt-hour GWh A watt hour is the amount of energy used by Liquidated damages LDs MWth a one-watt load drawing power for one hour.
Being a reasonable pre-estimate of loss specified One megawatt of thermal power, which A gigawatt-hour GWh is 1,000,000 times larger in a contract, payable if one party breaches one is a measurement of heat.
than the kilowatt-hour and is used for measuring part of a contract.
Non-recourse debt the energy output of large power plants.
LNG Debt secured on an asset, and where the lender Hedge contracts Liquefied natural gas.
Natural gas which is has no recourse to the shareholder.
A contract that gives protection against risks condensed into liquid by cooling it to approximately NOx of future price movements.
minus 162 degrees Celsius, mainly to facilitate its Oxides of nitrogen.
HS&E O&E Health, safety and environment.
LNG terminal Operations and engineering.
Purpose-built port facilities that are used to HUBCO receive, unload, store, transport, gasify, liquefy or O&M Hub Power Company.
Operations and maintenance, usually used in the IASB context of operating and maintaining a power station.
Load factor International Accounting Standards Board.
The proportion of electricity actually generated, OCGT ICOM compared with the maximum possible generation Open cycle gas turbine turbines, typically fuelled Investment Committee.
by gas or diesel oil, are used to drive the generators to produce electricity, with no use of the waste IFRS Lost time accident LTA heat for subsequent power generation.
A person being absent from work for one or more working days or shifts excluding the day or shift Offtake agreement IPA Central when the accident occurred due to injury or ill Power purchase agreement between a company Four modern peaking generation facilities located health sustained at work.
owning a power station and its customer the in PJM and MISO, wholly owned by International offtaker whereby the customer takes the Power.
Letter of Credit LoC electricity generated by a power station.
A credit facility provided by a bank.
IPP OHSAS 18001 Independent power producer.
Mark to market Occupational Health and Safety Assessment The act of attributing a fair or market value to a ISO 14001 Series 18001.
A management system financial instrument rather than its historical cost.
The international standard of environment specification, developed by British Standards Marking to market is required under accounting management systems.
Institute which is now an accepted international rules for certain derivatives and financial standard, for health and safety which is compatible ISO:NE instruments.
with ISO 9001:1994 Quality and ISO 14001:1996 New England power pool.
KAPCO A merchant market is a deregulated market.
It Operational control Kot Addu Power Company.
is a market in which electricity is bought and sold Operational control includes all subsidiaries, joint competitively by multiple market participants.
KPI ventures and associates with over 50% shareholding, Key performance indicator.
Merchant plant and those assets where International Power always Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets appoints the Station Manager, or Executive kW selling power into the traded market without Managing Director, and therefore can exert Kilowatt 1,000 watts.
long-term power purchase agreements PPAs.
significant influence over operations at the entity.
196 International Power Annual Report 2010 Glossary OSA RPI Oil supply agreement.
Outage SCR When a generating unit is removed from service Selective catalytic reduction equipment to reduce to perform maintenance work.
This can either the content of oxides of nitrogen in flue gases.
SO 2 Peak load Sulphur dioxide.
The maximum demand for electricity during a SOx specified high demand period.
This may require Oxides of sulphur.
use of plant for example pumped storage that is kept in reserve for peak periods.
Spark spread The difference between the cost of gas to generate Peaking plant electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
Plant that runs only in times of short supply normally during peak demand, when prices Spot price are high.
Market price at a particular point in time.
PJM Spread Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland power The difference between the fuel costs to generate pool.
Power purchase agreement PPA Technical availability See also Offtake agreement.
A PPA is generally A measure giving the proportion of electrical a long-term contract between an electricity energy that was actually available to be generated generator and a purchaser of energy or capacity during the period, after taking account of both power or ancillary services.
planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the maximum potential electrical Proprietary trading energy generation.
The trading of commodities for the purposes of making a profit, when the commodity, is not Tolling agreement generated by our own power stations or purchased A form of long-term electricity contract where for use by our own power stations, also known the buyer of electricity also supplies the fuel.
t h Pumped storage Tonnes per hour.
A method of energy generation that involves TSR moving water between reservoirs at different Total shareholder return.
When electricity prices are low, typically overnight, electricity from the grid system is used Turnkey contract to pump water into a raised reservoir and then at A contract where one party takes full responsibility times of peak demand, when electricity prices are for the construction and commissioning of a plant, higher, the water is released back into the lower delivering the plant in full working order to the owner.
Turnbull Guidance Put option The Turnbull Guidance expands upon the An option to sell a security back to the issuer Combined Code requirements for the Directors at a pre-determined price.
review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
PWPA Power and water purchase agreement.
Recourse debt Debt where the lender has recourse to parties US Sarbanes-Oxley Act other than the borrower, usually a parent company The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in or shareholder.
reaction to the highly publicised bankruptcies of Enron and WorldCom and is concerned with Retail strictly enforcing corporate governance and The sale of power and or gas to end users.
Reserve margin Watt The amount of available plant reserve capacity Unit of power, which is the rate at which energy above the systems peak electricity requirements.
is delivered i. e. work is done at a rate of one watt RGGI when one ampere flows through a potential Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a US difference of one volt.
regulation towards carbon emission reduction in ten north eastern states.
