Notes to the financial statements 1 General Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2010 consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Groups activities are the testing, inspection and certification of products, commodities and services against a wide range of safety, regulatory, quality and performance standards.
Note 3 provides a segmental analysis of the Groups performance.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 118 to 121.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial assets are stated at fair value.
Functional and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
All information presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
Adjusted results In order to present the performance of the Group in a clear, consistent and comparable format, certain items are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
Separately disclosed items are items which by their nature or size, in the opinion of the Directors, should be excluded from the adjusted result to provide readers with a clear and consistent view of the business performance of the Group and its operating divisions.
When applicable, these items include amortisation of intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the profit or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost of any fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims and settlements, significant recycling of amounts from equity to the income statement and unrealised gains losses on financial assets liabilities.
Details of the separately disclosed items are given in note 4 of the notes to the financial statements.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements, except as explained below which addresses changes in accounting policies.
The Group has adopted in the year the following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations: i IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 ii IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements amended 2008 iii Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving disclosures about financial instruments iv Amendments to IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives v Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible hedged items vi Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions vii Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2009 viii Amendments to IAS 38 Intangible assets consequential amendments arising from IFRS 3 revised ix Amendments to IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in foreign operation x Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets i IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 From 1 January 2010, the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 in accounting for business combinations.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively.
The impact of the change on basic earnings per share is three pence in the current year.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 77 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred including the fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquiree and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in the income statement.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Costs relating to acquisitions are shown in separately disclosed items.
See note 4 for the application of the new policy to the business combinations that occurred during the period.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the income statement.
When share-based payment awards replacement awards are required to be exchanged for awards held by the acquirees employees acquirees awards and relate to past services, then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirers replacement awards is included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination.
The determination is based on the market-based value of the replacement awards compared with the market-based value of the acquirees awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to past and or future services.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009 For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
ii IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements amended 2008 From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 in accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has had no impact on earnings per share.
Under the new accounting policy, acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Previously, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 and have not been applied in preparing consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
Going concern The Board has reviewed forecasts, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic conditions.
The Board has also reviewed the Groups funding requirements and has taken into consideration the issuance of US$250m notes in December 2010, the US$60m bilateral facility signed in January 2010, and the signing of a 30m bilateral multi-currency term loan facility in December 2010.
It also took into consideration the refinancing of the Senior Bank Facility in February 2011 with a new syndicated US$600m multi-currency revolver available to 31 March 2016.
As a result of these reviews the Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity position.
The Board believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
In addition, on the basis of its forecasts, both base case and stressed, and available facilities, which are described in note 15, the Board has concluded that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 23.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the primary statements and in note 15 to the financial statements.
In addition note 24 to the financial statements includes the Groups financial risk management objectives and also gives details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Use of judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may 78 Intertek Annual Report 2010 2 Significant accounting policies continued differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected.
In applying the Groups accounting policies, management has applied judgement in the following areas that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Also discussed below are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation at the reporting date, that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Income tax The actual tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in the financial statements, see note 8.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income, see note 12.
Intangible assets When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible assets should be recognised separately from goodwill.
If such an asset is identified, then it is valued by discounting the probable future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset.
Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation, see note 11.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines on an annual basis whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill, at a determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows, see note 11.
Contingent consideration When the Group acquires businesses, the total consideration may consist of an amount paid on completion plus further amounts payable on agreed post completion dates.
These further amounts are contingent on the acquired business meeting agreed performance targets.
At the date of acquisition, the Group reviews the profit and cash forecasts for the acquired business and estimates the amount of contingent consideration that is likely to be due, see note 17.
Basis of consolidation Judgement is applied when determining if an entity acquired is controlled by the Group, and therefore is defined as a subsidiary.
Control is presumed to exist when the Group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity.
However, even if the Group owns half or less of the voting power of an entity, control may still exist.
In assessing control, the Group considers whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually exercised.
Specific examples of where the Group has control of subsidiaries are where it has the power to govern the entitys financial and operating policies by virtue of statute or agreement and where it has the power to cast the majority of votes of the entitys governing body, see note 22.
Claims In making provision for claims, management bases its judgement on the circumstances relating to each specific event, internal and external legal advice, knowledge of the industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal precedents.
The Groups legal and warranty claims are reviewed, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis by senior management, see note 17.
Employee post-retirement benefit obligations The Group has four principal defined pension benefit plans.
The obligations under these plans are recognised in the statement of financial position and represent the present value of the obligation calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management.
These actuarial valuations include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates.
These assumptions vary from time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions, see note 21.
Recoverability of trade receivables Trade receivables are reflected net of an estimated provision for impairment losses.
This provision is based primarily on a review of all outstanding accounts and considers the past payment history and creditworthiness of each account and the length of time that the debt has remained unpaid.
The actual amounts of debts that ultimately prove irrecoverable could vary from the actual provision made, see note 24. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that Intertek Annual Report 2010 79 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
For purchases of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries, the Group applies the entity concept method.
Under this method, the entire difference between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary, and the non-controlling interests share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position at the date of acquisition of the non-controlling interests, is reflected directly in the shareholders equity.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
c Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, except those arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, and on retranslation of available-for-sale equity instruments which are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at cumulative average rates of exchange during the year.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates: Assets and liabilities Income and expenses Actual rates Cumulative average rates Value of 1 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 09 2010 2009 US dollar 1.55 1.60 1.55 1.56 Euro 1.17 1.11 1.17 1.12 Chinese renminbi 10.26 10.90 10.47 10.63 Hong Kong dollar 12.05 12.38 12.00 12.06 Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to equity in the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
The Group has taken advantage of relief available in IFRS 1, to deem the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be zero at the date of transition to IFRSs on 1 January 2004.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are discussed in accounting policy e. d Financial instruments Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are stated at their amortised cost less impairment losses see accounting policy i.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement, and foreign currency differences on available-for-sale monetary items see note c, are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are stated at their amortised cost.
80 Intertek Annual Report 2010 2 Significant accounting policies continued Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge economically its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, in which case the recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy e. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the reporting date, being the present value of the difference between the quoted forward price and the exercise price of the contract.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments, or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
e Hedging Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same year that the hedged item affects the income statement.
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the hedged net investment is disposed of, the cumulative amount in equity is transferred to the income statement as an adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 81 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued f Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation see depreciation paragraph below and accumulated impairment losses see accounting policy i.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposal of items of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in profit or loss.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Leased assets Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased assets acquired by way of finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Other leases are operating leases.
These leased assets are not recognised in the Groups statement of financial position.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment.
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 50 years Short leasehold buildings Term of lease Fixtures, fittings and equipment 310 years Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are re-assessed at each reporting date.
Borrowing costs In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
g Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses see accounting policy i.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Groups previous accounting framework.
Purchased goodwill in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998 was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition, in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
If at the reporting date the fair values of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be established provisionally, then these values are used.
Any adjustments to these values made within 12 months of the acquisition date are taken as adjustments to goodwill.
Other intangible assets Other than goodwill, intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable, and which have finite useful lives.
82 Intertek Annual Report 2010 2 Significant accounting policies continued Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Computer software Up to 7 years Customer relationships Up to 10 years Know-how Up to 5 years Licences Contractual life Covenants not to compete Contractual life h Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of the inventories is based on the first-in-first-out FIFO principle.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
i Impairment Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
j Employee benefits Defined contribution plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as incurred.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 83 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value.
Any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of i an unconditional right to a refund from the plan or ii reductions in future contributions to the plan as measured by the estimated future service cost less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual of benefits in that year.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
In addition a provision for future minimum funding contributions is recorded to the extent that such payments are required to cover an existing shortfall, as measured on a minimum funding contribution basis, and having been paid will not be available as a refund or a reduction in future contributions to the plan.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees services in the accounting period is charged to the operating profit in the income statement.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the interest on the present value of the schemes liabilities, during the accounting period, are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity.
Share-based payment transactions The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of share options or shares is measured at the grant date and is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The charge is calculated using the Monte Carlo method and expensed to the income statement over the vesting period of the relevant award.
The charge for the share options and for the share awards is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting where conditions are non-market based.
The expense of the share awards under the deferred bonus plan is also adjusted for the probability of performance conditions being achieved.
The Group has taken advantage of the provisions of IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, and has recognised an expense only in respect of share options and share awards granted since 7 November 2002.
Own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT are included in the Group financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly in equity to retained earnings.
k Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
l Revenue Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income statement when the relevant service is completed, usually when the report of findings is issued or in certain circumstances, in proportion to the stage of completion, normally determined by reference to costs incurred to date in proportion to the total anticipated costs of the transaction at the reporting date.
Revenue in respect of outsourcing services is normally recognised when a tranche of work is complete and can be invoiced in accordance with contractual obligations.
In certain countries it is standard practice for work performed on behalf of sub-contractors to be invoiced subsequent to the sub-contractors obtaining settlement from the main contractor.
In these circumstances the revenue is recognised as deferred revenue on completion of a tranche of work.
m Expenses Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, facility fees, interest receivable on funds invested, net foreign exchange gains or losses on external income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities, and gains and losses on hedging instruments, that are recognised in the income statement see accounting policy e. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
n Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
84 Intertek Annual Report 2010 2 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided using the statement of financial position liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: overseas retained earnings, the distribution of which is under the control of the Group, and which are not likely to be distributed in the foreseeable future: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
o Dividends Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid.
Final dividends are reported as a movement in equity in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
p Operating segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
All operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
3 Operating segments and presentation of results The Group is organised into six operating divisions each of which offer services to different industries and are managed separately: Consumer Goods: Commercial & Electrical: Oil, Chemical & Agri: Analytical Services: Industrial Services: and Minerals.
The costs of the corporate head office and other costs which are not controlled by the operating divisions are allocated to these divisions.
These divisions are the operating segments that are reported to the chief operating decision maker and are the Groups reportable segments.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arms length basis.
There is no significant seasonality in the Groups operations.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly borrowings, pension fund liabilities, corporate expenses and assets and tax.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the year to acquire property, plant and equipment, and computer software.
Principal activities are as follows: Consumer Goods provides services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food, and retail industries.
Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality assurance, and hazardous substance testing.
Commercial & Electrical provides services including testing and certification, electromagnetic compatibility testing EMC, outsourcing, benchmark and performance testing and environmental testing.
These are provided to a wide range of industries including the home appliance, lighting, medical, building, industrial and HVAC R heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration, IT, telecom, renewable energy and automotive industries.
Oil, Chemical & Agri provides independent cargo inspection as well as non-inspection related laboratory testing, calibration and related technical services to the worlds energy, petroleum, chemical and agricultural industries.
It also provides cargo scanning, fiscal support services and standards programmes to governments, national standards organisations and customs authorities.
Analytical Services provides expert laboratory services and consultancy to a broad range of industries including chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and automotive and aerospace.
We have an established track record of success in laboratory outsourcing with many large internationally recognised companies.
Industrial Services provides inspection, testing and auditing services, including management systems certification, second-party auditing, supplier evaluation, technical verification, conformity assessment, asset integrity management, dimensional control management, training, health and safety and risk consulting, and greenhouse gas services.
Minerals provides complete analytical solutions to the worlds minerals, ore and mining industries.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 85 Notes to the financial statements 3 Operating segments and presentation of results continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Revenue from InterAdjusted Separately external segment Total operating disclosed Operating customers revenue revenue profit items profit m m m m m m Consumer Goods 341.5 1.3 342.8 109.2 0.7 108.5 Commercial & Electrical 269.2 3.4 272.6 38.2 3.0 35.2 Oil, Chemical & Agri 452.7 2.8 455.5 51.0 3.9 47.1 Analytical Services 151.5 1.7 153.2 14.5 5.1 9.4 Industrial Services 93.8 0.8 94.6 7.3 3.3 4.0 Minerals 65.5 0.2 65.7 7.3 1.4 5.9 Eliminations 10.2 10.2 Total 1,374.2 1,374.2 227.5 17.4 210.1 Unallocated separately disclosed items 3.6 3.6 Group operating profit 227.5 21.0 206.5 Net financing costs 15.6 1.0 16.6 Profit before income tax 211.9 22.0 189.9 Income tax expense 56.6 5.7 50.9 Profit for the year 155.3 16.3 139.0 Year ended 31 December 2010 Depreciation Capital and expenditure Segment Segment software including assets liabilities amortisation software m m m m Consumer Goods 139.5 47.0 13.3 15.5 Commercial & Electrical 200.4 51.5 11.3 16.9 Oil, Chemical & Agri 219.5 77.4 16.1 17.1 Analytical Services 167.5 22.1 6.1 7.5 Industrial Services 87.8 17.4 0.8 0.7 Minerals 85.6 9.7 6.0 3.4 Total allocated 900.3 225.1 53.6 61.1 Unallocated 256.9 450.1 1.7 4.8 Total 1,157.2 675.2 55.3 65.9 Year ended 31 December 2009 Revenue from InterAdjusted Separately external segment Total operating disclosed Operating customers revenue revenue profit items profit m m m m m m Consumer Goods 320.9 0.8 321.7 105.5 0.8 104.7 Commercial & Electrical 244.8 2.9 247.7 34.7 3.1 31.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri 406.7 1.2 407.9 43.7 7.1 36.6 Analytical Services 137.5 1.7 139.2 14.6 4.1 10.5 Industrial Services 80.7 3.9 84.6 6.5 2.8 3.7 Minerals 46.7 46.7 4.0 1.2 2.8 Eliminations 10.5 10.5 Total 1,237.3 1,237.3 209.0 19.1 189.9 Unallocated separately disclosed items 3.2 3.2 Group operating profit 209.0 22.3 186.7 Net financing costs 17.5 17.5 Profit before income tax 191.5 22.3 169.2 Income tax expense 51.1 5.6 45.5 Profit for the year 140.4 16.7 123.7 86 Intertek Annual Report 2010 3 Operating segments and presentaton of results continued Year ended 31 December 2009 Depreciation Capital and expenditure Segment Segment software including assets liabilities amortisation software m m m m Consumer Goods 124.6 43.6 12.3 13.6 Commercial & Electrical 187.0 46.1 11.3 10.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri 180.8 65.5 16.2 15.4 Analytical Services 159.8 16.2 5.6 5.1 Industrial Services 62.2 11.9 0.7 0.4 Minerals 72.9 6.9 4.9 3.3 Total allocated 787.3 190.2 51.0 48.4 Unallocated 168.8 426.6 0.4 4.4 Total 956.1 616.8 51.4 52.8 Geographic segments All the business segments are managed on a worldwide basis but the main countries, which represent greater than 10% of either the Groups external revenues or non-current assets, are Australia, China including Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of the entity generating that revenue.
Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
4 Separately disclosed items 2010 2009 m m Operating costs: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 12.9 12.8 Acquisition and integration costs 5.3 2.5 Restructuring costs 3.2 Claims and settlements 2.8 3.8 Total operating costs 21.0 22.3 Fair value of interest rate swaps recycled from equity note 7 1.0 Total costs 22.0 22.3 Income tax credit 5.7 5.6 Total 16.3 16.7 Intertek Annual Report 2010 87 Notes to the financial statements 4 Separately disclosed items continued In line with IAS 38, acquisition intangibles are amortised over their useful economic life.
This amortisation is excluded from adjusted results and is separately disclosed as this is consistent with the way in which results are reviewed by Intertek management and provides a consistent view of performance across the Groups operations.
Acquisition and integration costs include 2.7m 2009: 1.9m for costs in relation to discussions with Det Norske Veritas, 2.1m 2009: 0.6m for costs associated with the acquisitions described in note 22 and ongoing acquisitions, and 0.5m 2009: nil in respect of integration costs.
Claims of 2.8m 2009: 3.8m relate principally to the settlement of a claim from a group of employees in the USA in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division.
The fair value of interest rate swaps of 1.0m 2009: nil was recycled from equity when the hedging instruments became ineffective on the repayment of senior term loans.
The income tax associated with the separately disclosed items is a credit of 5.7m 2009: credit of 5.6m.
5 Expenses and auditors remuneration 2010 2009 m m Included in profit for the year are the following expenses: Property rentals 45.0 40.4 Lease and hire charges fixtures, fittings and equipment 8.8 8.2 Depreciation and software amortisation 55.3 51.4 Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software 0.2 0.4 2010 2009 m m Auditors remuneration: Audit of these financial statements 0.3 0.3 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.2 Other services pursuant to such legislation review of interim financial statements 0.1 0.1 Total fees pursuant to legislation 1.7 1.6 Taxation services 0.8 0.2 Transaction advisory 0.8 0.4 Other 0.6 0.1 Total 3.9 2.3 In addition the auditors and their associates were paid 10,000 2009: 10,000 in respect of the audit of associated pension schemes.
6 Employees 2010 2009 Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 501.0 459.4 Equity-settled transactions 7.4 4.9 Social security costs 54.3 47.6 Pension costs 22.7 19.8 Total employee costs 585.4 531.7 The wages and salaries cost for 2009 has been adjusted to exclude sub-contractor costs.
88 Intertek Annual Report 2010 6 Employees continued Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Details of pension arrangements and equity-settled transactions are set out in notes 21 and 23 respectively.
Average number of employees by activity 2010 2009 Consumer Goods 9,374 8,843 Commercial & Electrical 3,708 3,507 Oil, Chemical & Agri 8,906 8,627 Analytical Services 1,577 1,352 Industrial Services 873 765 Minerals 1,573 1,323 Central 220 163 Total average number for the year ended 31 December 26,231 24,580 Total actual number at 31 December 27,043 25,183 7 Net financing costs 2010 2009 Recognised in income statement m m Finance income Interest on bank balances 0.9 1.0 Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 Expected return on pension assets note 21 5.2 3.3 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets transferred from equity 1.1 Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges 0.9 Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading forward exchange contracts 0.2 2.0 Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading interest rate swaps 0.2 Total finance income 7.2 7.7 Finance expense Interest on borrowings 14.5 16.1 Pension interest cost note 21 5.1 3.7 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred from equity 1.9 0.2 Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities 1.6 4.7 Facility fees and other 0.7 0.5 Total finance expense 23.8 25.2 Net financing costs 16.6 17.5 Represents the net effect of 1.0m 2009: nil in respect of the fair value of interest rate swaps recycled from equity note 4.
2010 2009 Recognised directly in other comprehensive income m m Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 30.1 35.4 Net exchange loss gain on hedges of net investment in foreign operations 6.3 27.2 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.9 1.3 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss 2.1 0.2 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 1.1 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets transferred to profit or loss 1.1 Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 0.4 Finance income expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax 26.0 7.1 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 24.8 6.5 Non-controlling interest 1.2 0.6 Finance income expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax 26.0 7.1 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 3.0 1.5 Translation reserve and non-controlling interests 23.8 8.2 Retained earnings 0.8 0.4 Finance income expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax 26.0 7.1 Intertek Annual Report 2010 89 Notes to the financial statements 8 Income tax expense 2010 2009 m m UK corporation tax at 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 2.6 2.7 Double taxation relief 3.1 1.5 UK taxation 0.5 4.2 Overseas taxation 54.3 58.6 Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities 0.8 0.3 Current tax 54.6 54.1 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.7 8.6 Total tax in income statement 50.9 45.5 Tax on adjusted result 56.6 51.1 Tax on separately disclosed items 5.7 5.6 Total tax in income statement 50.9 45.5 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Before Tax Net Before Tax Net tax expense of tax tax expense of tax Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income m m m m m m Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 30.1 30.1 35.4 35.4 Net exchange loss gain on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 6.3 6.3 27.2 27.2 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.9 0.2 0.7 1.3 0.4 0.9 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss 2.1 0.6 1.5 0.2 0.2 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 15.0 0.2 14.8 2.5 0.8 3.3 Total other comprehensive income for the year 41.8 1.0 40.8 9.2 1.2 10.4 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Before Tax Net Before Tax Net tax credit of tax tax credit of tax Income tax recognised directly in equity m m m m m m Equity-settled transactions 7.4 2.2 9.6 4.9 1.4 6.3 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Reconciliation of the notional tax charge at UK standard rate of corporation tax of 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 2010 2009 m m Profit before taxation 189.9 169.2 Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 53.2 47.4 Differences in overseas tax rates 12.4 10.6 Tax on dividends 5.0 6.0 Non-deductible expenses 3.4 4.8 Tax exempt income 0.4 0.6 Losses brought forward utilised 1.2 4.2 Current year losses not recognised 1.0 1.5 Accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences not recognised 2.6 4.4 Brought forward accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences utilised 0.1 0.3 Recognition of previously unprovided accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences 0.5 2.9 Recognition of previously unprovided losses 0.7 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 0.3 Total tax in income statement 50.9 45.5 During the year there was a current tax credit of 0.8m on equity-settled transactions 2009: credit of 0.8m and deferred tax credit of 0.4m on pension deficit, interest rate swaps and equity-settled transactions 2009: charge of 0.6m charged directly to equity see note 12.
90 Intertek Annual Report 2010 8 Income tax expense continued The effective tax rate on the result for the year was 26.8% 2009: 26.9% and for the adjusted results was 26.7% 2009: 26.7%.
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period of four years from 2011.
The first reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% was substantively enacted on 20 July 2010 and will be effective from 1 April 2011.
9 Earnings per ordinary share The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33: Earnings Per Share, an adjusted earnings per share has also been calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and other separately disclosed items.
It has been calculated to allow shareholders to have a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below: 2010 2009 m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 128.6 114.7 Separately disclosed items note 4 16.3 16.7 Adjusted earnings 144.9 131.4 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 159.3 158.4 Potentially dilutive share options 2.8 2.8 Diluted weighted average number of shares 162.1 161.2 Basic earnings per share 80.7p 72.4p Options 1.4 p 1.2 p Diluted earnings per share 79.3p 71.2p Basic adjusted earnings per share 91.0p 83.0p Options 1.6 p 1.5 p Diluted adjusted earnings per share 89.4p 81.5p Intertek Annual Report 2010 91 Notes to the financial statements 10 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings Land and and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 43.5 403.1 446.6 Exchange adjustments 2.5 22.6 25.1 Additions 7.3 38.4 45.7 Disposals 11.9 11.9 Businesses acquired note 22 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2009 48.3 407.4 455.7 Depreciation At 1 January 2009 6.1 205.7 211.8 Exchange adjustments 0.4 12.8 13.2 Charge for the year 1.7 45.7 47.4 Disposals 11.2 11.2 At 31 December 2009 7.4 227.4 234.8 Net book value at 31 December 2009 40.9 180.0 220.9 Net book value at 1 January 2009 37.4 197.4 234.8 Cost At 1 January 2010 48.3 407.4 455.7 Exchange adjustments 2.5 20.9 23.4 Additions 3.6 56.6 60.2 Disposals 0.4 10.3 10.7 Businesses acquired note 22 1.2 2.5 3.7 At 31 December 2010 55.2 477.1 532.3 Depreciation At 1 January 2010 7.4 227.4 234.8 Exchange adjustments 0.4 12.6 13.0 Charge for the year 1.7 49.4 51.1 Disposals 0.4 9.3 9.7 At 31 December 2010 9.1 280.1 289.2 Net book value at 31 December 2010 46.1 197.0 243.1 Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes assets in the course of construction of 5.6m at 31 December 2010, 2009: 7.0m, mainly comprising of laboratories under construction.
These assets will not be depreciated until they are brought into use.
There are no significant borrowing costs capitalised within any qualifying assets 2009: nil.
The average remaining amortisation period for customer relationships is three years 2009: 3.3 years.
Computer software net book value of 14.0m at 31 December 2010 2009: 12.0m includes software in construction of 3.2m 2009: 5.8m.
Borrowing costs capitalised within software in the course of construction is 0.1m 2009: nil.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 93 Notes to the financial statements 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year has been allocated to operating segments as follows: 2010 2009 m m Consumer Goods 4.0 1.2 Commercial & Electrical 2.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri 3.9 Analytical Services 12.6 Industrial Services 12.3 20.4 Minerals 0.7 0.2 At 31 December 33.5 24.4 The total carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Consumer Goods 27.2 23.5 Commercial & Electrical 59.7 57.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri 28.1 23.4 Analytical Services 95.9 81.8 Industrial Services 47.2 34.4 Minerals 43.4 37.1 Net book value at 31 December 301.5 257.8 All goodwill is recorded in local currency.
Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment Review The following table analyses the total Group goodwill of 301.5m 2009: 257.8m between eight identified cash generating units CGUs.
2010 2009 m m Consumer Goods 27.2 23.5 Commercial & Electrical 59.7 57.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri 28.1 23.4 Analytical Services Materials & Pharmaceutical Testing 70.9 57.5 Analytical Services Upstream 25.0 24.3 Industrial Services Systems Certification 3.3 3.2 Industrial Services Technical Services 43.9 31.2 Minerals 43.4 37.1 Total goodwill net book value at 31 December 301.5 257.8 94 Intertek Annual Report 2010 In order to determine whether impairments are required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each CGU.
The calculation is based on projecting future cash flows over a five year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model which assumes long term growth rate on the operating cash flows of between 2.5% to 4.1% 2009: 2% to 5% reflecting the long term GDP growth forecasts in the various regions in which the respective CGUs operate.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount in excess of the value in use.
The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the CGUs.
The approved budget for the following financial year forms the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU.
The cash flow projections in the four financial years following the budget year reflect managements conservative expectations of the medium term operating performance of the CGUs and growth prospects in the various CGUs markets and regions.
Key assumptions The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the revenue and operating margin growth rates which directly influence the forecasted operating cash flows, as well as the discount rate applied.
In determining the key assumptions, management have taken into account the current economic climate and the resulting impact on expected growth and discount rates.
The calculation of the value in use is sensitive to the following key assumptions: i Operating cash flow One of the key drivers of the operating cash flow is revenue.
The 2011 revenue figures for each CGU are based on the 2011 approved budget.
For the years 2012 to 2015, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account of past experience and GDP growth prospects.
In all cases it is considered that the assumed growth rates are conservative.
The other key driver of the operating cash flow is operating profit.
The assumed operating profit growth rates, which are considered conservative, ranged from 7.6% to 22.1% 2009: 1.3% to 16.7% reflecting management assessment of current and future market environment of the sectors and countries in which the CGUs operate.
ii Discount rate applied The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre tax rate that reflects the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risks specific to the CGU.
The discount rates applied to the CGU were in the range of 9.8% to 14.3% 2009: 10.6% to 14.5%.
Sensitivity analysis There are no realistic changes that could be made to the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of each CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
Management have also considered the effect of the following extreme scenarios: i Assuming revenues decline each year by 1% in 2012 to 2015 from the 2011 budgeted revenues, with margins increasing with base assumptions, all CGUs continue to show sufficiency of headroom.
ii Assuming 0% growth in operating profit in 2012 to 2015, with revenues increasing per base assumptions, all CGUs continue to show positive headroom.
iii Assuming an increase in the discount rates used by 1%, all CGUs continue to show headroom.
Management consider that the likelihood of any or all of the above extreme scenarios occurring is low.
There are no intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 95 Notes to the financial statements 12 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Net Net 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Intangible assets 10.8 8.7 10.8 8.7 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 3.3 2.6 2.0 1.8 1.3 0.8 Pensions 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.3 Equity-settled transactions 5.2 3.2 5.2 3.2 Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.9 0.3 0.9 Provisions and other temporary differences 18.6 16.4 0.4 0.3 18.2 16.1 Tax value of losses 4.4 2.5 4.4 2.5 Tax set-off 5.6 3.4 5.6 3.4 Total 26.4 22.6 7.6 7.5 18.8 15.1 Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2010 2009 m m Deductible temporary differences 3.6 4.8 Pensions 0.9 4.7 Tax losses 12.5 18.1 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 5.6 3.4 Equity-settled transactions 1.3 0.9 Total 23.9 31.9 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits from them.
There is a temporary difference of 12.5m 2009: 11.7m which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings.
No deferred tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group and there is no intention to either repatriate from or sell the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.
Recognised 1 January Exchange in income Recognised 31 December 2010 adjustments Acquisitions statement in equity 2010 Movements in temporary differences during the year m m m m m m Intangible assets 8.7 0.3 1.2 0.6 10.8 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 0.8 0.5 1.3 Pensions 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 Equity-settled transactions 3.2 0.6 1.4 5.2 Interest rate swaps 0.9 0.2 0.8 0.3 Provisions and other temporary differences 16.1 0.7 1.4 18.2 Tax value of losses 2.5 0.4 1.5 4.4 Total 15.1 0.8 1.2 3.7 0.4 18.8 See note 8.
Recognised 1 January Exchange in income Recognised 31 December 2009 adjustments Acquisitions statement in equity 2009 m m m m m m Intangible assets 10.3 0.2 0.4 1.8 8.7 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 0.7 1.5 0.8 Pensions 1.2 0.1 0.8 0.3 Equity-settled transactions 1.7 0.9 0.6 3.2 Interest rate swaps 1.3 0.4 0.9 Provisions and other temporary differences 14.5 1.7 0.4 3.7 16.1 Tax value of losses 1.6 0.1 0.8 2.5 Total 9.3 1.4 0.8 8.6 0.6 15.1 See note 8.
96 Intertek Annual Report 2010 13 Inventories 2010 2009 m m Raw materials and consumables 7.0 6.3 Work in progress 2.1 0.7 Finished goods 0.8 0.6 Total inventories 9.9 7.6 The amount of inventory recognised as an expense in 2010 was 11.4m 2009: 10.2m.
All inventories are expected to be recovered within 12 months.
The amount of inventory written off in 2010 was nil 2009: nil.
14 Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 m m Trade receivables 235.7 203.7 Other receivables 38.1 25.5 Prepayments and accrued income 41.4 36.9 Total trade and other receivables 315.2 266.1 Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of 10.3m 2009: 9.9m and are all expected to be recovered within 12 months.
Impairment on trade receivables charged as part of operating costs was 4.8m 2009: 6.2m.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their short-term duration.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers who are internationally dispersed.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and further details on impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 24.
15 Interest bearing loans and borrowings Current Current Non-current Non-current 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Senior term loans and notes 93.6 8.2 290.0 323.7 Other borrowings 3.1 3.7 Total borrowings 93.6 8.2 293.1 327.4 2010 2009 Analysis of debt m m Debt falling due: In one year or less senior term loans 93.6 8.2 Between one and two years senior term loans 198.5 Between two and five years senior notes and 2.8m of other borrowings 80.8 19.0 Over five years senior notes and 0.3m of other borrowings 212.3 109.9 Total borrowings 386.7 335.6 Intertek Annual Report 2010 97 Notes to the financial statements 15 Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued Description of borrowings Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2010 were 336.2m 2009: 153.2m.
Principal bank facility In February 2011, the Group successfully completed the refinancing of the principal bank facility.
The new syndicated facility comprises a US$600m multi-currency revolving credit facility available to 31 March 2016.
Advances under the new facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR, or their local currency equivalent, plus a margin, depending upon the Groups leverage.
On execution of the new facility, the Groups original principal bank facility was cancelled.
The original facility was raised in 2004 and had a final maturity date of 15 December 2011.
The facility comprised four separate tranches or facilities, all of which were cancelled in February 2011, which were as follows: Facility A was a 14m multi-currency term loan that was repaid prior to 2010.
Facility B was a 225m multi-currency revolving credit facility that was repaid during 2010.
Drawings under facility B at 31 December 2010 were nil 2009: 106.4m.
Facility C was a 364 day 80m multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Facility C was initially reduced to 48m prior to 2010 and then reduced to 44m in November 2010.
Drawings under facility C at 31 December 2010 were nil 2009: 8.1m.
Facility D was a 100m multi-currency term loan facility that was reduced to 93.6m prior to 2010.
Drawings under facility D at 31 December 2010 were 93.6m 2009: 92.1m.
Advances under the facilities bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR, or other local currency equivalent, plus a margin.
The margin over LIBOR for facility D was in the range of 0.3% to 0.5% in accordance with a leverage grid.
As at 31 December 2010, the margin was 0.3%.
Private placement bonds In June 2008, the Group raised US$100m by way of a senior note issue.
The notes are repayable on 26 June 2015 and pay a fixed annual interest rate of 5.54%.
In December 2008, the Group issued a further US$100m of senior notes.
These notes were issued in two tranches with US$25m repayable on 21 January 2014 at a fixed annual interest rate of 7.5% and US$75m repayable on 10 June 2016 at a fixed annual interest rate of 8.0%.
In December 2010, the Group issued a further US$250m of senior notes.
These notes were issued in two tranches with US$100m repayable on 15 December 2017 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.2% and US$150m repayable on 15 December 2020 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.91%.
Other facilities In January 2010, the Group signed a US$60m bilateral, multi-currency facility available to 25 January 2013.
Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2010 were nil.
In December 2010, the Group signed a further bilateral multi-currency facility available to 31 March 2016.
The facility comprises a 20m multi-currency revolver facility and a 12m multi-currency term loan facility.
Drawings under these facilities at 31 December 2010 were nil.
16 Trade and other payables Current Current Non-current Non-current 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Trade payables 36.7 32.2 Other payables 22.8 17.0 2.2 3.6 Accruals and deferred income 160.8 137.7 5.1 Total trade and other payables 220.3 186.9 7.3 3.6 Includes 1.8m 2009: 0.5m of deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions.
During the year, payments on account were transferred to accruals and deferred income.
The amounts in respect of 2009 have been adjusted.
The Groups exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 24.
All trade payables are expected to be paid within 12 months.
98 Intertek Annual Report 2010 17 Provisions Contingent consideration Claims Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 11.5 15.8 4.2 31.5 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.3 0.7 Provided in the year: 6.6 1.1 7.7 in respect of current year acquisitions 0.6 0.6 in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.9 0.9 Released during the year 1.7 1.6 3.3 Utilised during the year 9.3 3.2 1.3 13.8 At 31 December 2010 2.4 17.9 4.0 24.3 Included in: Current liabilities 2.1 17.9 3.5 23.5 Non-current liabilities 0.3 0.5 0.8 At 31 December 2010 2.4 17.9 4.0 24.3 Contingent consideration represents the additional amounts payable on acquisitions which are uncertain in amount, since they are based on the acquired businesses achieving agreed future performance targets.
From time to time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business.
The outcome of such litigation and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often subject to legal proceedings.
Based on information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The provision for claims of 17.9m 2009: 15.8m represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identified claims from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs.
The timing of the cash outflow relating to the provisions is uncertain but is likely to be within one year.
Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in note 26.
The other provision of 4.0m 2009: 4.2m comprises 1.5m 2009: 2.5m for restructuring in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division, 2.0m 2009: 1.7m in relation to onerous contracts and 0.5m 2009: nil in relation to acquisition integration costs.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 99 Notes to the financial statements 18 Capital and reserves Share capital 2010 2010 2009 Group and Company Number m m Allotted, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 158,711,209 1.6 1.6 Employee share option schemes options exercised note 23 423,749 Deferred Bonus Share Plan note 23 419,251 Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 159,554,209 1.6 1.6 Shares classified in shareholders funds 1.6 1.6 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and are entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company.
During the year, the Company issued 423,749 2009: 569,428 ordinary shares in respect of the share options exercised, for consideration of 2.8m 2009: 3.6m settled in cash and issued 419,251 2009: 336,288 shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan for nil 2009: nil consideration.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Fair value reserve The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are derecognised or impaired.
Purchase of own shares During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company purchased 31,000 of its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of 310 for 0.5m which was debited to retained earnings in equity and was held by the Intertek Group Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
The ESOT held 11,834 shares with an aggregate nominal value of 118, at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
The associated cash out flow was presented as a financing cash flow.
The ESOT is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee.
The total ESOT costs charged to the income statement in 2010 were 6,200 2009: 9,700.
Other This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital.
Dividends 2010 2010 2009 2009 Pence per Pence per m share m share Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 21.7 13.7 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 13.0 8.2 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 27.6 17.3p Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 14.9 9.3p Dividends paid 42.5 26.6p 34.7 21.9 After the reporting date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 18.8p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010, which is expected to amount to 30m.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 17 June 2011.
100 Intertek Annual Report 2010 19 Non-controlling interests 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 18.0 16.0 Exchange adjustments 1.2 0.6 Share of profit for the year 10.4 9.0 Additions 0.1 Purchase of non-controlling interests 0.1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 6.6 6.3 At 31 December 23.1 18.0 In 2009, the Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of 0.1m and a decrease in retained earnings of 0.5m.
20 Commitments At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows: 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m Within one year 37.9 6.3 44.2 32.4 5.0 37.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 59.1 4.4 63.5 53.9 5.0 58.9 Over five years 41.2 0.5 41.7 29.3 29.3 Total 138.2 11.2 149.4 115.6 10.0 125.6 The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative offices and equipment under lease agreements which have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in the financial statements amounted to 5.6m 2009: 6.4m.
21 Employee benefits Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
In most locations, these are defined contribution arrangements.
However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Switzerland.
The United Kingdom schemes are the Intertek Pension Scheme and the Capcis Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme that came into the Group through the acquisition of the Umitek group in January 2007.
These are funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
The schemes in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were closed to new entrants in 2002 and 2000, respectively.
In 2010, as part of the acquisition of Expert Services on 31 March 2010, Swiss pension assets were transferred by the vendors into an insurance plan on behalf of the employees transferred to the Group.
Pension arrangements in respect of existing Intertek Swiss employees were also transferred into the same plan.
This insured plan provides a guaranteed rate of return on investment and a guaranteed annuity conversion rate in accordance with Swiss law.
As such this plan has been treated as a defined benefit plan.
Subsequent to the acquisition date, a new fully insured Swiss pension scheme was formed.
Other funded defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and are therefore accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes.
The Group fully recognises any actuarial gains and losses in each year in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
a The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was: 2010 2009 m m Defined contribution schemes 20.3 17.8 Defined benefit schemes current service cost 2.4 2.0 Pension cost included in operating profit note 6 22.7 19.8 See b below for pension interest cost and expected return on scheme assets recognised in the consolidated income statement.
b The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The last full triennial actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom was carried out as at 1 April 2010, but this has been updated to 31 December 2010 for IAS 19 purposes.
The last full triennial actuarial valuation of the Capcis Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme in the UK was carried out as at 1 April 2007 and this has also been updated to 31 December 2010 for IAS 19 purposes.
The last full actuarial valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2009, for local accounting purposes but this has been updated to 31 December 2010 for IAS 19 purposes.
The Swiss plans were actuarially valued for IAS 19 purposes at 31 December 2010.
The Group is currently making additional contributions into the pension schemes with the overall objective of paying off the deficits in line with actuaries recommendations.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 101 Notes to the financial statements 21 Employee benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 m m m Fair value of scheme assets 96.3 73.0 58.6 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 101.8 92.5 77.1 Net liability in the statement of financial position 5.5 19.5 18.5 The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current service cost 2.4 2.0 Expected return on scheme assets note 7 5.2 3.3 Pension interest cost note 7 5.1 3.7 Total charge 2.3 2.4 The current service cost is included in operating costs in the income statement and pension interest cost and expected return on scheme assets are included in net financing costs.
c Changes in the fair value of scheme assets: 2010 2009 m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 73.0 58.6 Acquisitions 9.3 New Swiss scheme 1.9 Expected return on schemes assets 5.2 3.3 Normal contributions by the employer 1.9 2.2 Special contributions by the employer 1.2 2.0 Contributions by scheme participants 0.7 0.5 Benefits paid 3.1 3.5 Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plans 1.3 1.8 Actuarial gains 4.9 11.7 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 96.3 73.0 d Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 92.5 77.1 Acquisitions 11.0 New Swiss scheme 1.9 Current service cost 2.4 2.0 Interest cost 5.1 3.7 Contributions by scheme participants 0.7 0.5 Benefits paid 3.1 3.5 Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plans 1.4 1.5 Actuarial gains losses 10.1 14.2 Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 101.8 92.5 e Actuarial losses recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 2010 2009 m m Cumulative loss at 1 January 15.8 13.3 Recognised profits losses in the year 15.0 2.5 Cumulative loss at 31 December 0.8 15.8 f Company contributions In 2011, the Group expects to make normal contributions of 2.0m 2010: 1.9m.
Additionally, in February 2011, the Group made a special contribution of 1.2m 2010: 1.2m to the UK pension schemes.
102 Intertek Annual Report 2010 21 Employee benefits continued g Fair value of scheme assets in each category: United Kingdom Hong Kong Swiss Schemes Scheme Schemes 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Equities 63% 71% 67% 68% Bonds 30% 24% 31% 31% 100% Cash other 7% 5% 2% 1% h The pension deficit of each scheme at 31 December 2010 was as follows: United Kingdom Hong Kong Swiss Schemes Scheme Schemes Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 68.8 15.1 12.4 96.3 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 71.4 15.4 15.0 101.8 Deficit in schemes 2.6 0.3 2.6 5.5 The Swiss schemes relate to existing employees and to those employees transferred as a result of the acquisition of Expert Services in March 2010. i Principal actuarial assumptions: United Kingdom Hong Kong Swiss Weighted Schemes Scheme Schemes average 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.4% 5.5% 3.1% 2.6% 3.0% 4.7% 5.0% Inflation rate based on CPI 3.1% n a n a n a 0.5% 2.7% 3.7% Rate of salary increases 4.1% 4.2% 3.0% 3.0% 1.5% 3.5% 4.0% Rate of pension increases: CPI subject to a maximum rate of 5% p. a.
3.1% n a n a n a n a 3.1% n a Increases subject to a maximum rate of 2.5% p. a.
2.5% 2.5% n a n a n a 2.5% 2.5% Annualised expected return on scheme assets 6.0% 6.8% 7.8% 7.9% 4.0% 6.0% 7.0% In July 2010, the UK Government announced its intention to base statutory minimum increases in revaluation in deferment and pension increases on the Consumer Prices index CPI, rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
The Trustees of the main UK scheme therefore took legal advice on how this would impact on the scheme.
Following this legal advice, the revaluation of benefits in deferment and pension increases in payment under the Scheme will, with effect from January 2011, be based on the CPI instead of the RPI.
For pension accrued after 5 April 2005, pension increases in payment are subject to a cap of 2.5% per annum.
For pensions accrued prior to 5 April 2005, pension increases in payment are subject to a cap of 5% per annum.
It is estimated that the effect of this change to CPI has resulted in a reduction in liabilities of approximately 2.7m.
This gain has been recognised within the actuarial gains and losses.
The retirement arrangements in Hong Kong pays lump sums to members instead of pensions and the Swiss schemes are insured plans.
The expected rates of return on scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices which take into account the current level of expected returns on risk free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with equities and the expectation for future returns on such assets.
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plans investment portfolio.
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long-term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on such assets at the reporting date.
A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments.
This is based on an out-performance assumption over gilt yields.
The actual return on scheme assets was as follows: United Kingdom Hong Kong Swiss Schemes Scheme Schemes 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Actual return 8.4 10.9 1.6 4.1 0.2 Intertek Annual Report 2010 103 Notes to the financial statements 21 Employee benefits continued j Life expectancy assumptions at year end for: United Kingdom Hong Kong Swiss Schemes Scheme Schemes 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 m m m m m Male aged 40 46.5 48.5 n a n a 40.2 Male aged 65 21.0 22.3 n a n a 17.9 Female aged 40 48.7 51.1 n a n a 44.2 Female aged 65 23.6 24.7 n a n a 20.9 The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays lump sums to members instead of pensions at the point they retire.
Since the amount of the lump sum is not related to the life expectancy of the members, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong scheme.
Applies from March 2010 following the acquisition of Expert Services.
The table above shows, for the United Kingdom schemes, the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at 31 December.
The 2010 mortality tables adopted are the PNA00 projected by year of birth, with an allowance for the medium cohort effect and a minimum improvement of 1% the same tables were used in 2009.
For the Swiss schemes, the mortality table adopted is the BVG 2005, an industry standard in Switzerland which is based on statistical evidence of major Swiss pension funds.
k Sensitivity analysis The table below sets out the sensitivity on the pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2010 of the two main assumptions.
Increase decrease Liabilities Assets Deficit in deficit Change in assumptions m m m m No change 101.8 96.3 5.5 0.25% rise in discount rate 97.0 96.3 0.7 4.8 0.25% fall in discount rate 106.7 96.3 10.4 4.9 0.25% rise in inflation 103.9 96.3 7.6 2.1 0.25% fall in inflation 99.8 96.3 3.5 2.0 l History of experience gains and losses: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 96.3 73.0 58.6 66.6 56.4 Defined benefit obligations 101.8 92.5 77.1 73.9 71.6 Deficit 5.5 19.5 18.5 7.3 15.2 Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities 2.8 1.8 0.4 1.5 1.6 Experience gains losses on scheme assets 4.9 11.7 17.4 2.1 1.3 104 Intertek Annual Report 2010 22 Acquisitions The Group made seven acquisitions during the year, all of which were paid for in cash.
Provisional details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below.
The analysis is provisional and amendments may be made to these figures in the 12 months following the date of each acquisition, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 4.6 1.0 3.6 Goodwill 34.5 34.5 Other intangible assets 7.1 7.1 Inventory 0.6 0.6 Trade and other receivables 7.2 7.2 Trade and other payables 6.4 2.5 8.9 Net pension liability 2.1 0.4 1.7 Deferred tax liability 1.2 1.2 Net assets acquired 3.9 37.3 41.2 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 41.9 Deferred consideration 1.3 Contingent consideration note 17 0.6 Total consideration 41.2 Total goodwill additions per note 11 of 33.5m is made up of 34.5m in respect of 2010 acquisitions above and 1.0 m in respect of the 2009 acquisitions see note 22 d. Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of 7.2m at acquisition date.
a Expert Services The largest acquisition, which was a combined share and asset deal, was that of the regulatory and safety testing businesses of Expert Services headquartered in Switzerland and operating in several countries, from BASF SE on 31 March 2010, for a cash consideration of 21.4m.
A receivable of 2.5m, outstanding at 31 December 2010, will be paid in 2011.
Cash acquired within the business was 0.2m.
The acquisition related costs amounted to 0.5m and have been charged to operating costs.
ES Regulatory Services help clients to gain health, safety and environmental approvals for their products and to address hazardous substances and chemicals notifications and regulations worldwide.
ES Safety Testing Services are used by a range of global companies primarily in the pharmaceutical and chemicals sectors to ensure their products meet relevant safety requirements.
The acquisition is being integrated into the Analytical and Industrial Services divisions.
Initial integration costs of 0.5m have been charged to operating costs note 4.
Provisional details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 2.4 1.0 1.4 Goodwill 17.3 17.3 Other intangible assets 3.0 3.0 Inventory 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 2.0 2.0 Trade and other payables 0.9 2.2 3.1 Net pension liability 2.1 0.4 1.7 Deferred tax liability 0.3 0.3 Net assets acquired 1.5 17.2 18.7 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 21.2 Deferred consideration 2.5 Total consideration 18.7 Deferred consideration relates to sums due from the vendor.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 105 Notes to the financial statements 22 Acquisitions continued The goodwill of 17.3m represents the benefits that the Group expects to gain from strengthening its competitive position in mainland Europe, adding new niche services to the Groups portfolio of services, gaining access to a sales force in strategically important countries and strengthening the relationship with BASF globally.
The other intangible assets of 3.0m represent value placed on customer relationships and the deferred tax thereon was 0.3m.
The revenue for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 March 2010 was 5.4m.
The revenue attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010 was 16.9m.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 March 2010 was 0.4m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010 was 1.1m.
b Other acquisitions There were six other acquisitions.
Norca Ingenieria fide Calidad, S. L The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Norca Ingenieria fide Calidad, S. L Norca, a company based in Spain, on 4 May 2010, for a cash consideration of 4.3m.
Cash acquired in the business was 0.5m.
This represents the opportunity for the Group to increase its portfolio of services in the engineering and inspection of nuclear plants.
The other intangible assets of 0.8m arising on the acquisition represent value placed on customer relationships and the deferred tax thereon was 0.2m.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 4 May 2010 was 0.2m.
The profit attributable to the Group from 5 May 2010 to 31 December 2010 was 0.2m.
Expertises Technologies & Services Analyses S. A On 1 July 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Expertises Technologies & Services Analyses S. A ETSA, a company based in France, for a cash consideration of 7.5m.
An adjustment of 0.2m was outstanding at 31 December 2010.
Cash acquired in the business was 1.4m.
ETSA provides cargo inspection and testing services for the oil and gas industry.
The acquisition represents the opportunity for Intertek to reinforce its laboratory testing capabilities in France and brings niche expertise in lubricant testing to complement Interteks current services in this area.
The other intangible assets of 0.9m arising on the acquisition represent value placed on customer relationships and the deferred tax thereon was 0.3m.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 1 July 2010 was 0.4m.
The profit attributable to the Group from 2 July 2010 to 31 December 2010 was 0.3m.
Metoc Limited The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Metoc Limited, a company based in the United Kingdom, on 27 October 2010, for a cash consideration of 7.5m and additional estimated deferred consideration of 0.9m.
Metoc originally provided oceanographic and meteorological services to the oil and gas industry and has expanded its customer base to renewable energy providers offshore wind, wave, tidal, water utilities and power connection and distribution companies.
Cash acquired within the business was 2.1m.
This acquisition will strengthen the Industrial Services division and represents the opportunity for Intertek to increase its portfolio of services in renewable energy.
The other intangible assets provisionally of 0.7m arising on the acquisition represent value placed on customer relationships and an existing order book and the deferred tax thereon was 0.2m.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 27 October 2010 was 0.5m.
The profit attributable to the Group from 28 October 2010 to 31 December 2010 was 0.1m.
Profitech Limited The Group acquired, on 1 October 2010, 100% of the share capital of Profitech Limited, a company based in the United Kingdom, that provides mathematical modelling services to the Energy industry and will form part of the Analytical Services division.
The initial cash consideration was 0.5m with additional consideration of up to 0.6m payable contingent on the achievement of specified targets.
Cash acquired in the business was 0.2m.
The other intangible assets of 0.6m arising on the acquisition represent value placed on licences and patents and the deferred tax thereon was 0.2m.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 30 September 2010 was nil.
The profit attributable to the Group from 1 October 2010 to 31 December 2010 was 0.1m.
Pacifica Limited The Group acquired, on 10 November 2010, the business and assets of Pacifica Limited, a company based in Papua New Guinea that provides petroleum and agricultural inspections and marine consultancy services and will form part of the Minerals division.
The other intangible assets of 0.4m relate to the value placed on customer relationships.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 9 November 2010 was 0.2m.
The profit attributable to the Group from 10 November 2010 to 31 December 2010 was nil.
American Analytical Chemistry Laboratories Corporation The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of American Analytical Chemistry Laboratories Corporation, a company based in Illinois, USA, on 31 December 2010, for an initial cash consideration of 4.5m: and additional deferred consideration of between 0.1m and 0.5m.
Cash acquired in the business was 0.4m.
This represents the opportunity for the Consumer Goods division to build on its strategy of developing a network of laboratories of centralised chemical and localised microbiological food testing in North America.
The other intangible assets provisionally of 0.7m arising on the acquisition represent value placed on customer relationships.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 was 0.4m.
No profit was attributed to the Group in 2010. c Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits In total the acquisitions made during the year contributed revenues of 24.1m and attributable profits of 1.8m to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2010.
106 Intertek Annual Report 2010 22 Acquisitions continued The Group revenue and profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2010 would have been 1,395.4m and 145.0m respectively if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2010. d Details of 2009 acquisitions The Group made three acquisitions during 2009, all of which were paid for in cash.
The net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.1 0.3 Goodwill 19.4 19.4 Other intangible assets 4.5 4.5 Trade and other receivables 10.6 10.6 Trade and other payables 3.6 3.6 Tax payable 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax liability 0.4 0.4 0.8 Net assets acquired 6.3 23.4 29.7 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 23.9 Contingent and deferred consideration 5.8 Total consideration 29.7 The 2009 reported figures have been adjusted for movements in 2010.
Goodwill has been decreased by 1.0m, from the previously reported figure of 20.4m to 19.4m as contingent and deferred consideration decreased by 1.1m from the previously reported figure of 6.9m to 5.8m.
There was also 0.1m fair value adjustment to property, plant and equipment decreasing the previously reported figure of 0.4m to 0.3m.
The other intangible assets of 4.5m represent the value placed on client relationships and certification marks.
i The largest acquisition was the purchase on 13 February 2009, of 100% of the share capital of the WISco group of companies WISco, the largest of which is registered in the USA.
WISco specialises in providing third party inspection, expediting and coordination services to customers in the oil and gas industry.
Cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, was 20.5m.
Cash acquired within the business was 0.4m.
This acquisition expands the Intertek technical inspection business, providing it with a global platform and network.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Goodwill 12.4 12.4 Other intangible assets 3.2 3.2 Trade and other receivables 6.2 6.2 Trade and other payables 1.7 1.7 Net assets acquired 4.5 15.6 20.1 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 20.1 Contingent consideration Total consideration 20.1 The goodwill of 12.4m represents the benefit that Intertek expects to gain from leveraging the relationship with WISco customers and gain global contracts for a combined service offering.
The other intangible assets of 3.2m represent the value placed on client relationships.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 12 February 2009 was 0.2m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009 is 1.0m.
ii The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Aptech Engineering Services, Inc. Aptech a company based in California, USA, on 10 February 2009, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 3.9m and additional consideration of up to 6.9m payable contingent on the achievement of specified profit targets.
Aptech is a full-service engineering consultancy company that specialises in the life management of facilities, equipment, and infrastructure for clients in energy-related industries.
This acquisition will strengthen the service offering of Interteks Industrial Services division.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 107 Notes to the financial statements 22 Acquisitions continued Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Goodwill 8.0 8.0 Other intangible assets 1.2 1.2 Trade and other receivables 4.4 4.4 Trade and other payables 1.9 1.9 Tax payable 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax liability 0.4 0.4 0.8 Net assets acquired 1.6 8.8 10.4 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 3.5 Contingent consideration 6.9 Total consideration 10.4 The goodwill of 8.0m represents the opportunity for Intertek to enter the US market for risk based inspection and specialist asset integrity services.
The other intangible assets of 1.2m represent value placed on client relationships and the deferred tax thereon was 0.4m.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 9 February 2009 was 0.1m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009 is 0.9m.
iii The other acquisition was that of the business and assets of Sagentia Catella AB Sagentia.
Sagentia, acquired on 30 April 2009, is an independent testing laboratory based in Sweden providing battery testing, battery forensics and battery application advisory services.
The cash consideration was 0.3m representing acquisition of fixed assets for 0.2m and 0.1m for intangibles relating to the value placed on customer relationships.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 29 April 2009 was 8,000.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009 was 30,000. iv On 12 February 2009, the Group acquired an additional 34% interest in Intertek Metering and Measurement Limited formerly known as Rhomax-ITS Limited for 0.6m in cash, increasing its ownership from 66% to 100%.
The carrying amount of the net assets of Rhomax on the date of acquisition was 0.4m.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interest of 0.1m and a decrease in retained earnings of 0.5m.
All the acquisitions made during the year contributed revenues of 24.1m and attributable profits of 1.9m to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2009.
The Group revenue and profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2009 would have been 1,247m and 124m respectively if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2009.
23 Share schemes a Share option schemes The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997.
The maximum number of options that can be granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued.
In May 2002, the Intertek Group plc 2002 Share Option Plan the 2002 Plan and the Intertek Group plc 2002 Approved Share Option Plan the Approved Plan were established for employees to be granted share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
These plans have also been discontinued and the last grants under these plans were made in September 2005. i The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number exercise Number price of options price of options At beginning of year 646p 813,457 642p 1,392,623 Exercised 599p 423,749 634p 569,428 Forfeited 769p 10,361 773p 9,738 Outstanding options at end of year 631p 379,347 646p 813,457 Exercisable at end of year 631p 379,347 646p 813,457 108 Intertek Annual Report 2010 23 Share schemes continued The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 1,534p 2009: 1,040p.
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 359p to 778p and a weighted average contractual life of 3.6 years.
The first awards were granted on 7 April 2006.
The awards under this plan vest three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment of the performance conditions.
During the year 19,166 shares vested and 2,940 shares lapsed.
At 31 December 2010, there were 26,933 shares outstanding.
Details of the share option schemes, the Deferred Bonus Share Plan and the mirror share awards are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 65. d Equity-settled transactions In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for shares and share options granted to employees, is measured by reference to the fair value of shares and share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Monte Carlo formula, a financial model used to calculate the fair value of shares and share options.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group recognised an expense of 7.4m 2009: 4.9m in respect of outstanding share and share option awards granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 109 Notes to the financial statements 23 Share schemes continued The fair values and the assumptions used in their calculations are set out below: Share awards Deferred Matching Deferred Matching Deferred Matching Deferred Matching shares shares shares shares shares shares shares shares Date shares awarded 10 April 10 April 11 April 11 April 10 Mar 2009 & 10 Mar 2009 & 9 March 9 March 2007 2007 2008 2008 2 April 2009 2 April 2009 2010 2010 Fair value at measurement date pence 887.6 498.8 906.9 619.8 839.3 697.8 1,249.5 854.7 Share price pence 931.0 931.0 959.5 959.5 899.5 899.5 1,324.0 1,324.0 Expected volatility n a 21.4% n a 22.8% n a 29.1% n a 30.8% Dividend yield 1.6% 1.6% 1.9% 1.9% 2.3% 2.3% 1.9% 1.9% Risk free interest rate n a 5.4% n a 3.9% n a 1.8% n a 3.0% Time to maturity years 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The deferred and matching shares, under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan, are granted under a service condition.
Such condition is not taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
The matching shares, issued under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan, are also granted under a performance related market condition and as a result this condition is taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
24 Financial instruments Details of the Groups treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital and credit, liquidity, interest rate and currency risk are set out in the Directors Report Financial Review on pages 27 to 29 and Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 38 to 41. a Credit risk i Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Trade receivables, net of allowance 235.7 203.7 Cash and cash equivalents 217.0 134.2 Total 452.7 337.9 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Americas 74.8 73.9 Europe, Middle East and Africa 85.9 71.8 Asia Pacific 75.0 58.0 Total 235.7 203.7 110 Intertek Annual Report 2010 24 Financial instruments continued ii Impairment losses The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Under 3 months 205.2 173.5 Between 3 and 6 months 21.8 22.7 Between 6 and 12 months 11.7 10.8 Over 12 months 7.3 6.6 Gross trade receivables 246.0 213.6 Allowance for impairment 10.3 9.9 Trade receivables, net of allowance 235.7 203.7 Included in trade receivables under three months of 205.2m 2009: 173.5m are trade receivables of 118.2m 2009: 101.1m which are not yet due for payment under the Groups standard terms and conditions of sale.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables m m At 1 January 9.9 10.0 Exchange differences 0.3 0.6 Cash recovered 0.4 0.4 Impairment loss recognised 4.8 6.2 Receivables written off 4.3 5.3 At 31 December 10.3 9.9 There were no significant individual impairments of trade receivables.
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
The Group assesses periodically the creditworthiness of customers.
The Groups credit risk is diversified due to the large number of entities that make up the Groups customer base and the diversification across many different industries and geographic regions.
Allowance for impairment is based on the risk profile of the trade receivable based on the likelihood of the amount being recovered.
Based on historic default rates, reflecting the track record of payments by the Groups customers, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are specific circumstances such as the bankruptcy of a customer which would render the trade receivable irrecoverable.
The Group provides fully for all trade receivables over 12 months old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable.
Where recovery is in doubt, a provision is made against the specific trade receivable until such time as the Group believes the amount to be irrecoverable.
At that time the trade receivable is written off.
iii Counterparty Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties who have sound credit ratings.
Given this, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
b Liquidity risk The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups senior term loans and notes at 31 December 2010.
Carrying 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 amount Liabilities 2010 m m m m m m m Floating rate USD 93.6 93.6 Average interest rate 0.6% Fixed rate USD 15.9 64.5 209.6 290.0 Average interest rate 7.5% 5.5% 4.6% Total 93.6 15.9 64.5 209.6 383.6 The other borrowings of 3.1m 2009: 3.7m, relate to a variable rate loan denominated in Australian dollars with a contractual maturity of November 2013.
The current variable rate is 6.3% 2009: 4.6%.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 111 Notes to the financial statements 24 Financial instruments continued The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups senior term loans at 31 December 2009.
Carrying 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 amount Liabilities 2009 m m m m m m Floating rate USD 8.2 78.3 86.5 Average interest rate 1.4% 0.8% Fixed rate USD 15.6 109.6 125.2 Average interest rate 7.5% 6.6% Floating rate GBP 94.0 94.0 Average interest rate 0.9% Floating rate AUD 26.2 26.2 Average interest rate 4.4% Total 8.2 198.5 15.6 109.6 331.9 The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities including interest: Carrying Contractual Six months More than amount cash flows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years 2010 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Senior term loans and notes 383.6 477.6 7.5 101.1 14.5 119.8 234.7 Other loans 3.1 4.0 0.1 0.1 0.2 3.0 0.6 Trade payables 36.7 36.7 36.7 423.4 518.3 44.3 101.2 14.7 122.8 235.3 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2 Forward exchange contracts: Outflow 34.2 34.2 Inflow 34.2 34.2 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2 Total 424.4 519.3 45.1 101.4 14.7 122.8 235.3 93.6m of the senior term loan contractually liable to be repaid in six to twelve months was repaid in February 2011.
Carrying Contractual Six months More than amount cash flows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years 2009 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Senior term loans and notes 331.9 385.5 5.6 13.7 209.5 39.7 117.0 Other loans 3.7 4.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 3.6 0.5 Trade payables 32.2 32.2 32.2 367.8 422.2 37.9 13.8 209.7 43.3 117.5 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps for hedging 3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 Forward exchange contracts: Outflow 28.4 28.4 Inflow 28.4 28.4 3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 Total 370.8 425.2 39.1 15.0 210.3 43.3 117.5 112 Intertek Annual Report 2010 24 Financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and expected to impact the profit or loss.
Interest rate swaps liabilities Carrying Expected Six months More than amount cash outflows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years m m m m m m m 2010 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2 2009 3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 c Interest rate risk i Hedging The Group assesses and monitors its interest rate risk.
The Group has entered into swaps to maintain an appropriate level of fixed and floating rate interest payments.
Under the interest rate swap agreements, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
During the year, the Group increased its proportion of fixed rate debt, repaying its floating rate debt.
On repayment of the floating rate debt, the interest rate swaps attached to the relevant tranche of debt became ineffective.
Consequently, an amount of 1.9m 2009: nil was recycled to the income statement from the hedging reserve.
The remaining swaps mature over the next year and have fixed swap rates ranging from 3.3% to 3.8%.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had interest rate swaps with a notional contract amount of 64.6m 2009: 88.5m.
The net fair value of swaps at 31 December 2010 was 1.0m 2009: 3.0m comprising liabilities of 1.0m 2009: 3.0m.
These amounts were recognised as fair value derivatives.
ii Profile The information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings is shown in section b liquidity risk.
The interest rate profile of the Groups short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2010 is set out below: Total carrying At floating amount and Effective interest rates Interest free fair value Assets 2010 interest rates m m m Short-term deposits and cash : Sterling 0.30% 3.3 0.7 4.0 US dollar 0.20% 109.8 2.7 112.5 Chinese renminbi 0.80% 52.2 0.4 52.6 Hong Kong dollar 0.03% 2.3 0.4 2.7 Euro 0.25% 8.7 1.9 10.6 Other currencies Various 14.9 19.7 34.6 Total cash and cash equivalents 191.2 25.8 217.0 Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
The interest rate profile of the Groups short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2009 was as follows: Total carrying At floating amount and Effective interest rates Interest free fair value Assets 2009 interest rates m m m Short-term deposits and cash : Sterling 0.40% 5.2 0.7 5.9 US dollar 0.20% 31.7 3.6 35.3 Chinese renminbi 0.50% 41.5 41.5 Hong Kong dollar 0.10% 6.7 0.4 7.1 Euro 0.30% 7.7 1.3 9.0 Other currencies Various 16.1 19.3 35.4 Total cash and cash equivalents 108.9 25.3 134.2 Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 113 Notes to the financial statements 24 Financial instruments continued iii Sensitivity At 31 December 2010, it is estimated that a general increase of 3% in interest rates would decrease the Groups profit before tax by approximately 0.4m 2009: 0.5m.
Interest rate swaps have been included in this calculation.
This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant.
d Foreign currency risk The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Groups shareholders funds and a substantial percentage of the Groups revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling.
Because of the high proportion of international activity, the Groups profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
Two types of risk arise as a result: i translation risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets and liabilities into sterling and ii transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on the value of the Groups commercial cash flows in various currencies.
i Profile The foreign currency profile of the trade receivables and payables at the reporting date were as follows: Carrying US Chinese Hong Kong Other amount Sterling dollar renminbi dollar Euro currencies 2010 m m m m m m m Trade receivables 235.7 25.8 65.2 23.6 9.4 32.8 78.9 Trade payables 36.7 9.1 6.2 2.5 1.5 7.7 9.7 2009 Trade receivables 203.7 25.4 60.9 19.4 8.9 28.0 61.1 Trade payables 32.2 6.5 6.4 2.6 2.0 6.1 8.6 ii Recognised assets and liabilities Changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement.
At 31 December 2010, the fair value of forward exchange contracts was nil 2009: nil.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries The Groups foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Groups investment in its respective subsidiaries.
The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2010 was 383.6m 2009: 237.9m.
A foreign exchange loss of 6.3m 2009: gain of 27.2m was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these loans to sterling.
iv Sensitivity It is estimated that a general increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the US dollar the main currency impacting the Group would have decreased the Groups profit before tax for 2010 by approximately 13.8m 2009: 15.8m.
The forward exchange contracts have been included in this calculation.
e Fair values The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Groups financial instruments by class.
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 217.0 217.0 134.2 134.2 Trade receivables 235.7 235.7 203.7 203.7 Total financial assets 452.7 452.7 337.9 337.9 Financial liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 386.7 397.3 335.6 349.8 Interest rate swaps 1.0 1.0 3.0 3.0 Trade payables 36.7 36.7 32.2 32.2 Total financial liabilities 424.4 435.0 370.8 385.0 114 Intertek Annual Report 2010 24 Financial instruments continued f Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 liabilities 31 December 2010 m m m m Interest rate swaps 1.0 1.0 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 liabilities 31 December 2009 m m m m Interest rate swaps 3.0 3.0 The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of the Groups financial instruments are summarised below.
i Interest rate swaps Bank valuations are used to estimate the fair value of interest rate swaps.
Valuations are tested by considering the equivalent swap rate as at 31 December and calculating the difference in interest earned at this rate compared to the original swap rates.
ii Forward exchange contracts The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their quoted market price, if available.
If a quoted market price is not available, the fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest rate.
iii Interest bearing loans and borrowings The fair value of the floating interest bearing loans and borrowings is equal to the book value, since the floating interest rates were reset just prior to the year end.
The fair value of the fixed interest bearing loans and borrowings has been calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate at the reporting date.
iv Trade receivables and payables For trade receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All others are estimated as the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
v Available-for-sale financial assets The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to their quoted closing bid price at the reporting date.
vi Interest rates used for determining fair value Prevailing market interest rates at the reporting date are used to discount future cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
g Capital management The Group actively monitors the financial capital of the Group to maintain a robust capital base to ensure that market and key stakeholders retain confidence in the capital profile.
This is discussed in more detail in the Financial Review on page 29.
25 Analysis of net debt 1 January Exchange 31 December 2010 Cash flow adjustments 2010 m m m m Cash 134.2 76.5 6.3 217.0 Borrowings 335.6 44.4 6.7 386.7 Total net debt 201.4 32.1 0.4 169.7 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk, currency risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 24.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 115 Notes to the financial statements 26 Contingent liabilities 2010 2009 m m Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 7.4 5.8 Covered by cash collateral of 0.3m 2009: 0.5m.
Litigation From time to time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including claims for damages, negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing and disputes with employees and former employees.
The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business.
The outcome of litigation to which the Intertek Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen as in some cases the facts are unclear or further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case.
However, based on information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
Tax The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to a wide range of complex tax laws and regulations.
At any point in time it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local authorities.
Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable: but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in the financial statements.
27 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not discussed in this note.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel compensation, including the Groups Directors, is shown in the table below: 2010 2009 m m Short-term benefits 6.2 5.6 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.3 Equity-settled transactions 2.3 1.5 Total 8.9 7.4 More detailed information concerning Directors remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
116 Intertek Annual Report 2010 28 Subsequent events In February 2011, the Group successfully negotiated the refinancing of the Senior Bank Facility.
29 Principal operating subsidiaries The Group comprises 219 subsidiary companies.
As permitted by Section 410 1 of the Companies Act 2006, only the holding companies and the principal subsidiaries whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures of the Group in 2010 and 2009 have been shown below.
A full list of subsidiaries will be attached to the Companys next Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
All the subsidiaries shown were consolidated at 31 December 2010.
Percentage of ordinary shares held in 2010 and 2009 Company name Country of incorporation Activity by division Group Company Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100 Intertek Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100 Intertek Testing Services UK Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 Intertek Overseas Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 Intertek UK Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 Intertek Finance plc England and Wales Finance 100 Intertek Testing Management Limited England and Wales Management company 100 Intertek International Limited England and Wales OCA, IS 100 ITS Testing Services UK Limited England and Wales OCA, AS 100 Intertek Australia Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100 Intertek Testing Services Australia Pty Limited Australia OCA 100 Genalysis Laboratory Services Pty Limited Australia M 100 Intertek do Brasil Inspecoes Ltda Brazil CG, OCA 100 ITS Testing Holdings Canada Limited Canada Holding company 100 Intertek Testing Services ITS Canada Limited Canada OCA 100 Intertek Testing Services Limited China CG, C&E, OCA, IS, M 85 Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited China CG, C&E, IS 100 Testing Holdings France EURL France Holding company 100 Intertek Testing Services France SARL France CG 100 Intertek Testing Services Pacific Limited Hong Kong Holding company 100 Labtest Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Holding company 100 ITS Hong Kong NA Limited Hong Kong CG, C&E, OCA, IS 100 Intertek Holdings Nederland BV Netherlands Holding company 100 Intertek Polychemlab BV Netherlands AS 100 Intertek West Lab AS Norway AS 100 Intertek Testing Services Singapore Pte Limited Singapore C&E, CG, IS, OCA 100 Testing Holdings Sweden AB Sweden Holding company 100 Intertek Semko AB Sweden C&E 100 Intertek Testing Services Taiwan Limited Taiwan CG, C&E, OCA 100 H. P. White Laboratory Inc USA C&E 100 Intertek Testing Services NA Inc USA C&E, IS 100 Intertek USA Finance LLC USA Finance 100 Intertek USA Inc USA OCA, AS, IS 100 Labtest International Inc USA CG 100 Testing Holdings USA Inc USA Holding company 100 Consumer Goods CG, Commercial & Electrical C&E, Oil, Chemical & Agri OCA, Analytical Services AS, Industrial Services IS and Minerals M. Intertek Annual Report 2010 117 Intertek Group plc Company Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Notes m m Fixed assets Investments in subsidiary undertakings d 295.2 289.6 Current assets Debtors due after more than one year e 43.6 20.6 Debtors due within one year f 1.7 0.8 45.3 21.4 Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 0.8 45.5 22.2 Creditors due within one year Other creditors g 0.2 0.3 Net current assets 45.3 21.9 Total assets less current liabilities 340.5 311.5 Creditors due after more than one year Other creditors h 0.1 0.1 Net assets 340.4 311.4 Capital and reserves Called up share capital i 1.6 1.6 Share premium i 256.3 253.5 Profit and loss account i 82.5 56.3 Shareholders funds 340.4 311.4 The financial statements on pages 118 to 121 were approved by the Board on 4 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Wolfhart Hauser Lloyd Pitchford Director Director 118 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements a Accounting policies Company The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated accounts which it has prepared.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments, or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders funds are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders funds Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intercompany financial guarantees When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability, until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
In order to encourage share ownership, a share option scheme for senior management was established in March 1997.
This option programme was discontinued in 2006 and was replaced by a new Long Term Incentive Plan.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 119 Notes to the Company financial statements a Accounting policies Company continued The fair value of options and share awards granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the corresponding increase in equity.
However, the Company grants options and awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and therefore the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries, equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in respect of employees of the subsidiaries, with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value granted is measured using the Monte Carlo model.
This method, in calculating the fair value, takes into account various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan is also measured using the Monte Carlo model and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
See note 23 in the Group financial statements for further information on the share schemes.
b Profit and loss account Amounts paid to the Companys auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
c Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2010 2009 m m Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 27.6 21.7 Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 14.9 13.0 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 42.5 34.7 The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2010 is nil 2009: nil.
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2010 is 30m 2009: 27.5m.
d Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2010 2009 m m Cost and net book value At 1 January 289.6 284.7 Additions due to share-based payments 7.4 4.9 Disposals 1.8 At 31 December 295.2 289.6 Relates to the closure of the captive, Leeward Insurance Company Limited.
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made share awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly owned subsidiaries, and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of 7.4m 2009: 4.9m.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 29 to the Group financial statements.
The Company had two direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2010.
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and Intertek Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
All interests are in the ordinary share capital and all are wholly owned.
In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
e Debtors due after more than one year 2010 2009 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 43.6 20.6 The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing currency.
120 Intertek Annual Report 2010 f Debtors due within one year 2010 2009 m m Corporation tax 0.7 0.4 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1.0 0.4 Total debtors due within one year 1.7 0.8 g Creditors due within one year 2010 2009 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 0.1 Accruals and deferred income 0.2 0.2 Total creditors due within one year 0.2 0.3 h Creditors due after more than one year 2010 2009 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 0.1 0.1 The amounts owed to Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing currency.
i Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Share Share Profit capital premium and loss Total m m m m At 1 January 2009 1.6 249.9 36.4 287.9 Profit for the financial year 49.7 49.7 Dividends paid 34.7 34.7 Credit in relation to share-based payments 4.9 4.9 Shares issued 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2009 1.6 253.5 56.3 311.4 Profit for the financial year 61.8 61.8 Dividends paid 42.5 42.5 Credit in relation to share-based payments 7.4 7.4 Purchase of own shares 0.5 0.5 Shares issued 2.8 2.8 At 31 December 2010 1.6 256.3 82.5 340.4 Details of share capital are set out in note 18 and details of share-based payments are set out in note 23 to the Group financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of 42.5m 2009: 34.7m was 61.8m 2009: 49.7m which was mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company purchased 31,000 of its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of 310 for 0.5m which was debited to profit and loss in equity.
j Related party transactions Detailed of related party transactions are set out in note 27 of the Group financial statements.
k Contingent liabilities The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement.
This is a joint and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the pool which was 14.1m at 31 December 2010 2009: 11.4m.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of subsidiary undertakings.
l Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and the Group are given in note 28 of the Group financial statements.
