Intertek Operations Committee 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Intertek Operations Committee The day-to-day management of the Group is undertaken by the Intertek Operations Committee IOC.
The IOC currently comprises the three Executive Directors, the six Executive Vice Presidents, who head up the operating divisions and the Vice President of Human Resources.
44 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Governance www.
com 01 Wolfhart Hauser 07 Andrew Swift Chief Executive Officer Division Executive Vice President Analytical Services See Board of Directors.
Joined Intertek in 2001 Prior to assuming his current role, in January 2008, Andrew Swift was 02 Lloyd Pitchford Vice President of Global Outsourcing within Interteks Oil, Chemical Chief Financial Officer & Agri division, having originally started as Business Development See Board of Directors.
Manager and then Director of Global Outsourcing.
Andrew began his career by launching CSMA Ltd, where he became Managing Director 03 Mark Loughead in 1993.
Chief Operating Officer Through 2011 Mark is transitioning to retirement.
Mark served as a 08 Gregg Tiemann member of the Board and as Chief Operating Officer of Intertek Group Division Executive Vice President plc from January 2008 to December 2010.
Previously he was Chief Commercial & Electrical Executive of Interteks Oil, Chemical & Agri division with an earlier role Joined Intertek in 1993 as Vice President of the division.
Mark began his career with Intertek in Prior to assuming his current role in January 2008 Gregg Tiemann was 1993 when he joined as Operations Manager in Liverpool.
Before joining President of Interteks Commercial & Electrical division in Europe and Intertek, he spent 13 years at Inspectorate including six years in the the Americas since 2004, having started as General Manager of the Middle East.
Los Angeles and Mexico City laboratories in 1993.
Before joining Intertek, Gregg worked in sales and marketing for the software industry.
04 Paul Yao Group Executive Vice President 09 Jay Gutierrez Joined Intertek in 1994 Division Executive Vice President Paul Yao was appointed a member of the Executive management team Oil, Chemical & Agri on 1 July 2006.
Prior to this, from January 2003 he was Vice President Joined Intertek in 1997 with responsibility for Consumer Goods in China and Taiwan.
Before Jay Gutierrez assumed his current role in January 2008 and incorporated joining Intertek, Paul worked in regional sales and marketing for Government Services in January 2009.
Previously, he was Vice President companies such as Hitachi Chemical, Brent Plc and SISIR Singapore.
for the Oil, Chemical and Agri division in the Americas.
Jay began his career with Intertek with a focus to develop the Chemical business 05 Stefan Butz stream, later assuming responsibility for International Coordination Group Executive Vice President and Sales & Marketing.
Prior to joining Intertek he spent eight years Industrial Services as General Manager for C. J. Thibodeaux, Inc.
Joined Intertek in 2008 In addition to Industrial Services, Stefan Butz has responsibility for the 10 Marc Hoffer Group functions of Strategy, Corporate Development and Marketing.
Division Executive Vice President Stefan has held this role since January 2008, when he Joined Intertek Minerals from TV SD, where he was CEO America with an earlier role as Head Joined Intertek in 2005 of Corporate Development.
Prior to this he was a Strategy Consultant Marc Hoffer assumed his current role in January 2008 in addition with Accenture Germany.
to continued responsibility for Interteks Oil, Chemical & Agri division in Asia.
Prior to joining Intertek Marc spent 13 years at SGS, part of 06 Jonathan Lawrence the time as Country Manager of Taiwan, Brazil and Switzerland and Group Executive Vice President part as Regional Financial Controller for Asia and Europe.
Human Resources Joined Intertek in 2005 Jonathan has many years experience as an international human resources director and of the testing and inspection business based from the UK, France and the USA.
Before moving to Intertek, he was Group Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Bureau Veritas and prior to this he was Group Director Management Development at Valeo Automotive.
