Shareholder Information Shareholders Enquiries Any shareholder with enquiries relating to their shareholding Financial Calendar should, in the first instance, contact our Registrars, Equiniti using the address overleaf.
Financial year end 31 December 2010 Results announced 7 March 2011 Electronic Shareholder Communications Annual General Meeting 20 May 2011 Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation Ex-dividend date for final dividend 1 June 2011 electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by email Record date for final dividend 3 June 2011 each time the Company distributes documents, instead of receiving Final dividend payable 17 June 2011 a paper version of such documents.
Registering for electronic communication is very straightforward and can be done via shareview, Interim results announced 1 August 2011 www.
Shareview is Equinitis suite of online services Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 2 November 2011 that helps shareholders to manage their holdings and gives access to Record date for interim dividend 4 November 2011 a wide range of useful information.
Interim dividend payable 18 November 2011 There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically receive confirmation that a request has been registered.
Should you wish to change your mind or request a paper version of any documents in the future, you may do so by contacting the Registrar by email or by post.
The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding details, find out how to register a change of name or what to do if a share certificate is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes of address, dividend mandates and share transfers.
Share dealing service A share dealing service for the purchase or sale of shares in Intertek is available through J. P. Morgan Cazenove, whose details are as follows: J. P. Morgan Cazenove 10 Aldermanbury 2nd Floor London EC2V 7RF T: 44 20 7155 5338 ShareGift If you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell, you may want to consider donating it to ShareGift.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation scheme.
Details of the scheme are available from: ShareGift at www.
Share price information Information on the Companys share price is available from the investor pages of www.
