Contents of the Group Financial Statements 56 Independent auditors report to the 122 31 Reconciliation of cash flows shareholders of Invensys plc 122 32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals 124 33 Directors loan and pension commutation 57 Consolidated income statement 124 34 Related party disclosures 125 35 Dividends paid and proposed 58 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 125 36 Events after the balance sheet date 125 37 Exchange rates 59 Consolidated balance sheet 60 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 62 Consolidated cash flow statement 63 Accounting policies 71 Notes to the Financial Statements 71 1 General information 71 2 Operating segment information 75 3 Operating profit and analysis of revenue 76 4 Group operating profit 76 5 Fees for audit and other services 76 6 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense 77 7 Foreign exchange on financial items 77 8 Total finance costs and finance income 78 9 Taxation 79 10 Discontinued operations 80 11 Earnings loss per share 81 12 Property, plant and equipment 82 13 Intangible assets goodwill 84 14 Intangible assets other 84 15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 85 16 Other financial assets 86 17 Inventories 86 18 Amounts due from to contract customers 87 19 Trade and other receivables 88 20 Cash and cash equivalents 89 21 Borrowings 90 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments 96 23 Assets held for sale 97 24 Provisions 98 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits 108 26 Trade and other payables 108 27 Issued share capital 110 28 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves 111 29 Share-based payment plans 120 30 Commitments and contingencies | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Invensys plc 1 We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Invensys plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the consolidated Companies Act 2006 income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive In our opinion: income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement the information given in the Directors Report for the financial ofchanges in equity, consolidated cash flow statement and the year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent related Notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that with the Group Financial Statements: and hasbeen applied in their preparation is applicable law and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted set out on pages 31 to 37 with respect to internal control and bythe European Union.
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, processes and about share capital structures is consistent with in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the Group Financial Statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might stateto the Companys members those matters we are required Matters on which we are required to report by exception tostate to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Tothe fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you assumeresponsibility to anyone other than the Company and if, in our opinion: theCompanys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors we have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors require for our audit: or Responsibilities set out on page 54, the directors are responsible a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for the Company.
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: is to audit the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing concern: and Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance report on pages 31 to 37 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions Scope of the audit of the Group Financial Statements ofthe June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements sufficient to give Other matter reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements are We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial freefrom material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 and error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and ashaving been audited.
havebeen consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Richard Addison Senior statutory auditor thedirectors: and the overall presentation of the Group for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor FinancialStatements.
London 23 May 2010 Opinion on Group Financial Statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at31March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of theCompanies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Note 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Invensys plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
| 56 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Consolidated income statement 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 March Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue 2,3 2,243 2,284 Operating expenses before exceptional items 1,995 2,040 Operating profit before exceptional items 2,3 248 244 Exceptional items 3 25 66 Operating profit 223 178 Foreign exchange on financial items 7 Exceptional finance costs 8 1 Finance costs 8 10 12 Total finance costs 10 13 Exceptional finance income 8 27 Finance income 8 3 8 Total finance income 8 3 35 Other finance charges IAS 19 25 37 35 Profit before taxation 179 165 Taxation UK 9 3 6 Taxation overseas 9 29 29 Profit after taxation continuing operations 153 142 Loss after taxation discontinued operations 10 2 9 Profit for the year 151 133 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 147 130 Minority interests 4 3 151 133 Earnings loss per share Continuing operations Earnings per share basic 11 18.5p 17.4p Earnings per share diluted 11 18.4p 17.2p Discontinued operations Loss per share basic 11 0.2 p 1.1 p Loss per share diluted 11 0.2 p 1.1 p Total Group Earnings per share basic 11 18.3p 16.3p Earnings per share diluted 11 18.1p 16.1p | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 March Notes m m Profit for the year 151 133 Other comprehensive income Net gains on valuation of available-for-sale investments: Gains taken to equity 25 Transferred to income statement for the year 25 Cash flow hedges: Gains losses taken to equity 1 8 Transferred to income statement for the year cost of sales 22 3 4 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 7 133 Actuarial loss gain recognised on defined benefit pension schemes 25 389 10 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 25 56 20 Other comprehensive loss income for the year, net of tax 342 119 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 191 252 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 195 233 Minority interests 4 19 191 252 | 58 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Consolidated balance sheet 2010 2009 At 31 March Notes m m ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 12 274 305 Intangible assets goodwill 13 301 306 Intangible assets other 14 133 123 Deferred income tax assets 15 27 32 Other receivables 19 26 21 Other financial assets 16 1 1 762 788 Current assets Inventories 17 157 164 Amounts due from contract customers 18 180 236 Trade and other receivables 19 510 524 Cash and cash equivalents 20 364 296 Income tax receivable 8 4 Other financial assets 16 23 Derivative financial instruments 22 3 2 1,222 1,249 Assets held for sale 23 6 1 TOTAL ASSETS 1,990 2,038 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Borrowings 21 1 1 Provisions 24 100 111 Income tax payable 33 32 Deferred income tax liabilities 15 12 15 Amounts due to contract customers 18 40 42 Other payables 26 10 12 Pension liabilities 25 581 308 777 521 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 26 529 510 Amounts due to contract customers 18 158 219 Borrowings 21 9 Derivative financial instruments 22 9 4 Income tax payable 18 35 Provisions 24 79 100 793 877 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,570 1,398 NET ASSETS 420 640 Capital and reserves Equity share capital 27 81 80 Treasury shares 27 2 1 Other reserves 28 2,546 2,555 Retained earnings 2,285 2,081 Equity holders of parent 340 553 Minority interests 80 87 TOTAL EQUITY 420 640 These accounts were approved by the directors on 23 May 2010 and are signed on their behalf by: Sir Nigel Rudd U C I Henriksson W Edmunds Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other reserves Share Capital Cash flow Foreign Issued Treasury premium redemption Capital Special hedge exchange Total Attributable to capital shares account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve other Retained equity holders Minority Total 1 Note 27 Note 27 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 reserves earnings of the Parent interests equity Notes m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 Balance at 1 April 2009 80 1 348 1,582 495 4 134 2,555 2,081 553 87 640 Profit for the year 147 147 4 151 Other comprehensive loss for the year 2 7 9 333 342 342 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 2 7 9 186 195 4 191 Share-based payment 29 9 9 9 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 8 8 8 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 7 7 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35 20 20 20 Dividends paid to minority interests 2 2 2 Purchase of minority interests 9 9 Issue of share capital 27 1 1 1 Balance at 31 March 2010 81 2 348 1,582 495 6 127 2,546 2,285 340 80 420 2009 Balance at 1 April 2008 80 7 740 923 2,509 17 4,189 3,951 311 69 380 Profit for the year 130 130 3 133 Other comprehensive loss income for the year 4 117 113 10 103 16 119 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 4 117 113 120 233 19 252 Share-based payment 29 11 11 11 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 2 2 2 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 8 8 Dividends paid to minority interests 1 1 Capital reduction: Bonus issue of B shares 27,28 927 927 927 Cancellation of capital redemption reserve 28 923 923 923 Cancellation of B shares 28 927 927 Cancellation of share premium account 28 392 392 392 Transfer to special reserve 28 495 495 495 Balance at 31 March 2009 80 1 348 1,582 495 4 134 2,555 2,081 553 87 640 1 The majority of the minority interests balance relates to the interests of the minority in Baan Company NV in liquidation Baan.
2 Relates to the purchase of 3.67 million shares from minority shareholders of Baan.
| 60 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Other reserves Share Capital Cash flow Foreign Issued Treasury premium redemption Capital Special hedge exchange Total Attributable to capital shares account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve other Retained equity holders Minority Total 1 Note 27 Note 27 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 reserves earnings of the Parent interests equity Notes m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 Balance at 1 April 2009 80 1 348 1,582 495 4 134 2,555 2,081 553 87 640 Profit for the year 147 147 4 151 Other comprehensive loss for the year 2 7 9 333 342 342 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 2 7 9 186 195 4 191 Share-based payment 29 9 9 9 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 8 8 8 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 7 7 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35 20 20 20 Dividends paid to minority interests 2 2 2 Purchase of minority interests 9 9 Issue of share capital 27 1 1 1 Balance at 31 March 2010 81 2 348 1,582 495 6 127 2,546 2,285 340 80 420 2009 Balance at 1 April 2008 80 7 740 923 2,509 17 4,189 3,951 311 69 380 Profit for the year 130 130 3 133 Other comprehensive loss income for the year 4 117 113 10 103 16 119 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 4 117 113 120 233 19 252 Share-based payment 29 11 11 11 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 2 2 2 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 8 8 Dividends paid to minority interests 1 1 Capital reduction: Bonus issue of B shares 27,28 927 927 927 Cancellation of capital redemption reserve 28 923 923 923 Cancellation of B shares 28 927 927 Cancellation of share premium account 28 392 392 392 Transfer to special reserve 28 495 495 495 Balance at 31 March 2009 80 1 348 1,582 495 4 134 2,555 2,081 553 87 640 1 The majority of the minority interests balance relates to the interests of the minority in Baan Company NV in liquidation Baan.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 1 Consolidated cash flow statement 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 March Notes m m Operating activities Operating profit: Continuing operations 2,3 223 178 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 43 46 Amortisation of intangible assets other 14 22 22 Provision for impairment charged to operating profit 3 10 17 Loss on sale of assets and operations 2 5 1 PPP settlement proceeds 95 Sale of property, plant and equipment 1 3 Non-cash charge for share-based payment 29 9 11 Decrease in inventories 5 15 Decrease in receivables 6 111 Decrease in net amounts due to contract customers 9 69 Increase decrease in payables and provisions 1 33 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in operating profit 100 56 Cash generated from operations 216 341 Income taxes paid 41 34 Interest paid 9 8 Exceptional finance costs 1 Net cash flows from operating activities 166 298 Investing activities Interest received 4 10 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 34 32 Expenditure on intangible assets other 36 24 Purchase of minority interests 9 Purchase of subsidiaries 32 50 Sale of financial assets 16 32 Cost of sale of subsidiaries 32 12 20 Transfers of financial assets to from cash equivalents 13 13 Net cash acquired on purchase of subsidiaries 32 3 Cash flows from investing activities 74 94 Financing activities Purchase of Invensys plc shares 8 3 Facility fees paid 6 Transfers of treasury bonds to from cash equivalents 8 7 Repayment of short-term borrowings 8 Repayment of long-term borrowings 156 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent 19 Dividends paid to minority interests 2 1 Cash flows from financing activities 29 173 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 63 31 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 296 235 Net foreign exchange difference 5 30 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 20 364 296 1 Further information on the consolidated cash flow statement is set out in Note 31.
| 62 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Accounting policies Statement of compliance IAS 1 Revised Presentation of The Groups consolidated Financial Statements have been Financial Statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures Basis of preparation about Financial Instruments The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the Amendments to IAS 32 Puttable Financial Instruments and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The and IAS 1 Obligations Arising on Liquidation consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling and Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment all amounts are rounded to the nearest million m unless Vesting Conditions and Cancellations otherwise indicated.
Amendments to IFRS 1 Cost of an investment in The Groups date of transition to IFRSs was 1 April 2004. and IAS 27 a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate Basis of consolidation The consolidated Financial Statements comprise Invensys plc Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS and its subsidiaries for the financial year to 31 March each year.
Restructured November 2008 The Group does not currently have any material associates.
Improvements to IFRS Annual improvements May 2008 The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent Amendments to IFRIC 9 Embedded Derivatives accounting policies.
and IAS 39 All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are IFRIC 15 Agreements for the consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
Construction of Real Estate All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as of a Foreign Operation the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs The principal effects of these changes are as follows: directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements combination are measured initially at their fair values at the IAS 1 Revised makes various changes to the presentation of the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority primary Financial Statements and the terminology used by IFRS.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value The standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income, of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is which requires all items of recognised income and expense to be recorded as goodwill.
presented either in one single statement or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements, so In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time continues to present a separate income statement as in previous Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied years, and a second statement beginning with the profit for the by the Group on transition to IFRS, business combinations prior to period and displaying the components of other comprehensive IFRS transition have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3, income.
IAS 1 Revised also requires all entities to present a Business Combinations.
statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, including details of transactions with equity shareholders, with profit or loss Changes in accounting policies and other comprehensive income each shown as a single line with The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the details presented in separate statements.
previous financial year except as follows: Previously the Group has shown changes in equity arising from The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs transactions with equity shareholders in a note to the accounts.
As and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee permitted, the Group has not adopted all of the proposed revised IFRIC interpretations during the year.
All have been endorsed for IFRS terminology introduced by IAS 1 Revised.
For example, the use in the EU.
Group continues to refer to the balance sheet, rather than a statement of financial position.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63 Accounting policies continued IFRS 8 Operating Segments Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost IFRS 8 requires disclosure of information about the Groups in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine the date of the initial transaction.
primary business and secondary geographical reporting Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a segments.
The Group has determined that the operating segments foreign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair are the same as the business segments previously identified value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation underIAS 14, Segment Reporting.
Additional disclosures about are included in the income statement for the period, except each of these segments is shown in Note 2, including revised forexchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and comparative information.
liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures aboutFinancial Instruments Financial statements of foreign operations The amendments to IFRS 7 require additional disclosures about The trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the year.
related to items recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by Assetsand liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill, source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, by class, are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at for all financial instruments recognised at fair value.
Further the balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences are disclosures are required for level 3 fair value measurements and recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
On disposal significant transfers between levels.
The amendments also clarify of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement, derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management.
aspart of the profit or loss on sale.
The Group does not currently have significant financial instruments measured at fair value.
The fair value measurement and liquidity Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to risk disclosures are presented in Note 22.
The Group has chosen IFRS were deemed to be zero at that date.
As a result, if a foreign not to present comparative information for these new disclosures operation is sold, there is no exchange difference recognised in in the first year of application, as permitted under the transitional the income statement relating to the period prior to that date.
Revenue Other than the changes noted above, adoption of these Composition of revenue standardsand interpretations has not had any material effect Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services onthe Financial Statements of the Group.
supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions and sales taxes.
Revenue relating to construction contracts, including Exceptional items long-term service provision contracts, represents the value of Exceptional items are material items of income and expense work performed during the year determined by reference to the thatshould be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding stage of completion of the contract.
Discounts given to customers of the Groups financial performance and in making projections against list prices, such as trade or volume discounts, are deducted offuture results.
Such items may be operating or non-operating in arriving at the value of revenue.
Exceptional items are presented separately on the reported as an expense in the income statement.
faceof the income statement and analysed in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Recognition of revenue and profits Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the Foreign currencies economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be The presentational currency of the Group and functional currency reliably measured.
The specific methods used to recognise the of Invensys plc is sterling.
different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below.
The Financial Statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency Sale of goods is generally the currency of the primary economic environment in Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant which an entity operates.
risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to thebuyer and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
Foreign currency transactions Forsales of software solutions, revenue is recognised when a Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange signed contract exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
nosignificant vendor obligations remain and collection of the sales proceeds is considered probable.
A contract to deliver Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies goods, including software solutions, that requires significant are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet production, modification, customisation or integration of the date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income goods, is accounted for in its entirety as a construction contract.
statement unless: a the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the Profit is recognised at the time of sale.
hedging instrument in a cash flow hedging relationship that qualifies for hedge accounting: or b the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part of a net investment in a foreign operation: in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
| 64 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Construction contracts and rendering of services The value of any defined benefit asset recognised is restricted to Revenue from construction contracts and long-term service the present value of any economic benefits available in the form provision contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of ofrefunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
When the Group is committed to making minimum normally determined by the proportion that contract costs incurred funding payments to a defined benefit plan, and the present value to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
If the the plan as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred do not part of the resulting surplus that would not be recoverable.
accurately reflect the progress of contract activity, an alternative For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the approach is used such as the achievement of pre-determined income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions contract milestones.
Differences between contributions payable Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are inthe year and contributions actually paid are shown either as included in revenue from construction contracts when certain accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation Goodwill in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the On a business combination, the net fair value of the identifiable customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is assessed and is certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the businesses acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
Theexcess of the price paid over the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is included in intangible Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final assets as goodwill.
Any costs of integrating the acquired business outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all are taken to the income statement.
contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in whichthey are first foreseen.
Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves is recognised when the service is complete.
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
of a significant service, revenue from the provision of the service Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, isrecognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods ormore frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate by reference to the stage of completion of the service unless the that the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups inwhich case the whole transaction is treated as a construction policy on testing assets for impairment is set out under contract.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply Impairment of non-financial assets on page 66. of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carryingamount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
Research and development Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
All research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria Other intangible assets for recognition as an intangible asset see policy on Other Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated intangible assets.
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost ofintangible assets acquired in a business combination is the Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits fairvalue at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing profit or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the theasset for use.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost costless residual value of assets over their estimated useful lives of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service using the following annual rates or useful lives: that vests immediately is also charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of Development costs 10 to 25% the financial year is included within Other finance charges IAS 19.
Computer software costs 10 to 25% This also includes a charge representing the expected increase in Patents, trademarks and licenses Shorter of period of the liabilities of the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities agreement or 15 years of the scheme being one year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
No intangible year, together with differences from changes in assumptions.
assets other than goodwill are considered to have indefinite The net surplus or deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is useful lives.
reported on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Accounting policies continued Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as an Impairment of non-financial assets intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 38, Intangible Assets.
These require it to be probable that the indication that any non-financial asset excluding goodwill may be expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be impaired.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or measured reliably.
To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able not there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill was also tested to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
If there is an completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use indication of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the or sale.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project its recoverable amount and an impairment loss is recognised in are considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the the income statement.
These costs are incurred to determine the product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less alternatives and related risks, assess the technical feasibility of costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual concepts, make the final selection from the possible alternatives asset.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely and prepare the high level design and project planning.
The costs independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the incurred in the following development stage for substantially new recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset or improved products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and belongs is determined.
considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those The calculation of an assets value in use uses a discount rate that criteria.
These costs are generally incurred in developing the reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
detailed product design, software configuration and software interfaces: the coding of software, building of prototypes and Leased assets integration of the software with hardware: and testing and Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.
property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present Development expenditure directed towards incremental value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets are improvements in existing products does not qualify for subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the recognition as an intangible asset.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as In general the costs of developing software products that are sold appropriate within liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so not recognised as intangible assets.
The uncertainties associated as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of with the functionality of these products mean that technical the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
feasibility is achieved only immediately prior to or after field trial tests at customer sites.
As a result minimal or no costs are Other leases are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments, considered to meet the IAS 38 criteria for recognition.
including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is on a straight-line basis.
recognised separately from the goodwill arising on the business combination if the assets fair value can be measured reliably, The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a regardless of whether the asset had been recognised previously lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at its by the acquiree.
inception date and an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets Property, plant and equipment or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
the following applies: The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lives at the following rates applied to original cost: lease term: c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is Freehold land nil dependent on a specified asset: or Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% d there is a substantial change to the asset.
Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or Plant and equipment 7 to 35% ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis renewal or extension period for scenario b. and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
| 66 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Inventories Deferred income tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability realisable value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or items.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legally labour and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current capacity, to reflect the costs incurred in bringing the product to its tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied by the same present location and condition.
taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits Financial instruments and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of Derivative financial instruments three months or less.
The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts to Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off These instruments are accounted for as hedges when they are exist and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
designated as hedges at the inception of the contract.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial Taxation trading purposes.
Income tax on profit or loss All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and the balance sheet.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement contracts are calculated by reference to forward exchange rates except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is Current tax carried out according to the Groups risk management policies.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year and Hedges fall into three categories: any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable a Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the profit differs from profit reported in the income statement as it fair value of a recognised asset or liability: excludes items that are never taxable or deductible, or which are b Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash taxable or deductible in other years.
The Groups current tax assets flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated and liabilities are calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment: and Deferred tax c Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in Deferred income tax is accounted for using the balance sheet the value of the Groups net investment in foreign operations liability method, providing for temporary differences between due to changes in exchange rates.
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding amounts used for taxation The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below: purposes.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available Fair value hedges against which the asset can be utilised.
When a hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any No deferred income tax asset or liability is recognised in respect gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged of temporary differences associated with investments in risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of and similarly recognised in the income statement.
reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Cash flow and net investment hedges Such assets and liabilities are also not recognised if the temporary The portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument that is difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Any other than in a business combination of other assets and ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor statement.
When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged item the accounting profit.
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
In the balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is case of a net investment hedge, this takes place on disposal.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Accounting policies continued Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups net investment Derecognition of financial instruments in foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge, in contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the Measurement, is recognised in equity.
Any gains or losses arising same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or do not qualify as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability Derivative instruments held by the Groups pension and postand the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income themselves and are reflected in the Group Financial Statements statement.
within the amounts reported for those schemes.
Impairment of financial assets Other financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial The Groups other financial assets are classified as either availableasset or group of financial assets is impaired.
for-sale, at fair value through profit or loss, or held-to-maturity.
These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value and Assets carried at amortised cost subsequently measured as follows: a at fair value for available-forAssets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, sale financial assets.
Gains and losses are recognised in equity are impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from has been incurred.
The loss is measured as the difference these assets which are recognised in the income statement: b at between the assets carrying amount and the present value of fair value for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit Net gains or losses are based on changes in fair value: and c at losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, for assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate held-to-maturity financial assets.
Changes to the carrying amount computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset of held-to-maturity assets are recognised in the income statement.
is reduced through use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are The assessment considers whether objective evidence of discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
impairment exists individually for financial assets that are Any change in their value is recognised in the income statement.
individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that Debt instruments no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of assessed financial asset, the asset is included in a group of the consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective an impairment loss is recognised are not included in a collective interest rate method.
This cost is computed as the amount initially assessment of impairment.
recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Amortised cost is subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the or premium on settlement.
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement through carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the amortisation process and when the liabilities are derecognised.
Financial guarantee contracts For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
In a very limited reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are number of cases, the Group has issued such contracts to derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
guarantee certain borrowings by third parties.
Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of a the estimated outflow of resources required to meet any present obligation under the contract in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, and b the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18, Revenue.
| 68 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Available-for-sale financial investments In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied thedifference between its cost net of any principal payment and by the Group on transition to IFRSs, the requirements of IFRS 2, amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss Share-based Payment, have not been applied to equity instruments previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred granted on or before 7 November 2002 and those vesting before fromequity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity 1 January 2005. instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt Treasury shares instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the Own equity instruments which are re-acquired treasury shares increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related arededucted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised orloss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups inthe income statement.
Treasury shares are purchased and held by the Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares Share-based payment to employees under the Groups various share option and share The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled award schemes.
New standards and interpretations not applied For equity-settled share options, the services received from The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share interpretations with an effective date after the date of these options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation Financial Statements: model and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, International Accounting Standards Effective date financial periods ona straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an IAS IFRSs beginning on or after estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 1 July 2009 Vestingconditions, other than market conditions, are not taken IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate into account when estimating the fair value.
Market conditions are Financial Statements amended 1 July 2009 those conditions that are linked to the share price of the Company.
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is Instruments: Recognition and calculated based on the share price at the grant date and, where Measurement Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009 applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over Various Improvements to IFRSs thevesting period based on the number of shares expected April 2009 and May 2010 Various tovest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional ultimatelyvest, except for awards where vesting is conditional Exemptions for First-Time Adopters 1 January 2010 upon a marketor non-vesting condition: which are treated as IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting Exemption from Comparative conditionis satisfied, provided that all other performance or IFRS 7 Disclosures 1 July 2010 service conditions are satisfied.
IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are Cash-settled Share-based modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as Payment Transactions 1 January 2010 ifthe terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any classification and measurement 1 January 2013 modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised 1 January 2011 payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 Classification asmeasured at the date of modification.
of Rights Issues 1 February 2010 Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if itvested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet International Financial Reporting Effective date financial periods recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes Interpretations Committee IFRIC beginning on or after any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of eitherthe entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners 1 July 2009 award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009 replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations IFRIC 14 Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments ofequity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011 For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees are measured at fair value and recognised in the The Group expects to adopt these standards and interpretations consolidated income statement as an expense over the vesting in accordance with their effective dates.
The directors do not period with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The fair anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations valueof the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and will have a material impact on the Group Financial Statements in atthe date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised the period of initial application.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 Accounting policies continued Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Provisions and contingent liabilities In applying the Groups accounting policies, management is The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of required to make judgements and assumptions concerning the liabilities including environmental claims and onerous lease future in a number of areas.
Actual results may be different rentals.
The amounts recognised for provisions represent the fromthose estimated using these judgements and assumptions.
bestestimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting economic benefits that will be required to settle these liabilities.
judgements that have a significant risk of causing a material No provisions are recognised for contingent liabilities.
Contingent adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be withinthe next financial year are discussed below.
confirmed only by uncertain future events, or current obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that they will Impairment of goodwill result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on orbecause the amount of the obligation cannot be measured an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use withsufficient reliability.
of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed Estimating a value in use amount requires management to as a contingent liability or recognised as a provision requires makean estimate of the expected future cash flows from the judgements to be made on the existence of a present obligation cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate and the probability of future events.
When a provision is required, inorder to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The the amount recognised is determined using judgements and carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2010 was 301 million assumptions, based on current knowledge, to estimate the amount 2009: 306 million.
Details of the key assumptions used in testing and timing of future cash outflows arising from the liabilities.
for impairment and the sensitivity of the calculations to any At 31 March 2010, the estimated amount of liabilities requiring reasonably possible change in those assumptions are given in provisions was179 million 2009: 211 million.
Further details are Note 13. given in Note 24.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out inNote 30.
Pension and post-retirement benefits The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post Construction and long-term service provision contracts employment medical benefits is determined using actuarial Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail undertake valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions projects that frequently span more than one accounting period about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future and are accounted for as construction or long-term service salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
The Groups accounting policies for these Dueto the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are projects require revenues and costs to be allocated to individual subject to significant uncertainty.
The net pension liability at accounting periods and the consequent recognition at period 31March 2010 is 581 million 2009: 308 million.
Further endof contract assets or liabilities for projects still in progress.
details, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the UK Main The application of these policies requires management to apply Pension Scheme to changes in the principal assumptions, are judgement in estimating the total revenue and total costs given in Note 25. expected on each project.
Such estimates are revised as a project progresses to reflect the current status of the project and the Development costs latest information available to management.
Project management Costs incurred in developing new products are capitalised in teams perform regular reviews to ensure the latest estimates accordance with the Groups accounting policy for other intangible are appropriate.
These costs arise mainly in the Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail businesses.
Determining the The amount of revenue relating to projects accounted for as amounts to be capitalised requires management to make construction or long-term service provision contracts recognised assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash in the year ended 31 March 2010 was 1,048 million 2009: 1,110 generation of new products and the expected period of benefits.
The net amount due to contract customers on projects At 31 March 2010, the carrying amount of capitalised development inprogress at 31 March 2010 was 18 million 2009: 25 million costs was 123 million 2009: 109 million.
Further details due to contract customers.
Further details of amounts due from including an explanation of impairment losses recognised are and to contract customers are included in Note 18. given in Note 14.
| 70 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 General information The Group Financial Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 23 May 2010 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Nigel Rudd, Ulf Henriksson and Wayne Edmunds.
Invensys plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
Invensys Group comprises continuing operations and discontinued operations.
No new operations have been discontinued in thecurrent year.
Additional costs have been incurred relating to prior year disposals.
Continuing operations consist of the following divisions: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.
The principal activities of each of the continuing operations divisions are as follows: Invensys Operations Management is a technology, software and consulting business that creates and applies technologies to facilitate the safe and efficient operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites.
Invensys Rail provides signalling, communication and control systems that facilitate the safe and efficient operation of trains in mainline and mass transit networks across the world.
Invensys Controls designs, engineers and manufactures products, components, systems and services used in appliances, heating, air conditioning cooling and refrigeration products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets.
Further details on the activities of each of the above continuing operations are given in the Business Review.
This is the basis on which the Group is managed.
Operations presented as discontinued are explained in Note 10.
2 Operating segment information The Group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments, which requires operating segments to be identified based on the way that the Groups divisions are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to each division and assess its performance.
Although this approach is different from that of the predecessor standard IAS 14, Segment Reporting, which required the identification of primary business and secondary geographical segments, the Group has determined that its operating segments are the same as thebusiness segments previously reported.
However, reorganisation of the industrial automation businesses, which were previously reported as separate components of Invensys Operations Management, has resulted in these businesses being combined and reported as a single operating segment.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into divisions based on their products and services and has three reportable operating segments as explained in the Business Review: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.
Descriptions of the products and services provided by these divisions are set out in Note 1.
Operations presented as discontinued areexplained in Note 10.
Management monitors the operating results of each of these divisions separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated primarily on operating profit or loss before exceptional items as identified in the consolidated income statement.
Restructuring costs and impairment losses on operating assets, which are reported in the consolidated income statement as exceptional items, are also monitored at the segment level.
Other exceptional items together with foreign exchange gains or losses, finance costs, finance income, finance charges relating to pension arrangements under IAS 19, Employee Benefits and income tax are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment assets and liabilities are determined based on the operating assets and liabilities monitored by the chief operating decision maker on a segment basis.
These are consistent with the prior year with the exception of goodwill which is excluded from segment assets on adoption of IFRS 8.
The comparative information has been reclassified accordingly.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Operating segment information continued Total Inter-company External Total Inter-company External 1 1 revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Segment revenues m m m m m m Division 2 Invensys Operations Management 1,009 9 1,000 1,102 9 1,093 Invensys Rail 700 700 636 636 2 Invensys Controls 544 1 543 556 1 555 Eliminations 10 10 10 10 Total Group 2,243 2,243 2,284 2,284 Operating Operating Operating Operating 3 3 profit loss profit loss profit loss profit loss 2010 2009 2010 2009 Segment profit m m m m Division 2 Invensys Operations Management 92 119 63 88 Invensys Rail 141 134 136 133 2 Invensys Controls 53 26 40 Total segment 286 279 239 221 Corporate 38 35 16 43 Continuing operations 248 244 223 178 Reconciliation to profit before taxation: Exceptional finance costs 1 Finance costs 10 12 Exceptional finance income 27 Finance income 3 8 Other finance charges IAS 19 37 35 Profit before taxation continuing operations 179 165 Depreciation Depreciation Amortisation Amortisation 2010 2009 2010 2009 Components of segment profit: depreciation and amortisation m m m m Division 2 Invensys Operations Management 15 15 11 10 Invensys Rail 5 5 11 12 2 Invensys Controls 22 25 Corporate 1 1 Continuing operations 43 46 22 22 1 Inter-company revenue is invoiced at prevailing market prices.
2 From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division.
Comparatives have been reclassified accordingly.
| 72 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Loss on Loss on Impairment: Impairment: sale of sale of Other Other PPE PPE assets and assets and exceptional exceptional 1 Components of Restructuring Restructuring intangibles intangibles operations operations items items segment profit: 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 other material items m m m m m m m m Division Invensys Operations 2 Management 26 19 2 11 1 1 Invensys Rail 5 1 2 Invensys Controls 5 23 8 3 Corporate 7 6 2 4 33 Continuing operations 43 48 10 17 5 1 33 Total Total Total Total assets assets liabilities liabilities 2010 2009 2010 2009 Segment assets and liabilities m m m m Division 2 Invensys Operations Management 567 669 364 401 Invensys Rail 349 312 281 289 2 Invensys Controls 340 350 125 131 Total segment assets liabilities 1,256 1,331 770 821 Corporate 34 69 154 177 Total Group 1,290 1,400 924 998 Reconciliation to total assets and total liabilities: Intangible assets goodwill 301 306 Cash and cash equivalents 364 296 Pension liabilities 581 308 Other including current and deferred income tax assets liabilities 35 36 65 92 Total assets liabilities 1,990 2,038 1,570 1,398 Capex: Capex: Capex: Capex: intangibles intangibles PPE PPE other other 2010 2009 2010 2009 Components of segment assets: capital expenditure capex m m m m Division 2 Invensys Operations Management 14 12 13 9 Invensys Rail 8 5 23 15 2 Invensys Controls 12 14 Corporate 1 Continuing operations 34 32 36 24 1 Other exceptional items includes the US pension curtailment gain of 36 million arising from the closure of the defined benefit portion of the Invensys US pension plans.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Operating segment information continued Geographical analysis External External revenue revenue 2010 2009 Revenue from external customers m m 1 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 367 396 Other countries: Rest of Europe 645 658 United States 676 692 North America other 59 66 South America 114 103 Asia Pacific 311 310 Africa and Middle East 71 59 1,876 1,888 2,243 2,284 1 Revenue is presented based on the location of the Invensys business making the supply.
NonNoncurrent current 1 1 assets assets 2010 2009 1 Non-current assets m m 2 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 235 254 Other countries: Rest of Europe 127 126 United States 267 289 North America other 34 23 South America 27 25 Asia Pacific 40 34 Africa and Middle East 4 4 499 501 734 755 1 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets goodwill, intangible assets other and other receivables.
2 Information is presented based on the location of the assets.
Information about major customers The Group had no single external customer that accounted for 10% or more of the Groups total external revenues in the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
| 74 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 Operating profit and analysis of revenue 2010 2009 Notes m m Revenue 2,243 2,284 1 Cost of sales 1,459 1,496 Gross profit 784 788 Distribution costs 13 14 Administrative costs 427 437 1 Research and development costs 96 93 Operating profit before exceptional items 248 244 Restructuring costs 2 43 48 Other operating exceptional items: 2 US pension curtailment gain 25 36 Other oper ating exceptional items 3 Total other operating exceptional items 33 Impairment: property, plant and equipment 12 8 16 Impairment: intangible assets other 14 2 1 Loss on sale of assets and operations 2 5 1 Exceptional items 25 66 Operating profit 223 178 1 Research and development costs have been reported as a separate overhead cost as the directors consider this provides more meaningful analysis of gross profit and overhead costs.
The2009 comparatives have been reclassified accordingly, resulting in an increase in gross profit of 93 million.
Operating profit before exceptional items remains unchanged.
2 The US pension curtailment gain arises from the closure of the defined benefit portion of the Invensys US pension plans.
2010 2009 m m Analysis of revenue Sale of goods products 1,096 1,054 Sale of goods solutions 908 945 Rendering of services 239 285 Revenue 2,243 2,284 Exceptional finance income 27 Finance income 3 8 Total revenue 2,246 2,319 The disclosures related to discontinued operations are set out in Note 10.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4 Group operating profit 1 Total Group operating profit has been arrived at after charging the following: 2010 2009 Notes m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 43 46 2 Amortisation of intangible assets other 14 22 22 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 12 8 16 Impairment of intangible assets 14 2 1 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 75 85 Operating lease payments 30 43 37 Fees for audit and other services 5 7 7 Employee benefits expense 6 780 791 3 Net foreign exchange gain loss 3 3 1 Continuing and discontinued operations.
2 Of which 2 million 2009: 2 million is recorded within cost of sales and 20 million 2009: 20 million is included within overhead costs: 16 million 2009: 17 million in research and development costs, and 4 million 2009: 3 million in administrative costs.
3 Of which 3 million gain 2009: 4 million loss relates to transactional hedges.
5 Fees for audit and other services The Group has recognised the following amounts payable to its Group auditors in respect of the fees for audit and other services provided to the Group.
2010 2009 m m Audit of the financial statements 1.1 0.8 Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 2.6 2.6 Fee for audit 3.7 3.4 Fees for other services: taxation advisory services 2.0 1.8 corporate finance transaction advisory services 0.2 0.7 audit of the Group pension schemes 0.1 0.1 other services 0.9 0.8 Fees for other services 3.2 3.4 Fees for audit and other services 6.9 6.8 6 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense The average number of people employed by the Group including directors during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 Production 15,030 16,252 Marketing and distribution 2,192 2,388 Finance and administration 1,552 1,588 Research and development 1,583 1,911 20,357 22,139 | 76 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The aggregate payroll costs of these people were as follows: 2010 2009 Notes m m Wages and salaries 633 639 Social security costs 76 78 Pension and post-retirement costs 25 30 35 Share-based payment expense 29 11 12 Other payroll costs 30 27 780 791 Details of Directors remuneration are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 50.
7 Foreign exchange on financial items Foreign exchange on financial items are nil 2009: nil.
This includes 1 million 2009: 8 million of foreign exchange losses relating to derivatives used in the management of the Groups cash, offset by 1 million 2009: 8 million of foreign exchange gains on corresponding cash balances and intra-group loans which do not form part of the lenders net investment in foreign operations.
8 Total finance costs and finance income 2010 2009 Notes m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 1 Interest payable on other loans 1 1 Total interest expense for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss 1 2 Bonding costs 5 4 Amortisation of refinancing costs 1 1 Unwind of discount of provisions 24 2 3 Fair value loss on financial assets held for trading 16 2 Other 1 Finance costs 10 12 Bank interest receivable 3 8 Total interest income for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss 3 8 Finance income 3 8 Net finance costs 7 4 In addition to the above, the Group has recognised exceptional finance income and expenses of nil 2009: exceptional finance income of 27 million relating to a gain on the sale of available-for-sale investments and exceptional finance costs of 1 million relating to transaction fees associated with the Groups capital reduction.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Taxation i Analysis of income tax expense in the consolidated income statement Income tax expense recognised within the consolidated income statement may be analysed as follows: 2010 2009 Note m m UK corporation tax Current income tax charge 1 6 Double taxation relief 4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 8 3 6 Overseas tax Current income tax charge 38 37 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 1 28 38 Total current income tax continuing operations 25 32 Deferred income tax Current deferred income tax charge credit 2 10 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 1 Total deferred income tax continuing operations 1 9 Taxation continuing operations 26 23 Taxation discontinued operations 10 1 2 Total income tax expense 25 21 A reversal of the exceptional tax charge that arose from the recognition of the PPP settlement credit in the year ended 31 March 2008 and the restructuring costs incurred in the year gave rise to an exceptional tax credit of 6 million 2009: 7 million primarily as a result of restructuring costs.
Total income tax expense may be analysed as follows: Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Analysed as: Taxation UK 3 3 6 6 Taxation overseas 29 1 28 29 2 27 26 1 25 23 2 21 | 78 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ii Total tax reconciliation The total tax charge for the year of 25 million 2009: 21 million is lower 2009: lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28% 2009: 28%.
The key factors are explained below: 2010 2009 m m Profit before tax: Continuing operations 179 165 Discontinued operations 3 11 176 154 Tax at the UK corporate income tax rate of 28% 2009: 28% 49 43 Adjustments in respect of prior years 16 8 Non-taxable loss on sale of business 3 Current year losses and other temporary differences not recognised 8 7 Tax effect of expenses that are are not deductible 17 5 Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 6 18 Recognition of carried forward losses in current year 1 4 Differences in effective overseas tax rates 8 7 Total income tax expense 25 21 iii Factors that may affect future tax charges Invensys is subject to several factors which affect the tax charge including the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions and the availability of tax losses.
iv Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order In December 2006 Invensys filed a claim in the High Court for compensation arising from the payment of advance corporation tax and from satisfying liabilities to corporation tax arising from the receipt of dividends from non UK resident subsidiaries.
Invensys contends that these tax liabilities were incurred in breach of its EU community law rights.
Invensys joined a Group Litigation Order with 27 other corporates from whom two test cases were selected to proceed to trial on a representative basis.
In December 2006 the European Court of Justice issued its guidance to the UK High Court on the compatability of certain UK tax provisions within EU community law.
The test cases returned to the UK High Court for the full hearing in July 2008, with the UK High Court issuing its judgement on 27 November 2008.
The UK High Court judgement in November 2008 found in favour of the claimants on certain key aspects of the claim.
The judgement concluded, inter alia, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should be, and should have been, effectively exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received from EU subsidiaries before 5 April 1999 and, in some limited circumstances, after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income with the consequence that advance corporation tax need not have been paid.
The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgement was handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court of Appeal has determined that various questions should be referred back to the European Court of Justice for further clarification.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years.
It is expected that this process may take several years to complete.
Given the complexity and uncertainty over the issues raised it is not possible to predict the amounts and final outcome with any reasonable certainty.
Therefore no contingent asset has been recognised in the Group Financial Statements.
10 Discontinued operations No operations have been discontinued in the year to 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, net 3 million 2009: 11 million of additional costs were incurred in respect of prior year disposals against which there was a 1 million tax credit 2009:2 million.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 Earnings loss per share 2010 2009 Earnings loss per share pence Continuing operations Basic 18.5p 17.4p Diluted 18.4p 17.2p Before exceptional US pension curtailment gain, PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income Basic 13.4p 14.1p Diluted 13.3p 14.0p Discontinued operations Basic 0.2 p 1.1 p Diluted 0.2 p 1.1 p Total Group Basic 18.3p 16.3p Diluted 18.1p 16.1p Weighted average number of shares million Basic 805 799 Effect of dilution share options 6 7 Diluted 811 806 Earnings m Continuing operations Basic 149 139 Before exceptional US pension curtailment gain, PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income Operating profit 223 178 Exceptional curtailment gain 36 Finance costs 10 12 Finance income 3 8 Other finance charges IAS 19 37 35 Operating profit less net finance costs 143 139 1 Taxation on operating profit less net finance costs 31 23 Minority interests 4 3 108 113 Discontinued operations Basic 2 9 Total Group Basic 147 130 1 Includes 5 million 2009: nil for the reversal of the exceptional tax charge that arose from the recognition of the PPP settlement credit.
The basic earnings loss per share for the year has been calculated using 805 million shares 2009: 799 million, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as Treasury shares which are treated as cancelled, and the profit after taxation and minority interests for continuing operations, discontinued operations and total Group as shown above.
An additional earnings per share calculation for continuing operations has been included since the directors consider that this gives useful additional indications of underlying performance.
This is based on earnings before the exceptional US pension curtailment gain, PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income.
The diluted earnings loss per share has been calculated in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share without reference to adjustments in respect of certain share options which are considered to be anti-dilutive.
There have been no significant transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion of these Financial Statements.
| 80 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total Note m m m Cost At 1 April 2008 196 620 816 Additions 6 26 32 Additions acquired through business combinations 32 1 1 Disposals 11 45 56 Exchange adjustments 39 143 182 Classified as held for sale 1 1 At 31 March 2009 232 744 976 Additions 4 30 34 Disposals 2 62 64 Exchange adjustments 1 9 10 Classified as held for sale 13 13 At 31 March 2010 220 703 923 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 April 2008 70 464 534 Charge for the year 5 41 46 1 Provision for impairment 14 2 16 Disposals 7 43 50 Exchange adjustments 15 110 125 At 31 March 2009 97 574 671 Charge for the year 5 38 43 1 Provision for impairment 6 2 8 Disposals 2 56 58 Exchange adjustments 2 7 9 Classified as held for sale 6 6 At 31 March 2010 98 551 649 Net book value At 31 March 2009 135 170 305 At 31 March 2010 122 152 274 Amounts included in respect of assets held under finance leases are: Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Net book value At 31 March 2009 1 1 At 31 March 2010 1 1 1 Includes 1 million of a property impairment reversal.
There was nil 2009: nil depreciation charged in the year in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
The title to plant and machinery with a carrying amount of 2 million 2009: 1 million has been pledged as security for liabilities.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Included in plant and equipment at 31 March 2010 was an amount of 11 million 2009: 6 million relating to expenditure for plant and equipment in the course of construction.
Impairment losses of 8 million comprise 5 million for the write down of buildings and equipment associated with a restructuring project undertaken in Invensys Controls and 3 million for the write down of fixed assets: 2 million in Invensys Operations Management and 1 million in Invensys Controls.
2009: 16 million comprising 11 million in Invensys Operations Management and 2 million within Corporate due to property and freehold land impairments as a result of current market conditions and 3 million for the write down of assets in relation to the closure of manufacturing plants within Invensys Controls.
The recoverable amounts of these assets were estimated based on their fair value less costs to sell.
Fair values were determined based on an assessment of the current market values of the assets and past experience of sales of similar assets.
13 Intangible assets goodwill m Cost At 1 April 2008 353 Additions 36 Exchange adjustments 80 At 31 March 2009 469 Exchange adjustments 8 At 31 March 2010 461 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2008 138 Exchange adjustments 25 At 31 March 2009 163 Exchange adjustments 3 At 31 March 2010 160 Net book value At 31 March 2009 306 At 31 March 2010 301 Goodwill acquired in business combinations has been allocated to four cash generating units CGUs or groups of cash generating units.
An analysis of the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is set out below: 2010 2009 m m 1 Invensys Operations Management 284 289 Invensys Rail 16 16 1 Invensys Controls 1 1 Continuing operations 301 306 1 From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division.
Invensys Operations Management comprises four cash generating units Invensys Process Systems IPS, Wonderware, Eurotherm and IMServ, which are managed as a single division.
As disclosed in the Business Review, IPS, Wonderware and Eurotherm have been integrated into a combined division.
As a consequence of the integration, the goodwill relating to each of these three cash generating units now benefits all of these Invensys Operations Management businesses.
To reflect this, the cash generating units are aggregated to capture the benefits arising across these Invensys Operations Management businesses in assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
Although IMServ is part of Invensys Operations Management, management continues to monitor IMServs goodwill separately.
As a result, IMServ together with Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls are treated as separate cash generating units for goodwill impairment monitoring purposes.
These three cash generating units and one group of cash generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Previously, the goodwill balances allocated to IPS, Wonderware and Eurotherm were each tested for impairment separately.
| 82 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Goodwill allocated to IPS, Wonderware and Eurotherm amounts to 251 million 2009: 256 million.
Goodwill allocated to IMServ amounts to 33 million 2009: 33 million.
Annual impairment test The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill is tested separately for each cash generating unit or group of cash generating units that represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations using cash flow projections over a five-year period.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are: revenue volumes: revenue prices: operating costs: growth rate assumptions for years four and five of the cash flow projections: growth in perpetuity applied to calculate the terminal value: and discount rate.
Expected revenue volumes, revenue prices and operating costs are those included in the most recent financial annual operating plans approved by management.
They reflect managements current expectations for the CGUs taking account of expected future developments in markets and operations.
Cash flows for years four and five are projected at a growth rate appropriate for the relevant CGUs.
These growth rates take into consideration forecast GDP growth rates for the countries of operation, expected market growth rates for those regions and the levels of growth achieved historically by the CGUs and forecast in the periods covered by the annual operating plan.
Lower growth rates are applied in perpetuity to calculate the terminal values of the CGUs.
These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
A discount rate is derived for the CGUs by adjusting the Groups weighted average cost of capital to reflect the relative level of risk associated with the cash flow projections.
The discount rate is a pre-tax rate.
These discount rates and growth rates are as follows: Discount Growth Discount Growth 1 1 rate rate rate rate 2010 2010 2009 2009 % % % % Invensys Operations Management IPS, Wonderware and Eurotherm 12.83 3.0 12.23 2.9 IMServ 11.75 2.0 10.60 1.9 Invensys Rail 10.98 2.6 10.39 3.0 Invensys Controls 12.75 2.7 11.72 1.5 1 In perpetuity.
In all cases the recoverable amounts of these CGUs were in excess of their carrying values and no impairment arose in the year 2009: nil.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With respect to the assessment of value in use of all CGUs, management believes that no reasonable possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Intangible assets other Computer Patents, Development software trademarks costs costs and licences Total Note m m m m Cost At 1 April 2008 131 30 161 Additions 21 3 24 Additions acquired through business combinations 32 12 12 Exchange adjustments 23 9 32 At 31 March 2009 187 42 229 Additions 34 1 1 36 Disposals 1 1 Elimination of fully amortised assets 4 4 Exchange adjustments 2 1 3 At 31 March 2010 215 41 1 257 Accumulated amortisation At 1 April 2008 50 19 69 Charge for the year 18 4 22 1 Impairment losses for the year 1 1 Exchange adjustments 9 5 14 At 31 March 2009 78 28 106 Charge for the year 18 4 22 1 Impairment losses for the year 2 2 Elimination of fully amortised assets 4 4 Exchange adjustments 2 2 At 31 March 2010 92 32 124 Net book value At 31 March 2009 109 14 123 At 31 March 2010 123 9 1 133 1 Impairment losses of 2 million in the year ended 31 March 2010 relate to write down of a specific development asset in Invensys Controls.
The asset is no longer expected to generate future revenues and as a result its carrying value has been written down to nil.
2009: 1 million related to the write down of a specific development asset in Invensys Rail.
The future revenues expected to be derived from the asset had been significantly delayed and were no longer sufficiently certain to support continued recognition of the asset.
The carrying amount of the asset was written down to nil.
15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities The following are the major deferred income tax assets liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year: PPE Tax intangibles losses Other Total m m m m At 1 April 2008 23 33 4 6 1 Charge credit to income statement 3 12 9 Acquisition of subsidiary 3 3 Exchange differences 6 12 1 5 At 31 March 2009 35 57 5 17 1 Charge credit to income statement 9 4 12 1 Exchange differences 1 1 1 1 At 31 March 2010 43 52 6 15 1 Included in Other is a credit of 9 million relating to inventories 2009: 2 million charge.
| 84 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred income tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2010 2009 m m Deferred income tax assets 27 32 Deferred income tax liabilities 12 15 15 17 As a result of changes to tax legislation, dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 will be largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
The gross temporary differences of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes is 40 million 2009: 533 million as calculated under the previous rules prior to the change in legislation.
No deferred income tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The Group has unrecognised income tax losses of 1,229 million with a tax value of 396 million 2009: 1,191 million with a tax value of 372 million available for offset against future profits.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 48 million 2009: 54 million that will expire within four years.
The Group has unrecognised capital losses of 1,341 million 2009: 782 million that are only available for offset against future capital gains.
Included in capital losses are losses of 170 million 2009: 206 million that will expire within four years.
Other capital losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
A deferred income tax asset has not been recognised on temporary differences of 823 million with a tax value of 272 million 2009: 533 million with a tax value of 167 million in respect of pension and other retirement benefit obligations and other deductible temporary differences.
16 Other financial assets 2010 2009 m m Other financial assets non-current: Available-for-sale investments 1 1 1 1 Other financial assets current: Held-to-maturity financial investments 23 23 Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in listed ordinary shares and therefore have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
These investments were not acquired with the intention of selling them in the near term.
Available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment is due to mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
At 31 March 2010 held-to-maturity investments were nil 2009: held-to-maturity investments comprised 9 million of US Treasury Notes held to defease the covenants in the Groups remaining 144A Bonds and 14 million of deposits held to secure certain bonding facilities.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Other financial assets continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss In the year ended 31 March 2009, Nikkei-linked securities with final maturity dates between 2010 and 2020 were sold for 5 million.
Market values were determined by external security dealers using pricing models, based on various financial factors including bond prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and the Nikkei Index prices.
These assets were classified as held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The total amount of the change in fair value estimated using a valuation technique that was recognised in the income statement during the year was nil 2009: 2 million loss.
17 Inventories 2010 2009 m m Raw materials and consumables 87 86 Work in progress 30 32 Finished goods 40 46 157 164 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2010 2009 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 833 835 Including: Write down of inventories to net realisable value 4 5 Reversals of impairments in inventories 1 1 18 Amounts due from to contract customers 2010 2009 m m Amounts due from contract customers: Amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months 180 236 180 236 Amounts due to contract customers: Amounts expected to be settled within 12 months 158 219 Amounts expected to be settled after more than 12 months 40 42 198 261 Net amounts due to contract customers 18 25 Analysed as: Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 3,696 2,347 Less: progress billings 3,714 2,372 Contracts in progress at balance sheet date 18 25 Revenue from construction contracts 1,048 1,110 At 31 March 2010, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to 35 million 2009: 27 million and advances received from customers for contract work amounted to 11 million 2009: 21 million.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts due from to contract customers is a reasonable approximation of their fairvalue.
| 86 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 Note m m Non-current Other receivables 26 21 26 21 Current Trade receivables 421 426 Prepayments and accrued income 27 33 Other receivables 62 65 510 524 Total trade and other receivables 536 545 Classification to financial assets Financial assets: loans and receivables 22i 475 482 Non-financial assets 61 63 536 545 Trade receivables are recorded net of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 53 days.
The allowance that has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods is 13 million 2009: 14 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
The net impairment loss recognised in the year as a result of irrecoverable receivables balances is nil 2009: 7 million loss.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing.
Other receivables include amounts owed by associated undertakings, interest receivable, refundable deposits, refunds due in respect of VAT, sales and payroll taxes, commissions earned and insurance recoveries.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 April 14 9 Increase in provisions 4 8 Decrease in provisions 4 1 Utilisation of provisions 1 5 Exchange adjustments 3 At 31 March 13 14 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Neither past due nor impaired 341 340 Past due but not impaired past due by: 1 to 30 days 39 45 31 to 60 days 21 18 61 to 90 days 7 11 91 to 120 days 7 7 121 days and over 6 5 421 426 Generally the Group does not hold any collateral as security against trade receivables that are impaired or past due but not impaired.
The Group performs credit verification procedures on all customers.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Further information on the Groups approach to credit risk in relation to trade and other receivables is given in Note 22.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 m m Cash at banks and in hand 170 134 Short-term deposits 194 162 Cash and cash equivalents 364 296 Cash and cash equivalents attract interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents.
Short-term deposits have an average maturity of 11 days 2009: 12 days.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from their book value.
For information on the exposure of the Groups cash and cash equivalents balances to credit risk refer to Note 22.
Restricted cash and short-term deposits As an international Group, Invensys has operations in a number of territories including China, Brazil and India which place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to lend money to other Group entities outside those territories.
However, distributions to the Group are permitted from audited reserves.
At 31 March 2010 restricted cash and cash equivalents held in such territories totalled 68 million 2009: 73 million.
Cash and cash equivalents include 37 million 2009: 22 million of cash collateral held in the ordinary course of business to provide security for local bonding facilities.
In addition, the Group has bonds and guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities which are outlined in Note 21.
| 88 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Borrowings i Bank and other loans falling due within and after more than one year 2010 2009 m m On demand or within one year 9 Repayable over one but not more than two years 1 1 Total bank and other loans 1 10 Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months current liabilities 9 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months non-current liabilities 1 1 ii Loan repayment dates, interest rates and principal terms Committed facilities 2010 Interest 2010 2009 Notes Maturity m rate m m Bank loans LIBOR Multicurrency credit facility 1 Jul 2013 400 1.50% 400 Other loans and borrowings US$ Bonds 2010 2 Jan 2010 6.50% 9 Finance leases 3 Various 1 Various 1 1 1 1 10 401 1 10 1 Interest was charged at LIBOR plus 2.0% for the first 12 months, expiring on 15 July 2009.
Subsequently, the rate has been LIBOR plus 1.50% based on balance sheet leverage.
This facility contains covenants in relation to financial ratios: acquisitions are permitted up to 100 million per annum in aggregate, in addition the proceeds from certain disposals may also be used for acquisitions: dividends are allowed, provided they are paid out of the previous years free cash flow this restriction does not apply if the Company has an investment grade rating.
2 Senior Notes issued in the United States under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933.
The Company had no right to call these Notes prior to maturity but the Notes had been covenant defeased.
3 Finance leases are secured by charges over the assets to which they relate.
At 31 March 2010 1 million of such loans were classified as non-current liabilities 2009: 1 million.
As at 31 March 2010, the committed syndicated loan facility available to the Group was a 400 million multicurrency credit facility with aterm of five years from July 2008.
The facility is available for drawdown as loans, letters of credit or guarantees.
The available facility at31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 was 400 million of which 240 million was drawn at 31 March 2010 for the provision of bonds and guarantees 2009: 217 million.
In addition, at 31 March 2010, the Group has bonds and guarantees totalling 245 million issued under uncommitted facilities.
Of these, 37 million 2009: 22 million are supported by cash collateral and a further 20 million 2009: 20 million are supported by guarantees issued under the Groups committed syndicated loan facility.
iii Undrawn committed facilities 2010 2009 m m Expiring in more than two years 160 183 160 183 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank and other loans, cash and cash equivalents, other financial assets, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily forward currency contracts.
This note explains the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments: how those risks arise: the objectives, policies and processes used by the Group for managing the risks: and the methods used to measure the risks.
Overview of treasury policy The Group manages its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments by the application of its treasury policy.
The Groups treasury policy is approved by the Board and seeks to ensure that: appropriate financial resources are available for the maintenance and development of the Groups businesses: the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty credit exposure is understood, measured and managed appropriately: and treasury operates as a cost centre and that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
Following the redemption of virtually all of the Groups foreign currency borrowings in the year ended 31 March 2009 in advance of the significant weakening of sterling, there have been no significant changes in the Groups exposures to risk, and its approach to managing those exposures, in the year ended 31 March 2010 compared to the year ended 31 March 2009.
Policy in respect of the major areas of treasury management is set out below.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
Operating within the strict controls of the Groups treasury policy, the Treasury Department manages this risk, ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity is available to meet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cash flow variations.
In addition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts a flexible approach to liquidity management using a mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Core funding is provided by a bank facility which matures in July 2013, as described in Note21 ii.
The undrawn level of this facility as set out in Note 21 iii together with the Groups cash balances as set out in Note20, are the key measures of the Groups liquidity.
Bank guarantees issued by the Group as set out in Note 21 ii represent a potential liquidity requirement.
This risk is mitigated by issuing guarantees under the committed syndicated loan facility and holding sufficient liquidity to cover the forecast cash requirements of guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities.
Liquidity management is centralised through cash pooling arrangements and inter-company funding structures, under the control of the Treasury Department.
In countries where cash pooling arrangements cannot be implemented, cash balances are monitored to ensure that surplus amounts are repatriated and deficits adequately funded.
The Treasury Department maintains sufficient back-up liquidity in the form of available cash balances and committed facilities.
Standard business practices include the strict application of credit control procedures to ensure the collection of cash from customers in accordance with agreed credit periods and terms that result in positive cash flows over the life of a construction or long-term service provision contract whenever possible.
| 90 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The following table summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 based oncontractual undiscounted payments: Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total 31 March 2010 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Finance leases 1 1 Provisions 6 5 4 3 2 8 28 Trade and other payables 487 6 2 495 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 50 41 32 28 21 95 267 543 53 36 31 23 105 791 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 9 9 Total financial liabilities 552 53 36 31 23 105 800 Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total 31 March 2009 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Long-term bank and other loans 9 9 Finance leases 1 1 Provisions 10 7 6 3 2 10 38 Trade and other payables 459 7 1 1 468 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 50 38 30 23 19 66 226 528 53 37 26 21 77 742 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 4 4 Total financial liabilities 532 53 37 26 21 77 746 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to risk arising from the effect of changes in floating interest rates on the level of interest it pays on its borrowings and receives on its cash deposits.
The Groups policy is to set the proportion of fixedand floating-rate debt taking into account several factors including: the financial leverage of the Group: the profitability of the Group in relation to the business cycle: and absolute levels of interest rates.
To implement this policy the Group considers the use of fixed-rate borrowings, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and currency forwards and swaps as necessary to manage its interest rate exposure.
As at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, in line with the Group having a net cash position, Invensys had no significant fixed-rate borrowings.
The interest rate profiles of the Groups cash and cash equivalents and shortand long-term borrowings are set out in Notes 20 and 21 respectively.
All other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are non-interest bearing and a statement has been made to that effect in the relevant balance sheet notes.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating-rate cash and borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
The same assumptions have been used for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009.
Effect on profit Effect on profit before tax: before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Increase 2010 2009 decrease m m GBP 1% 1.2 1.0 Euro 1% 0.4 0 US dollar 1% 0.5 0.5 GBP 1% 1.2 1.0 Euro 1% 0.4 0 US dollar 1% 0.5 0.5 Currency risk Transaction exposure Currency transaction exposure arises when the divisions face revenues or costs in a currency other than their own.
The incidence of this risk varies across the Group and is subject to change.
Usually however, the majority of revenues and costs will be in the functional currency of the business undertaking the transaction.
Where this is not the case and the exposure is significant, it is the Groups policy for businesses to hedge their exposures.
The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts to manage transaction exposure.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk when making bids, particularly on major contracts, where movements against the specific exchange rate assumed within a bid would lead to a change in the anticipated margin on the contract should the bid be successful.
This tender to contract risk is hedged if significant.
Translation exposure The majority of the Groups operating capital is employed in overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, particularly US dollars.
As a consequence, changes in exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported results.
This risk is not hedged directly, but to the extent that the Group has debt, any that is held in foreign currency would reduce the level of net assets exposed to currency fluctuations.
The interest expense related to such debt would also reduce the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows: Other Other US dollar Euro excl GBP US dollar Euro excl GBP 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 As at 31 March m m m m m m Net assets of non-GBP functional currency entities 122 86 203 322 106 170 Net unhedged monetary assets not held in entities functional currencies 26 25 65 93 4 13 Gross exposure 148 61 138 415 102 183 The significant exchange rates that applied during the year are set out in Note 37.
Currency risk sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and euro exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of: the Groups profit before tax due to changes in the sterling value of monetary assets and liabilities not held in entities functional currencies assuming year end levels of such items are held constant : and the Groups equity due to changes in the sterling value of year end net assets held by non-GBP functional currency entities.
| 92 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Effect on profit Effect on Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: before tax: equity: Strengthening increase increase increase increase weakening decrease decrease decrease decrease US dollar and 2010 2010 2009 2009 euro rate m m m m Euro 5% 1 5 5 US dollar 5% 1 6 5 16 Euro 5% 1 4 5 US dollar 5% 1 6 5 16 The effect on profit is derived by applying the assumed strengthening weakening percentage to the net amount of unhedged monetary assets held in a currency that is not the functional currency of the Group entity holding those assets.
The effect on equity is derived by applying the assumed strengthening weakening percentage to the net assets of Group entities whose functional currency is other than sterling.
Price risk The Groups exposure to changing market prices on the value of financial instruments has an impact on the carrying value of financial assets that are classified as available-for-sale and on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group monitors changes in the carrying amounts of these assets and any resulting change in exposure to price risk in order to ensure that its investment in these assets remains appropriate.
On 31 March 2010, the total carrying value of these financial assets was 1 million 2009: 1 million.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to risk if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Such a risk arises principally in relation to receivables due from customers and cash deposited with banks or other financial institutions.
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as to control exposure to any territory or institution.
As far as it is both feasible and practical to do so, cash is held centrally by treasury.
Risk is assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their respective carrying values as at the balance sheet date see i on page 94. Credit risks arising from acting as guarantor are disclosed in Note 30.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Details of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements in respect of receivables are given in Note 19.
Based on past experience, the directors believe that there is no significant credit risk associated with receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and performs credit verification procedures on all customers.
Receivable balances, including uninvoiced receivables reported as amounts due from contract customers, are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Group has not renegotiated the terms of any significant financial assets such that those assets would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
Derivatives Derivatives are used to manage the interest rate and currency risks described above and further detail is provided below.
Capital management The credit facility in place at 31 March 2010 provides liquidity for the Group until July 2013 and supports the current strategy of the Group.
This facility is described further in Note 21 ii.
Investigations are continually undertaken to review alternative financing arrangements.
In making those considerations the Board takes into account the cost of any refinancing compared to the benefits, which include terms and conditions, the cost of funding and repayment schedules.
There were no significant changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31March 2009.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2010 2009 As at 31 March m m 1 Capital employed 57 354 Cash and cash equivalents 364 296 Borrowings 1 10 Net cash 363 286 Total equity funds 420 640 Comprising: Equity holders of parent 340 553 Minority interests 80 87 420 640 1 Includes other current financial assets of nil 2009: 23 million.
On 21 January 2009, Invensys completed a restructuring of its reserves which facilitated the payment of dividends from earnings realised after that date.
Net cash was 363 million 2009: 286 million with nil 2009: 23 million held on deposit with a maturity of more than three months.
i Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the classification, carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates translated at year end exchange rates.
Provisions have been included where there is a contractual obligation to settle in cash.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March was: Book Fair Book Fair value value value value 2010 2010 2009 2009 Notes m m m m Financial assets Available-for-sale investments 16 1 1 1 1 Held-to-maturity financial assets 16 23 23 Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables 19 475 475 482 482 Cash and cash equivalents 20 364 364 296 296 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 22ii 3 3 2 2 843 843 804 804 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Short-term bank and other loans 21 9 9 Finance leases 30 1 1 1 1 Provisions 24 27 27 37 37 Trade and other payables 26 495 495 468 468 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 22ii 9 9 4 4 532 532 519 519 | 94 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Available-for-sale investments: fair values are derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held for trading: fair values are market values determined by external security dealers using pricing models, based on various financial factors including bond prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and Index prices.
Held-to-maturity financial assets: fair values of quoted notes are based on price quotations at the reporting date.
Loans and receivables: trade and other receivables: cash and cash equivalents: provisions and trade and other payables: the directors consider that the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates to their fair value.
Shortand long-term bank and other loans: finance leases: fair values are evaluated based on interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments: foreign exchange swaps and forwards: fair values are derived using forward pricing and swap models.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties and foreign exchange spot and forward rates.
The Group has, in the ordinary course of business, provided indemnities to banks in respect of performance guarantees issued to customers.
The fair value of such indemnities is not material as the likelihood of any liability arising from them is considered remote.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group had guaranteed certain borrowings by third parties.
By 31 March 2010, these arrangements had come to an end and no longer gave rise to a contingent liability to the Group 2009: 2 million being the total amount of such borrowings outstanding at that date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly orindirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m Financial assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments 1 1 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 1 3 4 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 9 9 9 9 During the year ended 31 March 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into orout of Level 3 fair value measurements.
ii Derivative financial instruments A summary of derivative financial instruments is as follows: Fair Fair value value 2010 2009 m m Derivative assets 3 2 Derivative liabilities 9 4 6 2 The Group uses derivatives to hedge currency transaction exposure and currency translation exposure.
The figures in the above table are analysed by category as set out on page 96.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge transaction exposure The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to hedge currency exposure arising from sales and purchases made by the Groups businesses in currencies other than their own functional currency.
The turnover i. e. notional principal of such derivatives which typically have a term of less than one year, excluding swaps, in the year to 31 March 2010 was 614 million 2009: 273 million and their fair value at 31 March was: Fair Fair value value 2010 2009 m m Derivative assets 3 2 Derivative liabilities 9 4 6 2 All of these instruments are designated and effective as cash flow hedges.
6 million relating to hedged cash flows that have not yet impacted the income statement have been deferred and recognised in equity at 31 March 2010 2009: 2 million.
3 million gain 2009: 4 million loss has been transferred to the income statement during the year to 31 March 2010 in respect of contracts which matured.
This amount is included within cost of sales in the income statement.
Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge translation exposure The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to match the currency profile of its net debt to that of its net assets, revenue and earnings and ensure that it has sufficient cash available to meet its payment obligations by currency as they fall due.
The fair value of such derivatives which typically have a term of less than one year is nil 2009: nil.
The currency assets and liabilities created by these derivatives at 31 March were: Net assets Net assets Assets Liabilities liabilities Assets Liabilities liabilities 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Sterling 10 10 35 35 Euro 19 19 US dollar 24 24 Japanese yen 10 10 8 8 Other 26 4 22 10 10 58 58 Changes in the fair value of these derivatives of 1 million in the year to 31 March 2010 2009: 8 million are taken directly to foreign exchange losses in the income statement, see Note 7. iii Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement No amounts were recognised in the income statement relating to the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges 2009: nil.
23 Assets held for sale Assets held for sale relate to surplus freehold properties that are vacant, no longer used for operational purposes and are being actively marketed for sale.
These properties are expected to be sold within a year of the date of their classification as held for sale and are included in Corporate in the operating segment analysis in Note 2.
The major classes of assets classified as held for sale as at 31 March are: 2010 2009 m m Current assets Surplus property portfolio 6 1 6 1 | 96 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24 Provisions Onerous Warranties Restructuring Environmental contracts Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2009 28 24 55 37 67 211 Charged in year 8 45 5 4 12 74 Released in year 3 2 4 4 13 Utilised in year 13 48 7 6 15 89 Transferred 3 3 Unwind of discount of provisions 1 1 2 Exchange adjustments 2 2 2 6 At 31 March 2010 18 19 52 27 63 179 2010 2009 Note m m Analysed as: Current liabilities 79 100 Non-current liabilities 100 111 179 211 Classification to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22i 27 37 Non-financial liabilities 152 174 179 211 Warranties are provided for in the normal course of business based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past claims.
Such costs are generally incurred over the product life cycle.
The actual amount of costs that will be incurred will depend upon the level and nature of future claims.
Restructuring provisions cover committed costs, the majority of which are expected to be incurred within one year of the balance sheetdate.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount can be determined reliably.
Thisgenerally coincides with a commitment to a formal plan or, if earlier, on divestment or closure of inactive sites.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 30 years.
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to lease rentals in respect of vacant property and the costs of other onerous contracts.
An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
The provisions represent the best estimate of the unavoidable costs remaining under the current contractual terms of the contracts.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next 15 years.
Other provisions principally relate to legal claims, claims under workers compensation or similar employee disability benefit schemes and other miscellaneous obligations.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next five years.
The costs are estimated based on the expected outcome of the legal claim or obligation.
The amount of the final liability and timing of payment, if any, is dependent upon the final outcome of any litigation or other negotiation involved.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of provisions equates to their fair value.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits i Defined contribution schemes The Group operates many defined contribution schemes.
Pension costs in respect of defined contribution schemes represented contributions payable in the year and amounted to 12 million 2009: 12 million.
At 31 March 2010, there were 1 million 2009:1million of outstanding contributions included in payables.
ii Defined benefit schemes general The Group operates many funded and unfunded defined benefit pension and post-retirement schemes.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of the independent actuary of the relevant scheme.
There are two main funded defined benefit schemes in the UK and US, together with other smaller schemes in the rest of the world.
The main UK scheme is final salary in nature.
The main US scheme is no longer final salary following the closure to future accrual and the freezing of benefits for existing members with effect from 1 November 2009.
The principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK employees is the Invensys Pension Scheme.
The Invensys Pension Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme.
The assets of this scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
These assets are managed by trustees, who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries.
The Trustee Board is made up of nine directors, four nominated by the Company and five by the members.
The Company is responsible for appointing the Chairman from the Board.
The last full actuarial valuation of the Scheme for funding purposes was carried out with a valuation date of 31 March 2008 by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method for valuing the liabilities.
The assumptions that had the most effect on the results of this valuation for funding purposes are those relating to the discount rate and inflation on scheme liabilities and mortality assumptions.
There are numerous schemes operated by overseas subsidiaries.
Of these the largest US scheme is assessed annually by an actuary, and the other overseas defined benefit schemes are normally assessed periodically by independent actuaries in accordance with local practice.
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired former employees of the Groups subsidiaries in the US.
These schemes are generally unfunded.
The last full valuations of all schemes on an IAS 19 basis have been updated to 31 March 2010 to reflect market conditions and material events in the plans.
iii Defined benefit schemes major assumptions The major assumptions made when valuing the liabilities of funded and unfunded schemes under IAS 19 are as follows: As at 31 March 2010 the major financial assumptions were: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other % % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.95 N A 4.24 3.02 2 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.80 3.18 2.59 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.50 5.95 5.39 5.95 5.23 Inflation rate 3.70 2.50 3.13 2.56 As at 31 March 2009 the major financial assumptions were: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other % % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.35 4.00 3.93 2.88 2 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.60 2.86 2.44 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 6.30 7.75 6.39 7.75 6.39 Inflation rate 3.10 2.50 2.83 2.35 1 The assumptions used for medical trend rates for beneficiaries of the US healthcare scheme were 8.3% per annum, declining to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2010 2009: 8.5% declining to 4.5%: 2008: 9.5% declining to 5.0%.
2 The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK is in line with RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%.
| 98 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 As at 31 March 2008 the major financial assumptions were: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other % % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.95 4.00 3.81 1.48 2 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.80 2.78 1.11 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 6.10 6.55 6.07 6.55 5.93 Inflation rate 3.70 2.50 3.10 2.17 1 The assumptions used for medical trend rates for beneficiaries of the US healthcare scheme were 8.3% per annum, declining to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2010 2009: 8.5% declining to 4.5%: 2008: 9.5% declining to 5.0%.
2 The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK is for increases in line with RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%.
The demographic assumptions which were consistently applied for the main schemes are as follows: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Standard actuarial mortality tables PA92 were adopted using year of birth and medium cohort projections.
Probability of death at each age was multiplied by 122% for males and 135% for females.
Future improvements in life expectancy have been allowed for in line with medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.00% for males and 1.25% for females.
By way of illustration the impact of the application of these mortality tables on the expected longevity of pensioners is shown below: Years Retiring today at age 65: Male 21.0 Female 23.4 Retiring in 20 years at age 65: Male 22.7 Female 25.8 Invensys Pension Plan US The mortality table adopted was the RP 2000 Table for combined employee annuitants, projected to 2015 using projection scale AA.
Sensitivities Invensys Pension Scheme UK The Invensys Pension Scheme UK is the largest scheme within the Group, representing 74% of gross liabilities of all defined benefit schemes.
The principal sensitivities, with all other variables held constant, are illustrated below: Defined benefit Net 1 obligation Assets effect m m m 2 A 0.1% increase in the assumed inflation rate would have the following effect : Increase in defined benefit obligation increase in scheme assets 50 30 20 3 A 0.1% decrease in the assumed interest rate would have the following effect : Increase in defined benefit obligation increase in scheme assets 60 45 15 A 1 year increase to the pensioners lives would have the following effect: Increase in defined benefit obligation 145 145 Applying an additional 0.25% underpin to the improvement in mortality would have the following effect: Increase in defined benefit obligation 30 30 1 The movement of assets in this table shows the estimated impact on asset values arising from a change of market conditions consistent with the change in discount rate and inflation assumptions shown.
2 This sensitivity assumes that a 0.1% increase in future inflation expectations result in a 0.1% increase in all inflation related pension increase assumptions.
As a result of the upper and lower limits on the majority of inflation related pension increases, a given change in the inflation assumption may result in a smaller change in pension increase assumptions and hence smaller change in the liabilities particularly where such a change in inflation is large.
3 This illustrates the sensitivity of assets and liabilities to a 0.1% change in bond yields.
The discount rate used to determine the liabilities is based on AA corporate bond yields.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued US healthcare scheme Increase Decrease A 1% movement in the assumed rate of increase in US healthcare costs would have the following effects: m m US healthcare scheme defined benefit obligation: increase decrease 1.5 1.3 iv Defined benefit schemes income and expenses The amounts that have been recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2010 are set out below: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged credited to the consolidated income statement: Current service cost continuing operations 7 3 5 3 18 Settlements 1 1 Curtailments 34 2 36 Total charge credit to operating profit 7 31 5 19 Expected return on plan assets 204 48 11 263 Interest on plan liabilities 221 57 14 2 6 300 Other finance charges IAS 19 17 9 3 2 6 37 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 263 2 23 288 Experience gains losses arising on the scheme liabilities 72 6 5 1 70 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities 504 177 49 3 15 748 Decrease in restriction of asset recognised 1 1 Actuarial loss gain 169 181 25 2 16 389 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note 25 vii 56 56 | 100 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The amounts that were recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2009 are set out below: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged credited to the consolidated income statement: Current service cost continuing operations 9 7 5 2 23 Settlements 2 2 Total charge to operating profit 9 7 5 21 Expected return on plan assets 206 50 12 268 Interest on plan liabilities 230 51 13 3 6 303 Other finance charges IAS 19 24 1 1 3 6 35 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 301 65 42 408 Experience gains losses arising on the scheme liabilities 96 5 10 1 1 111 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities 191 92 16 1 7 307 Actuarial loss gain 14 32 16 2 6 10 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 20 20 The amounts charged credited to operating profit were charged credited to the following lines in the consolidated income statement: 2010 2009 m m Cost of sales 10 9 Administrative costs 8 12 Other exceptional items 37 Total net credit charge to operating profit 19 21 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued v Defined benefit schemes changes in present value of defined benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Opening present value of defined benefit obligation 3,618 859 210 34 127 4,848 Current service cost 7 3 5 3 18 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 223 57 12 3 8 303 Interest on plan liabilities 221 57 14 2 6 300 Actuarial losses gains 432 183 49 2 16 678 1 Transfers 13 13 2 Settlements 4 4 Curtailments 34 2 36 Exchange adjustments 29 4 2 5 32 Closing present value of defined benefit obligation 4,056 982 283 29 120 5,470 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows: Funded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 Expected return on plan assets 204 48 11 263 Contributions by employer 47 13 8 68 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 223 57 12 292 Actuarial gains 263 2 23 288 Transfers from to other schemes 2 2 Exchange adjustments 39 3 36 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Actual return on plan assets 467 50 34 551 1 During the year, the German unfunded plan has been amalgamated with the German funded plan.
2 The gain of 4 million relating to the defined benefit obligation is offset by a loss of 3 million relating to payments as a result of an agreement reached to settle the liabilities, resulting in a net gain on settlements of 1million recognised in the income statement.
| 102 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2009 were as follows: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Opening present value of defined benefit obligation 3,888 695 211 26 119 4,939 Current service cost 9 7 5 2 23 Contributions by employees 1 1 2 Benefit payments 223 50 9 2 13 297 Interest on plan liabilities 230 51 13 3 6 303 Actuarial gains 287 97 26 2 6 418 Transfers 1 1 Settlements 4 2 6 Exchange adjustments 253 18 9 21 301 Closing present value of defined benefit obligation 3,618 859 210 34 127 4,848 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2009 were as follows: Funded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 4,722 Expected return on plan assets 206 50 12 268 Contributions by employer 49 9 6 64 Contributions by employees 1 1 2 Benefit payments 223 50 9 282 Actuarial losses 301 65 42 408 Settlements 4 4 Exchange adjustments 248 17 265 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 Actual return on plan assets 95 15 30 140 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued vi Defined benefit schemes reconciliation of balance sheet amounts Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2010: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,056 982 283 29 120 5,470 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Deficit in the plan 154 162 86 29 120 551 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note 25 vii 30 30 Net liability 184 162 86 29 120 581 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 184 162 86 29 120 581 Net liability 184 162 86 29 120 581 Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2009: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,618 859 210 34 127 4,848 Fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 Deficit in the plan 8 4 48 34 127 221 Restrictions of asset recognised 1 1 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note 25 vii 86 86 Net liability 94 4 49 34 127 308 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 94 4 49 34 127 308 Net liability 94 4 49 34 127 308 vii Impact of IFRIC 14 The Group is committed to make payments to the UK Main Pension Scheme under a deficit funding plan agreed with the Trustees.
Where the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the Scheme as measured under IFRS, and would therefore, when paid, give rise to a surplus as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any part of that surplus that would not be recoverable.
Any surplus on the UK Main Pension Scheme ultimately repaid by the Trustees would currently be subject to a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid, so a liability for this tax is recognised at the relevant balance sheet date.
At 31 March 2010 the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability ofthe scheme under IFRS and consequently the irrecoverable element of the pension surplus is 30 million 2009: 86 million.
| 104 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2010 2009 As at 31 March m m IAS 19 net defined benefit obligation 154 8 Future minimum funding requirements 239 254 Potential future pension surplus 85 246 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 30 86 Recoverable element of potential future pension surplus 55 160 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 56 20 As required by IAS 19 liabilities for each scheme are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
This is an accrued benefits valuation method that discounts the best estimate of future cash flows and makes allowance for projected earnings.
If the UK Main Pension Scheme were to be wound up, the relevant employers would be responsible, under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995 to fund the UK Main Pension Scheme up to the levels of the cost of buying out the benefits for all scheme members with an insurer.
This cost would be considerably more than the value placed on the ongoing liabilities for accounting purposes.
The deficit in the UK Main Pension Scheme calculated on a winding up basis was approximately 1.4 billion as at 31 March 2008, the date of the last actuarial valuation.
This will be reviewed and updated at the next valuation.
viii Defined benefit schemes expected rate of return and analysis of scheme assets The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2010 are: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value % m % m % m m Equities 8.0% 331 7.8% 144 8.0% 97 572 Bonds 5.0% 2,630 6.3% 242 5.1% 68 2,940 Other 6.8% 941 6.5% 434 6.2% 32 1,407 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2009 were: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value % m % m % m m Equities 8.2% 268 7.7% 101 8.4% 68 437 Bonds 5.4% 2,352 6.6% 240 5.0% 61 2,653 Other 5.8% 990 6.4% 514 6.2% 33 1,537 Fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2008 were: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value % m % m % m m Equities 8.3% 428 8.2% 116 7.7% 60 604 Bonds 4.6% 2,677 6.1% 334 5.0% 66 3,077 Other 6.9% 773 7.0% 213 5.9% 55 1,041 Fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 4,722 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The expected return on each asset class has been determined on the basis of market expectations for the rate of return on each asset class over the life of the related obligation, at the balance sheet date.
In respect of the UK Main Pension Scheme, Government and Corporate Bond indices have been used to set the expected rate of return on bonds, and a risk premium has been applied to determine the expected long-term rate of return on equity investments.
Similar processes are applied to other schemes.
The investment strategy determined by the Trustees of the Invensys Pension Scheme continues to reflect the mature nature of the Scheme with assets predominantly invested in bonds or bond like investments.
ix Defined benefit schemes history of experience adjustments Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2010 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,056 982 283 29 120 5,470 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Deficit in the plan 154 162 86 29 120 551 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 72 6 5 1 70 Experience adjustments on plan assets 263 2 23 288 Year ended 31 March 2009 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,618 859 210 34 127 4,848 Fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 Deficit in the plan 8 4 48 34 127 221 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 96 5 10 1 1 111 Experience adjustments on plan assets 301 65 42 408 Year ended 31 March 2008 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,888 695 211 26 119 4,939 Fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 4,722 Deficit in the plan 10 32 30 26 119 217 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 11 7 1 3 1 13 Experience adjustments on plan assets 34 16 12 30 Year ended 31 March 2007 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,099 738 214 32 119 5,202 Fair value of plan assets 3,856 637 188 4,681 Deficit in the plan 243 101 26 32 119 521 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 11 10 4 2 27 Experience adjustments on plan assets 156 8 5 143 Year ended 31 March 2006 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,235 806 222 37 125 5,425 Fair value of plan assets 4,007 700 229 4,936 Deficit surplus in the plan 228 106 7 37 125 489 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 53 10 2 14 55 Experience adjustments on plan assets 293 4 13 302 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is a loss of 385 million 2009: 52 million.
| 106 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 x Pensions and post-retirement benefits other Total pension service costs charged to the income statement in respect of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes amounted to 30 million 2009: 35 million.
The estimated levels of contributions expected to be paid to defined benefit schemes in the year to 31 March 2011 are as follows: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m 49 13 8 3 11 84 Regarding rates of contributions for future years, contributions to the UK Main Pension Scheme will be made at the rate of 19.8% of pensionable salaries up to the date ofthe next triennial valuation.
In addition, the Company will continue to make annual supplemental contributions to the scheme.
These amount to 38 million in the year ending 31 March 2011 and 39 million in the year ending 31 March 2012 increasing by 1 million per annum until 31 March 2014 and then 2 million per annum thereafter until 2017.
Where the proceeds from the sale of a business exceed 1 million, at least 8% of the proceeds net of tax and costs will be paid as additional contributions to the UK Main Pension Scheme.
The funding plan is subject to revision after the next triennial valuation which will have a reference date of31 March 2011.
Under the US plan, the Companys agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation provided for additional contributions of 4% of net proceeds from future disposals.
The following graph shows a projection of the benefit payments from the UK Main Pension Scheme based on the assumptions underlying the IAS 19 assessment of obligations at 31 March 2010: 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2010 2016 2022 2028 2034 2040 2046 2052 2058 Year | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107 benefit payments m Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Trade and other payables 2010 2009 Note m m Non-current Other payables 10 12 10 12 Current Trade payables 271 247 Accruals and deferred income 167 156 Interest payable 1 4 Other payables 90 103 529 510 Total trade and other payables 539 522 Classification to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22i 495 468 Non-financial liabilities 44 54 539 522 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are on average normally settled on 56-day terms.
Interest payable on the Groups borrowing facility is settled quarterly.
Other payables include sales taxes, social security and payroll taxes, payroll creditors, customer advances not related to construction contracts, payments received from customers in advance ofwork performed on construction contracts and commissions payable.
The majority of non-current other payables will mature in more than one year but in less than two years: there is a small proportion that will mature in over five years.
The maturity profile of trade and other payables classified as financial liabilities is given in Note 22.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of both current and non-current trade and other payables approximates to their fairvalue.
27 Issued capital Issued share capital Number Number of shares of shares million m million m Issued and fully paid: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Ordinary shares of 10p each 807 81 801 80 | 108 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 A reconciliation of the issued, allotted and fully paid share capital is as follows: Number Share of shares capital million m At 1 April 2008 797 80 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 4 At 31 March 2009 801 80 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 6 1 At 31 March 2010 807 81 Under the Companies Act 2006, the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital was abolished with effect from 1October 2009.
Therefore at the 2009 AGM the Company amended its Articles of Association Articles such that, amongst other things, its authorised share capital would be removed with effect from 1 October 2009.
As such, references to authorised share capital are no longer required.
B shares As part of the capital reduction undertaken by the Company on 22 January 2009, the Company allotted, issued and subsequently cancelled 801,285,978 B shares of 1.1574129021 each 927 million.
The B shares were issued on 20 January 2009 by way of a bonus issue to ordinary shareholders on the basis of one B share for every one ordinary share held.
The new B shares were paid up in full by applying the full amount of the Companys merger reserve.
The B shares had limited rights, in particular they carried no rights to participate in the profits of the Company, no rights to participate in the Companys assets, save on a winding up, and no right to attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company.
The B shares were not admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange or any other market and no share certificates were issued in respect of them.
All the B shares were cancelled as part of the capital reduction approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales at a final hearing on 21 January 2009.
Further details of the capital reduction are included in Note 28.
Shares reserved for issue under share options and awards During the year the Company issued 6,051,095 ordinary shares of 10 pence each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS, Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 1998 LTIP and 2007 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP 2009: 4,347,302 under the SRSOS, 1998 LTIP, Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan TBOP and 2007 LTIP.
On 24 June 2009, 14 September 2009 and 7 December 2009 conditional awards over a total of 6,956,484 shares were granted under the 2007 LTIP 2009: 5,153,308 under the 2007 LTIP.
There were 13,765,202 conditional awards outstanding under the 1998 LTIP and 2007 LTIP at 31 March 2010 2009: 16,553,645.
These conditional awards will be released at various dates between 2010 and 2012, subject to the satisfaction of the performance requirements and any appropriate holding period.
As at 31 March 2010, outstanding shares awarded under the CEO Special Award were 1,608,554 2009: 1,608,554.
These will be released, subject to the satisfaction of the performance requirements and appropriate holding period, at various dates between 2010 and 2011.
As at 31 March 2010, outstanding executive share options exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition, at various dates between 2010 and 2014 and at various prices between 154.59 pence and 2,311.33 pence per ordinary share, and at a weighted average price of 937.18 pence per ordinary share, were 1,134,026 2009: 1,461,805.
Outstanding options under the Companys various savings related share option schemes at 31 March 2010, exercisable at various dates between 2010 and 2013 and at various prices between 175.00 pence and 387.03 pence per ordinary share, and at a weighted average price of 387.03 pence per ordinary share, were 18,487 2009: 20,700, and at a weighted average price of 175.00 pence per ordinary share, were 2,928,317 2009: nil.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27 Issued capital continued Treasury shares Treasury shares comprise shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust and restricted shares.
The movement in treasury shares is set out below: Number of shares m At 1 April 2008 1,766,545 7 Purchase of shares 920,815 2 Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes 2,272,826 8 At 31 March 2009 414,534 1 Purchase of shares 2,723,442 8 Transfer of legal title of restricted shares 570,076 1 Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes 2,907,596 8 At 31 March 2010 800,456 2 Shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust The Invensys No.
2 Employee Benefit Trust the Trust was established on 24 April 2007.
At 31 March 2010, the Trust held 230,380 10 pence ordinary shares in Invensys plc with a market value of 1 million 2009: 414,534 10 pence ordinary shares with a market value of 1 million.
The Trust purchases shares in the market in order to satisfy obligations under the various share option and share award schemes operated by the Company.
All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this purpose and are distributed to employees in accordance with the terms of the Companys schemes.
Shares held by the Trust are accounted for as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
Restricted shares 570,076 restricted shares with a market value of 1 million 2009: nil were issued on 15 March 2010 as a replacement award for the remaining shares still to be issued under the 2006 LTIP Award, RSP and DSP awards.
Participants receiving the restricted shares are required to retain them until the service condition is satisfied on the vesting date of the original award in June 2010.
If the service conditions are not satisfied on this date, legal ownership of the share reverts to Invensys plc.
These shares are accounted for as treasury shares as at 31 March 2010.
28 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves The analysis of the balance and movement on other equity reserves is shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The nature and purpose of these reserves are as follows: Share premium account This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital redemption reserve This reserve arose when the Company repurchased its own shares for cancellation as part of a return of capital programme and is non-distributable.
Subsequently, in the year ended 31 March 2005, 3,499,780,822 deferred shares of 24 pence each were cancelled, in accordance with their terms of issue.
The total balance on the reserve was cancelled as part of the Court approved capital reduction on 22 January 2009 see page 111.
Capital reserve Previously the Group merger reserve, this reserve was created on the merger of BTR plc and Siebe plc in February 1999 and is nondistributable.
927 million of the balance on the reserve, representing the balance on the Parent companys merger reserve, was applied to pay up in full the B shares issued as part of the capital reduction on 22 January 2009 see page 111.
Special reserve This reserve represents the balance remaining after the elimination of the deficit in the reserves of the Parent company following the capital reduction on 22 January 2009 see page 111.
The reserve will remain pending the protection or consent of creditors or contingent creditors of the Parent company in existence at the date of the capital reduction.
Cash flow hedge reserve This reserve records, for each hedged item in an effective cash flow hedge, the cumulative change in fair value of the expected future cash flow on the hedged item from the inception of the hedge relationship.
Foreign exchange reserve The foreign exchange reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the foreign exchange on net investments in these subsidiaries.
| 110 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Capital reduction and cancellation of certain reserves in the year ended 31 March 2009 On 26 November 2008 the shareholders of Invensys plc approved proposals for a capital reduction and the cancellation of certain reserves in order to create distributable reserves and allow the payment of dividends.
The capital reduction subsequently received approval from the High Court of Justice in England and Wales at a final hearing on 21 January 2009 and became effective the following day.
The capital reduction and cancellation of reserves were achieved as follows: a the amount standing to the credit of the merger reserve of the Parent company 927 million was capitalised by way of a bonus issue of newly created B shares see page 60 to 61 : b the newly created B shares were cancelled see page 60 to 61 : c the amount standing to the credit of the capital redemption reserve 923 million was cancelled: d 392 million of the balance standing to the credit of the share premium account was cancelled: and e the balance remaining in the reserves of the Parent company after the elimination of its deficit was transferred to a special reserve which will remain pending the protection or consent of creditors or contingent creditors of the Parent company in existence at the date of the capital reduction.
29 Share-based payment plans The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding as detailedbelow: Plans for senior employees Executive share options Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme Grant details An executive share option scheme under which options have been granted to directors and senior executives at no cost.
Options are exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date at a price equal to the average middle market quoted price of the Companys shares over the five dealing days which precede the date of grant.
Options are satisfied by the issue of new shares or in the case of awards granted as share appreciation rights, in cash.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: a for grants made prior to 25 July 2001, earnings per share EPS performance of RPI 12% over a three-year period to be applied each year until the earlier of when the condition is met or the measurement period the last financial year of which is the year preceding that in which the option will lapse: and b for grants made on 17 June 2002 and after, total shareholder return TSR performance against a peer group of the FTSE 100 over a performance period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of grant.
40% would be exercisable if the median position is achieved, rising to 100% if upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these two points the option would vest on a straight-line basis.
If the performance condition is not met in full at the first measurement then it would be retested against the fixed base in years four and five.
If the median position is not achieved by the end of the fifth year the option would lapse.
No performance conditions are attached to the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on 1 June 2004.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for a certain period of time in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use No options were granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
The Company can no longer make grants under this scheme as the scheme expired in July 2008.
Details of executive share options outstanding under this scheme including the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on 1 June 2004, are as follows:.
2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share options price p share options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,461,805 1,253.02 2,745,406 1,160.14 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 34,104 1,607.43 24,587 1,855.82 Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year 293,675 2,431.44 1,259,014 1,038.73 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,134,026 937.18 1,461,805 1,253.02 Exercisable at the end of the year 1,134,026 937.18 1,461,805 1,253.02 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year Weighted Weighted average average remaining Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years 2010 154.59p 535,290 154.59 4.2 1,213.72p to 2,311.33p 598,736 1,636.85 0.9 1,134,026 937.18 2.5 2009 154.59p 535,290 154.59 5.2 1,213.72p to 2,601.17p 926,515 1,887.63 1.6 1,461,805 1,253.02 2.9 Long-term incentives Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Grant details A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no or nominal cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: a a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment unless the Company determines otherwise : b a conditional share award: or c a cash award granted in respect of a notional number of shares.
Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period.
For awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 the retention period was two years: for awards made on or after 22 July 2005, 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the performance requirements will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being deferred for one year.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: TSR test TSR ranked against a peer group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee with no retesting opportunities.
TSR must rank at the median position when the peer group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 25% of the shares subject to the award to be available subject to the retention period, rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the number of shares will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
If at least median position is not achieved the whole award will lapse.
The peer groups selected for the relevant awards are as follows: awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant: and awards granted on or after 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokogawa.
Overall performance test The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that: a for awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 there has been a sustained delivery over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group indebtedness: b for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins have been met: 1 achievement of stretching internal free cash flow targets: and 2 efficient management of legacy liability items: and c for awards granted on or after 1 June 2006 that two underpin tests have been met: 1 relating to the successful completion of the 2006 Refinancing and in addition that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group: and 2 efficient management of legacy liability items.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use No awards were granted under this scheme during the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
Given that no further awards could be granted under the LTIP after July 2008, a new share-based long-term incentive plan, the Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan was established and approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Details of this scheme are given on page 113.
| 112 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Details of relevant LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number of awards of awards 2010 2009 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,590,076 15,628,653 Granted during the year Dividends during the year 8,859 Forfeited during the year 118,749 1,255,718 Exercised during the year 6,305,102 5,082,617 Lapsed during the year 1,247,876 700,242 Outstanding at the end of the year 927,208 8,590,076 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 251 pence 2009: 260 pence.
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.3 years 2009: 0.6 years.
2007 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP Grant details A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no or nominal cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: a a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment unless the Company determines otherwise : b a conditional share award: or c a cash award granted in respect of a nominal number of shares.
Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award.
There is no retention period.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards would be subject to two independent performance conditions.
For executive directors a 50% of an award would be based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 50% of an award would be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
For all other participants a 35% of an award would be based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 35% of an award would be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to ensure that, as a condition for vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group must be satisfactory.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions, in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use The 2007 LTIP is used as the Groups main share-based long-term incentive plan under which share awards are granted.
The first grants under this plan were made in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below: LTIP awards LTIP awards granted in the granted in the year ended year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Total number of awards granted 7,255,510 5,347,163 Weighted average fair value 171.18p 221.54p Exercise price n a n a Expected volatility n a n a Weighted average expected award life 3.0 years 3.0 years Expected dividend yield 0% 0% Risk free interest rate n a n a | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Details of relevant 2007 LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number of awards of awards 2010 2009 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7,988,320 3,942,411 Granted during the year 7,255,510 5,347,163 Dividends during the year 2,725 Forfeited during the year 1,338,709 1,246,504 Exercised during the year 42,146 14,022 Lapsed during the year 310,993 40,728 Outstanding at the end of the year 13,554,707 7,988,320 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 233 pence 2009: 146 pence.
The 2007 LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years 2009: 1.9 years.
2007 CEO Special Award Special Award Grant details Approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Special Award is a one-off conditional share award granted to the Chief Executive equal to 700% of his 2007 08 base salary.
The Special Award is subject to a three-year performance period.
50% of vested shares will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being released after a 12 month holding period.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflect those applying to the 2007 LTIP with some elements being more demanding.
The Special Award is split into two layers, each of which vests on a different basis.
For the first layer equal to 200% of base salary, 20% will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance.
For the second layer equal to 500% of base salary, there will be no vesting for threshold performance, but 100% will vest for maximum performance.
Vesting in each layer will be on a straight-line basis between these points.
For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP.
However, for the TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile.
This has been calculated by the advisers to the Remuneration Committee as outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 i. e. 40%.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use The Special Award is a one-off grant at no cost.
No grants were made in the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
The one-off grant made during the year ended 31 March 2008 is detailed below: Special Award granted in the year ended 31 March 2008 Total number of awards granted 1,608,554 Weighted average fair value 204.22p Exercise price n a Expected volatility n a Weighted average expected award life 3.5 years Expected dividend yield 0% Risk free interest rate n a | 114 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Details of the Special Award outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number of awards of awards 2010 2009 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,608,554 1,608,554 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 1,608,554 1,608,554 The Special Award outstanding at the end of the year has a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.9 years 2009: 1.9 years.
Invensys Restricted Share Plan RSP Grant details A restricted share plan whereby awards, to be satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior employees at no cost.
The vesting period for awards is determined separately for each award.
Vesting periods normally fall between one and five years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards are not subject to a specific performance condition apart from continued employment throughout the vesting period and satisfactory personal performance.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below: RSP awards RSP awards granted in the granted in the year ended year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Total number of awards granted 1,188,039 1,919,571 Weighted average fair value 219.97p 207.56p Weighted average exercise price n a n a Expected volatility n a n a Weighted average expected award life 2.1 years 1.5 years Expected dividend yield 0% 0% Risk free interest rate n a n a Details of relevant RSP awards including a separate restricted share award granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on1 June 2004 outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number of awards of awards 2010 2009 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,371,225 2,812,563 Granted during the year 1,188,039 1,919,571 Dividends during the year 10,202 Forfeited during the year 153,082 90,279 Exercised during the year 2,143,495 1,270,630 Lapsed during the year 46,251 Outstanding at the end of the year 2,226,638 3,371,225 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 267 pence 2009: 184 pence.
The RSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.6 years 2009: 0.9 years.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan TBOP Grant details The Company introduced the TBOP in 2005 06 under which executives had the opportunity to receive a supplemental bonus of up to 100% of their base salary in respect of the relevant financial year to be paid in shares upon reaching specified target levels of performance.
The TBOP operated in addition to the existing Executive Bonus Plan EBP.
Any bonuses earned under the TBOP the Overlay Bonus are payable in shares with 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of those shares being awarded and the other 50% being released following the second anniversary.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The amount of the Overlay Bonus which in turn determines the level of the award is set by reference to the performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: Release of the shares is generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date although shares may be released early in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The first grant under the TBOP was made on 1 June 2006.
It was originally anticipated that the TBOP would be operated up to and including the financial year 2007 08.
However, as a result of the changes made to the annual incentive arrangements for 2007 08 onwards as detailed in the Remuneration Report, the TBOP ceased to be operated one year early.
The final awards under the TBOP were granted in the year ended 31 March 2008 in respect of the financial year 2006 07.
Details of relevant TBOP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number of awards of awards 2010 2009 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 496,628 1,812,833 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 46,906 Exercised during the year 496,628 1,269,299 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 496,628 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 237 pence 2009: 320 pence.
No TBOP awards remained outstanding at 31 March 2010.
Deferred Share Plan DSP Grant details The DSP was introduced in 2007 08 to replace the TBOP.
Any bonus earned under the EBP for 2007 08 in excess of target performance was paid in deferred shares, with any bonus earned up to the target performance being paid in cash.
The shares are released to the individual after three years in the case of executive directors and two years for all other participants.
All awards are satisfied by shares purchased in the market.
For 2008 09 onwards the DSP is only used for executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team: in all other respects the same terms apply as outlined in the previous paragraph.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The amount of shares granted is set by reference to the performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: Save where a participant is dismissed for cause before the relevant release date, shares under award will be released to participants on the release date, unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion should decide on a different release date.
Scheme use The first grant under the DSP was made on 24 July 2008 and was used for all participants in the EBP who earned bonuses in excess of target.
In the future, where applicable, bonus in excess of target performance will only be paid in deferred shares to executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team.
Bonus payments for all other members of the EBP will be paid entirely in cash.
| 116 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Grants made during the year ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below: DSP awards DSP awards granted in the granted in the year ended year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Total number of awards granted 307,038 497,953 Exercise price n a n a Expected volatility n a n a Weighted average expected award life 2.5 years 2.3 years Expected dividend yield n a n a Risk free interest rate n a n a Details of relevant DSP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number of awards of awards 2010 2009 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 489,729 Granted during the year 307,038 497,953 Dividends during the year 1,871 Forfeited during the year 12,997 3,403 Exercised during the year 144,460 4,821 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 641,181 489,729 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 292 pence 2009: 156 pence.
The DSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.3 years 2009: 1.5 years.
All employee schemes Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme Grant details The scheme which operates in the UK, is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the date of invitation.
The vesting period for the operations is three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The Scheme operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore not subject to performance conditions other than that a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for a certain period of time in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis.
An invitation was offered under this Scheme in the year ended 31 March 2010.
The options granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 are detailed below: Options granted in the year ended 31 March 2010 Total number of awards granted 1,275,082 Weighted average fair value 68.70p Exercise price 175.00p Expected volatility 31% Expected option life 3 years Expected dividend yield 1.0% Risk free interest rate 2.3% | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share options price p share options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 20,700 430.39 111,067 431.93 Granted during the year 1,275,082 175.00 Forfeited during the year 12,574 176.53 Exercised during the year 536 175.00 5,763 130.77 Lapsed during the year 23,114 233.30 84,604 453.00 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,259,558 178.11 20,700 430.39 Exercisable at the end of the year The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 175 pence 2009: 251 pence.
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year Weighted Weighted average average remaining Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years 2010 175.00p 1,241,071 175.00 2.3 387.03p 18,487 387.03 0.5 1,259,558 178.11 2.3 2009 387.03p 18,578 387.03 1.5 810.05p 2,122 810.05 0.5 20,700 430.39 1.4 Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme Grant details The Scheme operates in a number of overseas countries where it has proved advantageous and practicable based on the numbers of eligible employees and local legal and tax requirements.
It is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
The vesting period for the options is three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: There are no performance conditions, other than that a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
| 118 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The options granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 are detailed below: Options granted in the year ended 31 March 2010 Total number of awards granted 1,727,599 Weighted average fair value 68.70p Exercise price 175.00p Expected volatility 31% Expected option life 3 years Expected dividend yield 1.0% Risk free interest rate 2.3% Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share options price p share options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 22,168 387.03 Granted during the year 1,727,599 175.00 n a Forfeited during the year n a n a Exercised during the year 112 175.00 n a Lapsed during the year 40,241 175.00 22,168 387.03 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,687,246 175.00 Exercisable at the end of the year n a n a The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 175 pence 2009: n a.
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year Weighted Weighted average average remaining Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years 2010 175.00p 1,687,246 175.00 2.3 1,687,246 175.00 2.3 2009 387.03p 22,168 387.03 0.5 22,168 387.03 0.5 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Measurement of fair value Share awards An adjusted market value method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions has been used to calculate the fair value of all share awards granted during the year.
Share options The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to calculate the fair value of all share options granted during the year.
These options were granted under savings related share option schemes for which vesting is not dependent on market conditions.
Expected volatility was based on both historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous ten years and on the implied volatility of traded options of the Groups shares.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Share-based payment expense The Group recognised total expenses of 11 million 2009: 12 million related to share-based payment transactions during the year, of which 9 million 2009: 11 million related to equity-settled and 2 million 2009: 1 million related to cash-settled transactions.
The carrying amount of the liability relating to the cash-settled awards at 31 March 2010 is 2 million 2009: 2million.
30 Commitments and contingencies Capital expenditure Capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment contracted at the balance sheet date but for which no provision has been made in the accounts amounted to 3 million 2009: 1 million.
Operating leases The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, motor vehicles and items of plant and equipment.
Land and buildings leases are generally subject to periodic rent reviews.
Some leases have renewal options.
These are at the option of the Group, sometimes subject to a minimum notice period.
In some cases rent escalations are set out in the lease contract.
There are no material contingent rents payable.
No significant restrictions are placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Operating lease payments 2010 2009 m m Minimum lease payments 43 39 Contingent rents Sublease payments 2 Operating lease payments 43 37 Operating lease commitments Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Not later than one year 42 8 50 43 7 50 After one year but not more than five years 113 9 122 101 9 110 Later than five years 95 95 66 66 250 17 267 210 16 226 The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 March 2010 is 20million 2009: 18 million.
| 120 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Obligations under finance leases At 31 March 2010 future minimum payments due under finance leases and similar hire purchase arrangements together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Present Present Minimum value of Minimum value of lease minimum lease minimum payments payments payments payments 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Payable after one year but not more than five years 1 1 1 1 Total gross payments 1 1 1 1 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods Present value of finance lease obligations 1 1 Amount due for settlement within 12 months Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1 1 There were no sublease arrangements in place for these assets at 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
The Group leases a small proportion of its plant and equipment under finance leases, but does not currently have any significant finance lease arrangements.
The average effective borrowing rate for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 7% 2009: 5%.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Groups finance lease liabilities are secured against the assets to which they relate.
Contingent liabilities Group companies have given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal in the normal course of business.
Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of former subsidiaries.
At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to a liability to the Group under these performance guarantees.
By 31 March 2010, these arrangements had come to an end and no longer gave rise to a contingent liability to the Group.
2009: 2 million, being the total amount of such borrowings outstanding at that date.
No member of the Group is engaged in nor so far as the directors are aware has pending, or is threatened by, or has against it any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31 Reconciliation of cash flows 2010 2009 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 166 298 Capital expenditure included within investing activities 70 56 Interest paid 9 8 Exceptional finance costs 1 Pension contributions on disposal of operations 12 Taxation paid operating 41 34 Restructuring 46 41 PPP settlement proceeds 95 Legacy items: Pension contributions 60 42 Other legacy payments 13 13 73 55 Operating cash flow 265 298 Restructuring 46 41 Net finance costs paid received 5 2 Exceptional finance costs 1 PPP settlement proceeds 95 Sale of financial assets 32 Taxation paid operating 41 34 Legacy items 73 55 Free cash flow 100 296 Operating cash flow attributable to: Continuing operations 265 298 265 298 The directors consider that the best measure of the Groups cash performance is free cash flow as calculated above.
32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals i Business combinations Year ended 31 March 2010 There were no acquisitions in the year.
Year ended 31 March 2009 On 21 August 2008, Invensys plc acquired 100% of the share capital of SAT Corporation, a Houston-based mobile solutions company, for a cash consideration of 30 million.
On 17 September 2008, Invensys plc acquired 100% of the share capital of Quantum Engineering Inc. a signalling and train controls company specialising in onboard equipment, from its management, for a cash consideration of 20 million.
The acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The Group Financial Statements include the results of SAT Corporation and Quantum Engineering Inc. for the period from their date of acquisition to 31 March 2009.
As these business combinations are individually immaterial, the following information is presented in aggregate for the acquired businesses.
| 122 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses at the dates of acquisition was: Previous Fair value carrying recognised value on acquisition m m Property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 1 Intangible assets other 11.9 Trade and other receivables 2.6 2.6 Inventories 1.9 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 2.5 2.5 Trade and other payables 1.9 4.5 Net assets 5.9 15.2 Goodwill arising on acquisition 35.5 Total acquisition cost 50.7 The total acquisition cost comprised: cash paid 50.3 costs directly attributable to the acquisition 0.4 50.7 Cash outflow on acquisition: cash paid 50.7 net cash acquired with acquisition 2.5 Net cash outflow 48.2 1 The intangible assets are classified as development costs.
The acquired businesses contributed an operating profit of 0.6 million to the Group for the period from acquisition to 31 March 2009.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Groups revenue from continuing operations would have increased to 2,303 million and the operating profit before exceptional items for the Group would have increased to 245 million.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of SAT Corporation and Quantum Engineering Inc. with those of the Group.
These benefits do not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets separately from goodwill.
ii Business disposals No operations have been discontinued in the year to 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
Additional costs have been incurred in both years, in relation to prior year disposals.
2010 2009 m m Net cash flow arising on disposal: cash costs of disposal 12 20 12 20 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Directors loan and pension commutation Directors loan Mr Henriksson incurs both US and UK tax liabilities in respect of his employment duties undertaken in the US.
Deloitte LLP has advised that the UK tax liabilities paid by Mr Henriksson in respect of such duties should be refunded to him by HM Revenue and Customs HMRC.
However, such refund has been delayed pending a determination by the US and UK tax authorities of the relevant treaty provisions.
Inview of the double taxation suffered, Invensys Systems Inc. advanced 546,000 on 14 April 2009 to Mr Henriksson, being an amount equal to the expected refunds due from HMRC.
This loan is free of any interest and will be repayable within five business days from the date of HMRC making the refund to Mr Henriksson.
Directors pension commutation Kathleen ODonovan left Invensys as Chief Financial Officer on 31 December 2002.
Part of her pension entitlement for service at Invensys was provided through an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme UURBS.
As permitted by her termination agreement, MsODonovan requested a commutation of her UURBS during the year.
The Remuneration Committee agreed to pay 2.1million commutation on a fair value basis, resulting in a reduction in the accrued IAS 19 pension liability.
The cash settlement was made in March 2010, in addition, the Company bore national insurance costs of 268,800.
34 Related party disclosures These Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are included in the listing of Principal Subsidiaries on page 146.
Details of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are as follows: i Remuneration of key management personnel Key management comprises the executive directors.
Remuneration is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Short-term employee benefits 4 3 Post-employment benefits Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share-based payment 2 2 6 5 Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
Post-employment benefits comprise the cost of pensions and post-retirement benefits.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
ii Other related party transactions There are no other related parties transactions that have a material effect on the financial position or performance of the Group in the year 2009: none other than the directors loan disclosed in Note 33.
| 124 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Dividends paid and proposed 2010 2009 m m Paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010: 1.0p 2009: nil 8 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009: 1.5p 2009: nil 12 20 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010: 2.0p 2009: 1.5p 16 12 16 12 The interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 was declared by the Board on 4 November 2009 and paid on 11 December 2009.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 was approved by shareholders on 17 July 2009 and paid on 7 August 2009.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2010, the proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be paid on 6 August 2010 to shareholders on the register at 25 June 2010, and will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Invensys Employee Share Trust has waived its right to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 payable on the 230,380 shares that it owns 2009: 414,534 shares.
The Trust also waived its right to the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 payable on the 458,839 shares that it owned.
36 Events after the balance sheet date Business Combination On 21 April 2010, Invensys acquired 100% of the share capital of Skelta Software, a privately held software company headquartered in Bangalore, India, for a cash consideration of 6.4 million.
The gross assets acquired were approximately 2 million.
The acquisition will be accounted for in the year ending 31 March 2011 using the purchase method of accounting.
The disclosure of further information in these Financial Statements is impracticable because of the short time between the acquisition date and the date in which the Financial Statements were authorised for issue.
37 Exchange rates Year ended Year ended As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 average average closing closing US$ to 1 1.59 1.72 1.50 1.43 Euro to 1 1.13 1.20 1.11 1.08 | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 125
