Invensys Operations Management Invensys Operations Management is a leading global Markets technology, software and consulting business that creates The recession had a significant impact on several of our regional and applies advanced technologies to enable the safe and markets: the impact was felt particularly by our short-cycle efficient operation of industrial and commercial operations measurement and instrumentation and Eurotherm equipment such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, and by our advanced applications in the developed markets petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites.
Excess capacity in these regions, especially in the oil and gas and petrochemicals industries, Invensys Operations Management is the product of the resulted in customers reducing their spending on upgrades ongoing integration of several related businesses into and expansion.
However, some of these markets have shown a single division.
tentative signs of stabilisation or recovery towards the end ofthe year, with several previously delayed projects now Year ended 31 March % % starting to move forward.
change total 1 2010 2009 at CER change In South America, the Middle East and Asia, the market was 2 Orders m 1,096 1,326 23% 17% supported by the award of contracts for the construction of Revenue m 1,000 1,093 14% 9% large greenfield projects in both the oil and gas and power Operating profit m 92 119 28% 23% sectors, meeting the needs of the significant economic growth Operating margin % 9.2% 10.9% in those regions.
Operating cash flow m 147 138 7% Looking forward, we are beginning to see some recovery in Operating cash conversion % 160% 116% our short-cycle products and advanced applications markets, Employees at year end nos 8,176 9,054 but this is unlikely to have a significant impact on our revenue until thesecond half of the year.
However, our success in 1 From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division.
winning contracts for large, complex projects, which enabled Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
us to build order book in the year, should underpin the 2 Decrease mainly due to the booking of the US$250 million China Nuclear order in 2009. divisions performance for the year as a whole.
Developments Revenue by sector The integration of our industrial automation businesses to form Invensys Operations Management is proceeding well Oil and gas 27% General industries 27% and, through restructuring and synergies, we have been able Utilities and power 13% to significantly reduce operating costs.
Discrete manufacturing 11% Petrochemicals 8% We continue to be recognised by customers for our advanced Other 14% applications technologies, our ability to execute the largest and most complex projects in our industries and our specialisation in the nuclear power industry.
Advanced applications including our Revenue by destination Enterprise Control System ECS Royal Dutch Shells Downstream Manufacturing Division UK 6% entered into a multi-year partnership with us.
Shell will Rest of Europe 23% use our Wonderware IntelaTrac mobile workforce and North America 31% South America 6% decision-support solution as one tool in the Ensure Safe Asia Pacic 21% Production initiative at 29 of its global manufacturing Africa Middle East 13% facilities.
Our IntelaTrac system will provide downstream operations with configurable software and rugged, intrinsically-safe mobile hardware to manage the  process and regulatory compliance tasks.
Byimplementing the IntelaTrac module, field operators will be able to optimise work processes, resulting in improved asset reliability and availability and reduced overall maintenance costs.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Invensys Operations Management continued We reached a multi-year agreement with ConocoPhillips In May 2010, we were awarded a major contract by toprovide dynamic simulation for the development of China Nuclear Power Engineering CNPE to implement ConocoPhillips proprietary E-Gas technology.
We will comprehensive safety and non-safety distributed control supply our SimSci-Esscor DYNSIM modelling and systems for Changjiang Nuclear Power Plant, with two simulation software to help improve the design, start-up 650MW pressurised water reactor PWR units under and operation of new coal gasification plants.
In addition, construction in Hainan Island of China.
This contract follows we will be a preferred supplier of dynamic simulation the award of a contract in 2008 for two nuclear power plants, software to licensees of ConocoPhillips E-Gas technology.
each with two 1,000MW PWR units, also under the oversight We have partnered with Codelco, the worlds largest copper of China National Nuclear Corporation.
We will provide an producer, on a corporate-wide development agreement integrated technology platform for both safety and nonto move forward with an ECS approach to improve the safety control systems, using our industry-leading Triconex performance and longevity of Codelcos processing assets, and Foxboro I A Series.
This contract between CNPE and increasing the overall economic value of that companys Invensys for Changjiang Nuclear Power Plant in Hainan business through the use of advanced process control, represents a further step towards long-term cooperation.
advanced regulatory control, real-time business performance Invensys Operations Management continues to seek bolt-on measurement, simulators and operator training systems.
acquisitions to broaden the range of technologies and solutions it is able to sell to its global customer base.
Since the year end, Large and complex projects featuring we announced the acquisition of Skelta Software, a privately control and safety systems held software company headquartered in Bangalore, India.
We were awarded multi-million pound contracts for the Skelta provides business process management BPM and 400,000 barrels of oil per day Jubail Export Refinery Project advanced workflow software solutions.
JERP in Saudi Arabia, which is due to be completed in 2013.
We will be providing a broad range of solutions, including Performance control and safety systems, asset management software and Order intake was 1,096 million 2009: 1,326 million, down simulation software.
23% at CER mainly due to the incidence of the US$250million We signed a deal with Coastal Gujarat Power Limited, a China Nuclear order last year and the market weakness for wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Power Limited, to provide short-cycle products and advanced applications in Europe end-to-end integrated services and solutions that will fully andNorth America.
The order book at 31March 2010 was optimise Indias first ultra-mega 4,000MW power plant.
It 972million, with around 47% represented by emerging markets.
willbe Indias largest coal-fired power plant when completed in 2013.
We will provide distributed and critical control Revenue for the year was down 14% atCER at 1,000 million systems, our Triconex emergency shutdown systems and 2009: 1,093 million, benefitting from revenue from large SimSci-Esscor advanced process control, plant projects awarded last year.
optimisation and operator training simulator technology.
Operating profit was 92 million 2009: 119 million, down 28% at CER, with the effect of the reduced revenue partially Nuclear power offset by cost savings.
Operating margin was 9.2% 2009: Bruce Power, Canadas first private nuclear generating 10.9%, with a stronger second half which produced an company and the source of more than 20% of Ontarios operating margin of 11.2%.
electricity, selected software solutions from our Wonderware brand to manage its equipment condition We produced strong operating cash flow of 147 million and performance monitoring project.
Wewill provide a full 2009:138 million, resulting in a further improvement in suite of software and technology solutions to help Bruce cashconversion for the year to 160% 2009: 116%.
Power effectively monitor major assets distributed across their eight units.
| 20 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
