Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Group is generally in a sound financial position with net andthe Financial Statements in accordance with applicable cash, a 400 million banking facility in place until 2013, and UnitedKingdom law and those International Financial Reporting well-established relationships with key customers and suppliers.
Standards adopted by the European Union or, in the case of the The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company Companys Financial Statements, UK GAAP.
and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Company law requires the directors to prepare Company and existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue Group Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual the directors must not approve the financial statements unless Financial Statements.
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of their profit or loss for Directors responsibility statement that period.
In preparing the Company and Group Financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Statements, the directors are required to: a the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting consistently: Standards as adopted for use in the European Union, give a present information, including accounting policies, in a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the understandable information: consolidation as a whole: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the b the Business Review includes a fair review of the development specific requirements in applicable accounting standards is and performance of the business and the position of the insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation particular transactions, other events and conditions on the as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and entitys financial position and financial performance: and uncertainties that they face.
state that the Company and the Group have complied with By order of the Board applicable accounting standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Company and of the Group and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial U C I Henriksson W Edmunds Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 23 May 2010 Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors of Invensys plc are listed on page 7.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to 30.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 14 to 17.
Note 22 to the Financial Statements includes: the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, along with mitigating actions, are set out on pages 28 to 30.
| 54 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
