75 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Section 1 Basis of preparation Responsibility Governance Financial statements This section lays out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to which it relates.
This section also shows new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, whether these are effective in 2010 or later years.
In both cases we explain how they are expected to impact the performance of the Group.
The financial statements consolidate those of ITV plc, the Company limitations on the decision-making powers of their management and and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and include that result in the Group receiving the majority of the benefits related the Groups interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
to the SPEs operations and net assets, being exposed to the majority The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
of risks incidental to their activities and receiving the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPEs or their assets.
As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Groups accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Current non-current distinction Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS, and approved by the directors.
Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended The financial statements are principally prepared on the basis of for sale or use in, the course of the Groups operating cycle.
Areas where other bases are applied are identified in assets are classified as non-current assets.
Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities.
Going concern As a result of the funding activities undertaken, improvements in Classification of financial instruments working capital, disposals and the upturn in television advertising, the The financial assets and liabilities of the Group are classified into the Group has in 2010 reduced its current level of net debt and has also following financial statement captions in the statement of financial improved both its short-term and medium-term liquidity position.
position in accordance with IAS 39: financial instruments: The Group continues to review forecasts of the television advertising Loans and receivables separately disclosed as cash and cash market to determine the impact on ITVs liquidity position and will equivalents excluding gilts over which unfunded pension promises continue to evaluate opportunities to push out maturity and create have a charge and trade and other receivables: further cash headroom.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, Available for sale financial assets measured at fair value through show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its other comprehensive income.
Includes gilts over which unfunded current funding.
pension commitments have a charge and equity securities that do not meet the definition of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates: After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence Held to maturity investments: for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the Financial assets liabilities at fair value through profit or loss going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
separately disclosed as derivative financial instrumentsassets liabilities: and Subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and special purpose entities Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost separately disclosed Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the as borrowings and trade and other payables.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity in order to obtain benefits Details on the accounting policies for measurement of the above from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are instruments are set out in the relevant note.
currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest under a contractual arrangement where the Group and one or more other The Group recognises a financial asset or liability when it becomes a parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Financial instruments are no longer recognised in The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures using the equity the statement of financial position when the contractual cash flows method.
Under the equity method the investment in the entity is expire or when the Group no longer retains control of substantially all the stated as one line item at cost plus the investors share of retained risks and rewards under the instrument.
post-acquisition profits and other changes in net assets.
Cash and cash equivalents An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint venture, Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits with over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence maturity of less than or equal to three months from the date of is the power to participate in the financial and operating decisions acquisition, cash held to meet certain finance lease commitments of an entity but is not in control or joint control over those policies.
and gilts over which unfunded pension promises have a charge.
These investments are also accounted for using the equity method.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents is considered to The Group establishes special purpose entities SPEs for trading and approximate fair value.
An SPE is consolidated if, based on an evaluation of the substance of its relationships with the Group and the SPEs risks and rewards, it is concluded that the Group controls the SPE.
Those SPEs controlled by the Group are established under terms that impose strict 76 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 1 Basis of preparation continued Foreign currencies Accounting estimates and judgements The primary economic environment in which the Group operates is the The preparation of financial statements requires management to UK.
The consolidated financial statements are therefore presented in exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may Where Group companies based in the UK transact in foreign currencies, differ from these estimates.
these transactions are translated into pounds sterling at the exchange rate on that day.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, translated into pounds sterling at the year-end exchange rate.
Where with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised there is a movement in the exchange rate between the date of the and in any future periods affected.
transaction and the year-end, a foreign exchange gain or loss may arise.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are set Any such differences are recognised in the income statement.
Nonout below and in more detail in the related notes: monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated into pounds sterling at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Revenue recognition note 2.1 The assets and liabilities of Group companies outside of the UK Classification of financial instruments included in this note are translated into pounds sterling at the year-end exchange rate.
Consolidation of SPEs included in this note The revenues and expenses of these companies are translated into pounds sterling at the average monthly exchange rate during the year.
The areas involving the most sensitive estimates and assumptions that Where differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in are significant to the financial statements are set out below and in more the translation reserve within equity and other comprehensive income.
detail in the related notes: Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups interests Intangible assets note 3.3 in joint ventures and associates are recognised in the translation reserve Impairment of assets note 3.2 and note 3.3 within equity and other comprehensive income.
Programme rights and other inventory note 3.1 In respect of all Group companies outside of the UK only those translation differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date of Trade receivables note 3.1 transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
Taxation note 2.3 On disposal of an interest in a joint venture or an associate, the related translation reserve is released to the income statement as part of the Defined benefit pension schemes note 3.6 gain or loss on disposal.
Employee benefits note 4.7 Provisions note 3.5 Application of new or amended EU endorsed accounting standards Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IFRS 8: Operating Segments IFRS 8 was amended to state that segment information for The Group has not disclosed total assets since this total assets is only required if such information is regularly information is not regularly reported to the CoDM.
reported to the chief operating decision-maker CoDM.
IAS 1: Presentation of Financial IAS 1 was amended to state that the classification of the The holders of ITVs convertible bond have no Statements liability component of a convertible instrument as current or ability to force early conversion of the convertible non-current is not affected by terms that, at the option of bond, and therefore the liability component the holder, result in settlement of the liability through issue continues to be held as a non-current liability.
IAS 17: Leases Classification of The standard was amended such that leases over a long The Group continues to hold such leases as leases of land and buildings several decades period of time may now be classified as a operating leases.
finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
IAS 36: Impairment of Assets The standard was amended to confirm that the largest The Group has reconsidered the allocation of unit to which goodwill can be allocated is the operating goodwill in the current year see note 3.3. segment level, as defined in IFRS 8, before applying the aggregation criteria.
The directors considered the impact of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that are currently endorsed but not yet effective.
It was concluded that none were relevant to the Groups results.
77 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Section 2 Results for the year Responsibility Governance Financial statements This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group.
On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Groups results for the year, segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share.
2.1 Profit before tax This section analyses the Groups profit before tax by reference to the activities performed by the Group and an analysis of key operating costs.
Earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and exceptional items remains the Groups key profit indicator.
This reflects the way the business is managed and how the directors assess the performance of the Group.
Accounting policies Broadcasting & Online ITV Studios Other Consolidated 2009 2009 2009 2009 Revenue recognition m m m m Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT and consists of sales of goods and Total segment revenue 1,543 597 1 2,141 services to third parties.
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised Intersegment revenue 262 262 when the Group has transferred both the significant risks and rewards of Revenue from ownership and control of the products sold and the amount of revenue external customers 1,543 335 1 1,879 can be measured reliably.
EBITA before Key classes of revenue are recognised on the following bases: exceptional items 111 91 202 Share of profits or losses Class of revenue Recognition criteria of joint ventures and Advertising on transmission or display associated undertakings 4 3 7 Sponsorship on transmission of the sponsored programme or series Broadcasting & Online is responsible for commissioning and scheduling Programme production on delivery programmes on the ITV channels, marketing and programme publicity and online rights exploitation.
It derives its revenue primarily from the Programme rights when contracted and available for sale of advertising airtime and sponsorship.
Other sources of revenue are exploitation from online advertising, participation revenue and the digital terrestrial Multiplex services as the service is provided multiplex, SDN.
Participation revenues as the service is provided ITV Studios derives its revenue primarily from ITV Studios UK a Participation revenues relate to interactive and red button services and arise principally in the commercial programme production company, international production Broadcasting & Online segment.
centres in America, Germany, Sweden and Australia and the distribution and exploitation businesses in ITV Studios Global Entertainment.
Segmental information A proportion of revenue is generated internally via programme sales to Operating segments, which have not been aggregated, are reported in the Broadcasting & Online segment.
ITV Studios Global Entertainment a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the sells programming, exploits merchandising and licensing worldwide, Board of directors, regarded as the chief operating decision-maker.
and is a distributor of DVD entertainment in the UK.
The Board of directors considers the business primarily from a product Depreciation in the year was 30 million 2009: 38 million, of which or activity perspective.
The reportable segments for the years ended 19 million 2009: 25 million relates to Broadcasting & Online and 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 are therefore Broadcasting & 11 million 2009: 13 million to ITV Studios.
Online, ITV Studios and Other 2009 only the results of which are Sales between segments are carried out at arms-length terms.
outlined below: In preparing the segment information, costs have been allocated Broadcasting between reportable segments consistently on the basis of a relevant & Online ITV Studios Consolidated 2010 2010 2010 allocation methodology.
For example, rent is allocated on the basis m m m of square feet occupied.
This reflects the basis of reporting to the Total segment revenue 1,771 554 2,325 Board of directors.
Intersegment revenue 261 261 Revenue from external customers 1,771 293 2,064 EBITA before exceptional items 327 81 408 Share of profits or losses of joint ventures and associated undertakings 3 3 78 Section 2 Results for the year continued The Board of directors assess the performance of the reportable The number of employees excluding short-term contractors and segments based on a measure of EBITA before exceptional items.
freelancers, calculated on a weighted average basis, during the year was: This is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible 2010 2009 assets and operating exceptional items.
The Board of directors uses Broadcasting & Online 2,312 2,606 this measurement basis as it excludes the effect of non-recurring ITV Studios 1,635 1,908 income and expenditure.
Amortisation, investment income and share of profit losses of joint ventures and associates are also excluded to Other 5 reflect more accurately how the business is managed and measured 3,947 4,519 on a day-to-day basis.
Net financing costs are not allocated to segments as this type of activity is driven by the central treasury function, which Details of the directors emoluments, share options, pension manages the cash position of the Group.
entitlements and long-term incentive scheme interests are set out in the Remuneration report.
A reconciliation of EBITA before exceptional items to profit before tax is provided as follows: Operating leases 2010 2009 The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable m m operating leases fall due for payment as follows: EBITA before exceptional items 408 202 2010 2009 Operating income exceptional items 19 53 m m Amortisation and impairment of intangible Within one year 11 13 assets 63 59 Later than one year and not later than five years 38 39 Net financing costs 75 91 Later than five years 138 145 Share of profits or losses of joint ventures and 187 197 associated undertakings 3 7 Loss on sale and impairment of non-current These leases primarily relate to the Groups properties, which principally assets exceptional items 4 22 comprise offices and studios.
Leases typically run for a period of between Gain loss on sale and impairment of five and ten years and may have an option to renew after that date.
subsidiaries and investments exceptional items 4 51 Lease payments are typically subject to market review every five years to reflect market rentals, but because of the uncertainty over the Profit before tax 286 25 amount of any future changes, such changes have not been reflected The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
Its revenue in the table above.
None of the leases include contingent rentals.
from external customers in the United Kingdom is 1,865 million The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be 2009: 1,621 million, and the total revenue from external customers received under non-cancellable subleases at the year end is 8 million in other countries is 199 million 2009: 258 million.
Revenues of approximately 400 million 2009: 324 million, The total operating lease expenditure recognised during the year was 270 million 2009: 194 million, 202 million 2009: 190 million 12 million 2009: 14 million and total sublease payments received was and 196 million 2009: 226 million are derived from four external 5 million 2009: 4 million.
The Groups major customers are all media buying agencies acting on behalf of a number of customers.
These revenues are Audit fees attributable to the Broadcasting & Online segment and contain the only customers which individually represent over 10% of the Groups revenues.
The Group engages KPMG Audit Plc KPMG on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with Operating costs the Group are important.
The Groups policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee report.
Staff costs Fees paid to KPMG during the year are set out below: Staff costs can be analysed as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Fees payable to KPMG for the audit of the Wages and salaries 212 244 Groups annual accounts 0.7 0.7 Social security and other costs 32 33 Fees payable to KPMG and its associates for Share-based compensation see note 4.7 8 11 other services: Pension costs 17 16 The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 269 304 pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Other services supplied pursuant Staff costs within exceptional items were 11 million 2009: 32 million to legislation 0.2 0.4 and principally relate to redundancy payments.
Total staff costs Other services relating to taxation 0.8 0.2 including exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2010 are Services relating to corporate finance 280 million 2009: 336 million.
transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Group or any of its associates 0.6 All other services 0.1 1.9 2.2 Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
79 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 2.2 Exceptional Items Exceptional items are excluded from managements assessment of profit.
In managements judgement exceptional items are material and non-recurring.
They are excluded in order to understand the Groups underlying quality of earnings and reflect how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis.
Accounting policies C Pension scheme changes see note 3.6 Exceptional items, as disclosed on the face of the income statement, are Operating exceptional gains of 28 million were recognised in 2010 in items that due to their material and non-recurring nature have been relation to changes made to the ITV Pension Scheme.
These included: classified separately in order to draw them to the attention of the reader a past service credit of 25 million in relation to the introduction of a of the financial statements.
member option to change pension payments at retirement: Exceptional items a past service credit of 2 million in relation to the one-off change to pension payments: and Operating and non operating exceptional items are analysed as follows: a settlement gain of 1 million in relation to the enhanced transfer 2010 2009 Charge credit Ref.
Operating exceptional items: In 2009 operating exceptional gains of 110 million were recognised for Reorganisation and restructuring costs A 40 17 the following: Onerous contract provisions 1 1 a curtailment gain of 72 million for changes that were made to Onerous property provision B 7 14 implement a cap on increases to pensionable salary levels: and Pension scheme changes C 28 110 a 38 million past service credit for changes made offering retired Kangaroo closure costs 2 members the option of altering the structure of their pension Total net operating exceptional items 19 53 by receiving an uplift now in return for giving up rights to future annual increases.
Non-operating exceptional items: Loss on sale and impairment of D Loss on sale and impairment of non-current assets non-current assets D 22 4 The 4 million 2009: 22 million loss on sale and impairment of nonGain loss on sale and impairment of current assets relates to: subsidiaries and investments E 4 51 Total non-operating exceptional items 73 a net 3 million 2009: 14 million impairment on property, plant and equipment no longer used at properties expected to be vacated: Total exceptional items before tax 19 20 a net 1 million 2009: 3 million loss arising on the disposal of A Reorganisation and restructuring costs property, plant and equipment: and In 2010 a charge of 17 million 2009: 40 million was recognised in a nil 2009: 5 million impairment on properties, included within relation to cost saving restructuring initiatives.
assets held for sale, to reflect their estimated market value.
B Onerous property provision E Gain loss on sale, net of impairment, of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates A 7 million credit 2009: charge of 14 million in respect of sublet property at Grays Inn Road was recognised during the year.
The 4 million gain on sale, net of impairment of subsidiaries, joint This provision release relates to changes in the anticipated use of the ventures and associates principally relates to the sale of Screenvision US site previously expected to be excess space, as a result of significant Technicolor Cinema Advertising LLC as disclosed in note 3.4. headcount reductions in 2009.
This provision was raised as an operating In 2009 the net 51 million loss principally included a 32 million exceptional in 2009, and therefore the partial release of this provision impairment loss on Friends Reunited: 5 million net loss on sale of has been credited to operating exceptional items.
subsidiaries: 9 million net impairment of joint ventures and associates: and a 6 million charge in relation to Carlton Screen Advertising Limited CSA being put into creditors voluntary liquidation.
80 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 2 Results for the year continued 2.3 Taxation This section lays out the tax accounting policies, the current and deferred tax charges or credits in the year which together make up the total tax charge or credit in the income statement, a reconciliation of profit or loss before tax to the tax charge or credit and the movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Accounting policies Taxation Income statement The tax charge for the period is recognised in the income statement and The total taxation charge credit in the income statement is analysed the statement of comprehensive income, according to the accounting as follows: treatment of the related transaction.
The tax charge comprises both 2009 2010 current and deferred tax.
m m Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable Current tax: income or loss for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect Current tax charge before exceptional items 64 13 of previous years.
The current tax charge is based on tax rates that are Current tax credit on exceptional items 3 10 enacted or substantively enacted at the year-end.
61 3 The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on Adjustment for prior periods 68 estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due, which 61 65 requires judgement.
Amounts are accrued based on managements Deferred tax: interpretation of specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the Origination and reversal of amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the temporary differences 53 21 income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such Deferred tax on exceptional items 8 31 determination is made.
Adjustment for prior periods 14 Deferred tax arises due to certain temporary differences between the 45 4 carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes Total taxation charge credit in the and those for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are income statement 16 69 not provided for: In order to understand how, in the income statement, a tax charge of the initial recognition of goodwill: 16 million arises on a profit before tax of 286 million, the taxation the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither charge that would arise at the standard rate of UK corporation tax is accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: reconciled to the actual tax charge as follows: and 2010 2009 m m differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Profit before tax 286 25 Taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner 28% 2009: 28% 80 7 of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is Non-taxable non-deductible exceptional items 21 probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilise the Non-taxable income non-deductible expenses 1 8 temporary difference.
Recognition of tax losses brought forward 68 26 Recognition of deferred tax assets, therefore, involves judgement Over provision in prior periods 82 regarding the timing and level of future taxable income.
Deferred tax Other 3 3 assets and liabilities are disclosed net to the extent that they relate to Total taxation charge credit in the taxes levied by the same authority and the Group has the right of set off.
income statement 16 69 Non-deductible expenses are expenses that are not expected to be allowable for tax purposes.
Similarly non-taxable income is income that will not be taxed.
81 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Tax losses brought forward may be utilised against current year profits if At Recognised in At 1 January the income Recognised 31 December the brought forward losses and the current year profits are of the same 2009 statement in equity 2009 type.
Use of tax losses in this way leads to a reduction of the tax charge.
m m m m Tax losses of 68 million 2009: 26 million include a credit for utilisation Property, plant and of financing losses linked to previous investments loan relationship equipment 15 16 1 deficits of 16 million 2009: 23 million and the recognition of Intangible assets 95 13 82 deferred tax of 45 million 2009: 3 million on the remaining loan Programme rights 4 2 2 relation deficits and a credit of 5 million 2009: nil on the recognition of a deferred tax asset on other losses.
Pension scheme deficits 49 25 98 122 Interest-bearing loans and Over provision in prior periods may arise if a more favourable outcome is borrowings, and derivatives 1 1 obtained for tax purposes than was expected when the provision was Share-based compensation 4 3 7 made.
Upon confirmation that the more favourable tax treatment will apply, the over provision may be released to lower the current year tax Unremitted earnings of charge.
The opposite is true of under provisions.
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 3 3 The emergency budget on 22 June 2010 announced a change to the UK Other 2 2 4 corporation tax rate from 28% to 27%.
This was substantially enacted on 20 July 2010 and will be effective from 1 April 2011.
This will reduce 55 4 101 50 the Groups future tax charge and accordingly deferred tax assets and At 31 December 2010, total deferred tax assets are 139 million liabilities have been revalued at 27%.
2009: 136 million and total deferred tax liabilities are 66 million The effective tax rate is the tax charge or credit on the face of the 2009: 86 million.
income statement expressed as a percentage of the profit or loss The deferred tax balance relating to: before tax.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the effective tax rate is lower 2009: lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax property, plant and equipment principally relates to timing primarily because circumstances have changed such that the Group is differences arising on assets qualifying for capital allowances: now making taxable profits, and it is envisaged that it will be possible to intangible assets mainly relates to timing differences on intangible utilise brought forward tax losses.
As set out in the financial review ITV assets arising on business combinations: uses an adjusted tax rate to show the cash tax impact on its adjusted earnings.
programme rights relates to timing differences on intercompany profits on stock: Taxation Other comprehensive income pension scheme deficits relates to timing differences on the IAS 19 Within other comprehensive income a tax charge totalling 22 million pension deficit as well as the spreading of tax relief on one-off large 2009: credit of 101 million has been recognised representing deferred pension funding payments: tax.
An analysis of this is included below in the deferred tax movement table.
tax losses relates to timing differences in receiving the benefit of the Groups tax losses: Taxation Statement of financial position interest-bearing loans and borrowings and derivatives relates The table below outlines the deferred tax assets liabilities that are to timing differences on hedging instruments: recognised in the statement of financial position, together with their share-based compensation relates to timing differences on movements in the year: share schemes: At Recognised in At 1 January the income Recognised 31 December unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 2010 statement in equity 2010 relates to tax losses of associated companies: and m m m m Property, plant and other relates to timing differences on miscellaneous items including equipment 1 1 2 sale and leaseback arrangements and various provisions.
Intangible assets 82 17 65 A deferred tax asset of 45 million in relation to carried forward loan Programme rights 2 2 relationship deficits of 168 million has been recognised after the Pension scheme deficits 122 24 22 76 utilisation in 2010 of part of the loan relationship deficits on which deferred tax was not recognised at 31 December 2009.
Additionally a Tax losses 50 50 deferred tax asset of 5 million has been recognised in relation to other Interest-bearing loans and carried forward tax losses.
The deferred tax on these losses has now been borrowings, and derivatives 1 1 recognised as circumstances have changed such that the Group is now Share-based compensation 7 7 making taxable profits and it is envisaged that it will be possible to utilise Unremitted earnings of these losses going forward.
subsidiaries, associates and The deferred tax balance associated with the pension deficit has been joint ventures 3 3 adjusted to reflect the current tax benefit obtained in the current year Other 4 2 2 following the contribution of 171 million to the Groups defined benefit 50 45 22 73 pension scheme.
A deferred tax asset of 602 million 2009: 625 million in respect of capital losses of 2,230 million 2009: 2,230 million has not been recognised due to uncertainties as to the amount and whether a capital gain will arise in the appropriate form and relevant territory against which such losses could be utilised.
For the same reasons, deferred tax assets in respect of overseas losses of 9 million 2009: 10 million that time expire between 2017 and 2026 have not been recognised.
82 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 2 Results for the year continued 2.4 Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the Group profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company of 269 million 2009: 91 million divided by 3,884 million 2009: 3,882 million being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all share options being exercised and assumes that the 135 million convertible bond is converted to shares in its entirety.
Basic EPS is adjusted in order to more accurately show the business performance of the Group in a consistent manner and reflect how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis.
Adjusted EPS is adjusted for exceptional items, impairment of intangible assets, amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, net financing cost adjustments and prior period and other tax adjustments.
2009 The calculation of basic, diluted and adjusted EPS is set out below: Adjusted Diluted Ref.
m m Basic earnings per share Profit for the year attributable to equity 2010 shareholders of the parent company 91 92 Basic Diluted Ref.
m m Exceptional items B 41 41 Profit for the year attributable to equity Profit for the year before exceptional items 132 133 shareholders of the parent company 269 270 Amortisation and impairment of acquired Weighted average number of ordinary shares intangible assets C 37 37 in issue million 3,884 3,884 Adjustments to net financing costs D 9 9 Dilution impact of share options 27 Prior period tax adjustments 82 82 Dilution impact of convertible bond A 192 Other tax adjustments E 26 26 Total weighted average number of ordinary shares Adjusted profit F 70 71 in issue million 3,884 4,103 Total weighted average number of ordinary shares Earnings per ordinary share 6.9p 6.6p in issue million 3,882 4,087 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 1.8p 1.7p 2009 A Diluted earnings per share are impacted by the 135 million 2016 Basic Diluted Ref.
m m Convertible Eurobond issued in November 2009.
Profit for the year attributable to equity B The exceptional items detailed in Section 2.2 are adjusted to reflect shareholders of the parent company 91 92 profit for the year before exceptional items.
The 2010 exceptional items Weighted average number of ordinary shares include a related tax effect of a charge of 5 million 2009: charge of in issue million 3,882 3,882 21 million.
Dilution impact of share options 13 C Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets of Dilution impact of convertible bond A 192 48 million 2009: 51 million is adjusted, including a related tax credit Total weighted average number of ordinary shares of 13 million 2009: 14 million.
The rationale for adjustments to in issue million 3,882 4,087 amortisation of intangibles is provided in the Financial and performance review.
Earnings per ordinary share 2.3p 2.3p D Adjustments to net financing costs of 6 million 2009: 12 million Adjusted earnings per share includes a related tax effect of a credit 2 million 2009: credit of 3 million.
The rationale for adjustments made to financing costs is 2010 provided in the Financial and performance review.
E Other tax adjustments reflect the reversal of the credit arising from Profit for the year attributable to equity the recognition of the deferred tax asset generated on certain losses shareholders of the parent company 269 270 partially offset by those losses utilised in the current year.
Exceptional items B 14 14 F Adjusted profit is defined as profit for the year before exceptional Profit for the year before exceptional items 255 256 items, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, net Amortisation and impairment of acquired financing cost adjustments and other tax adjustments.
intangible assets C 35 35 Adjustments to net financing costs D 4 4 Other tax adjustments E 47 47 Adjusted profit F 247 248 Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 3,884 4,103 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 6.4p 6.0p 83 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities Responsibility Governance Financial statements This section shows the assets used to generate the Groups trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result.
Liabilities relating to the Groups financing activities are addressed in Section 4.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in Section 2.3.
On the following pages there are sections covering working capital, non-current assets, other payables due after more than one year, provisions and pensions.
3.1 Working capital Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates through its trading activity.
The Group therefore defines working capital as distribution rights, programme rights and other inventory, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
Careful management of working capital is vital as it ensures that the Group can meet its trading and financing obligations within its ordinary operating cycle.
One of the Groups key performance indicators is profit to cash conversion: the effective management of working capital will help meet the Group target that its profit to cash ratio on a rolling three year basis is at least 90%.
In the following section you will find further information regarding working capital management and analysis of the elements of working capital.
Accounting policies Programme costs and rights not yet written-off are included in the statement of financial position at the lower of cost and net realisable Distribution rights value.
In assessing net realisable value for programmes in production, consideration is given to the contracted sales price and estimated costs Distribution rights are programme rights acquired from producers to complete.
For programme stock, sports rights and film rights, the net primarily for the purposes of commercial exploitation through onward realisable value assessment is based on estimated airtime value, with distribution to customers, principally through licensing to broadcasters, consideration given to whether the number of transmissions purchased and are classified as non-current assets as these rights are used to derive can be efficiently played out over the licence period.
Any reversals of long-term economic benefit for the Group.
write downs for programme costs and rights are recognised as a reduction in operating costs.
Distribution rights are recognised initially at cost and charged through operating costs in the income statement over a maximum five year Historically, ITV has entered into sale and leaseback agreements in period that is dependent on cumulative sales and programme genre, or relation to certain programme titles.
Related outstanding sale and based on forecast future sales.
Certain film rights are expensed over a leaseback obligations, which comprise the principal and accrued interest, period of up to 10 years reflecting the estimated longer period over are included within borrowings.
The finance related element of the which these types of rights can be exploited.
These estimates are agreement is charged to the income statement over the term of the based on historical experience with similar rights as well as anticipation lease on an effective interest basis.
Sale and leaseback obligations are of future events.
Advances paid for the acquisition of distribution rights secured against an equivalent cash balance held within cash and cash are disclosed as distribution rights as soon as they are contracted.
These advances are not expensed until the programme is available for distribution.
Up to that point they are assessed annually for impairment Trade receivables through the reassessment of the future sales expected to be earned Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice from that title.
sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable amortised cost.
Where payments are not due for more Programme rights and other inventory than one year, they are shown in the financial statements at their Where programming, sports rights and film rights are acquired for net present value to reflect the economic cost of delayed payment.
the primary purpose of broadcasting, these are recognised within The Group provides goods and services to substantially all its customers current assets.
Assets are recognised when the Group controls the respective assets and Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, in the risks and rewards associated with them.
For acquired programme the opinion of the directors, be collected.
These estimates include such rights, assets are recognised as payments are made and are recognised factors as historical experience, the current state of the UK and overseas in full when the programme is available for transmission.
Programmes economies and industry specific factors.
A provision for impairment of produced internally, either for the purpose of broadcasting or to be sold trade receivables is established when there is sufficient evidence that the in the normal course of the Groups operating cycle, are recognised Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
within current assets at production cost.
The carrying value of trade receivables is considered to approximate Programme costs and rights, including those acquired under sale and fair value.
leaseback arrangements are generally expensed to operating costs in full on first transmission.
However, film rights and certain acquired programmes are expensed over a number of transmissions reflecting the pattern in which the right is consumed.
84 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities continued Programme rights and other inventory written off in the year was Trade payables 3 million 2009: 11 million.
There have been no reversals relating to Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from inventory previously written down to net realisable value 2009: nil.
3 Programme commitments The carrying value of trade payables is considered approximate to fair value.
There are operating commitments in respect of programming entered into in the ordinary course of business with programme suppliers, sports Working capital management organisations and film distributors in respect of rights to broadcast on the ITV network.
Commitments in respect of these purchases, which are Cash and working capital management continues to be a key focus.
not reflected in the statement of financial position, are due for payment During the year the cash inflow from working capital was 99 million as follows: 2009: 121 million as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Within one year 396 377 Decrease in programme rights and other inventory and distribution rights 108 125 Later than one year and not more than five years 315 396 Increase decrease in receivables 8 11 711 773 Decrease in payables 1 15 Working capital inflow 99 121 3.1.
4 Trade and other receivables The majority of the working capital improvement came through Trade and other receivables can be analysed as follows: reduced inventory levels for programme and distribution rights, as a 2010 2009 result of managing commitments and just-in-time commissioning.
1 Distribution rights Trade receivables 354 353 Movements in distribution rights during the year are shown in the Other receivables 14 22 table below: Prepayments and accrued income 74 57 2010 2009 m m 442 432 Cost: Due after more than one year: At 1 January 99 82 Trade receivables 6 7 Additions 12 17 6 7 At 31 December 111 99 Total trade and other receivables 448 439 360 million 2009: 360 million of total trade receivables that are not Charged to income statement: impaired are aged as follows: At 1 January 83 69 2010 2009 Expense for the year 16 14 m m At 31 December 99 83 Current 301 230 Up to 30 days overdue 7 43 Net book value 12 16 Between 30 and 90 days overdue 1 8 Over 90 days overdue 51 79 3.1.
2 Programme rights and other inventory 360 360 The programme rights and other inventory at the year-end are shown With a focus on cash collection, the ageing of trade receivables has in the table below: improved significantly in the year.
The 51 million balance over 90 days 2010 2009 overdue principally relates to non-consolidated licensee customers.
m m Acquired films 170 207 Production 52 48 Commissions 36 73 Sports rights 21 23 Prepayments 4 36 Other 1 1 284 388 85 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements As at 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 8 million 2009: 3.1.
5 Trade and other payables due within one year 8 million were provided against.
Movements in the Groups provision Trade and other payables due within one year can be analysed for impairment of trade receivables can be shown as follows: as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m At 1 January 8 14 Trade payables 56 83 Charged during the year 5 4 Social security 16 13 Receivables written-off during the year Other payables 183 162 as uncollectible utilisation of provision 1 6 Accruals and deferred income 417 388 Unused amounts reversed 4 4 672 646 At 31 December 8 8 3.1.
6 Trade payables due after more than one year Trade receivables that are less than 90 days overdue are not usually considered impaired.
The majority of the 8 million provision is therefore Trade payables due after more than one year can be analysed as follows: held against trade receivables that are over 90 days overdue.
2010 2009 m m Trade receivables of 59 million 2009: 130 million were past due but not impaired.
Of this, 55 million 2009: 88 million relates to nonTrade payables 26 31 consolidated licensee customers in the Broadcasting & Online segment This relates to film creditors for which payment is due after more than where the Group has supplier and customer relationships.
amounts relating to these same customers of 12 million 2009: 1 million and 5 million 2009: 7 million are included in current trade receivables and other receivables respectively.
There is also a credit of 49 million 2009: credit of 61 million included in trade and other payables relating to these customers.
The net balance due from non-consolidated licensees is therefore 23 million 2009: 35 million, the majority of which relates to STV Group plc.
3.2 Property, plant and equipment The following section shows the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits.
These assets include office buildings and studios, as well as various items of equipment used in broadcast transmission, programme production and for support activities.
The cost of these assets is the amount initially paid for them.
A depreciation expense is charged to the income statement to reflect annual wear and tear and the reduced value of the asset.
Depreciation is calculated by estimating the number of years the Group expects the asset to be used useful economic life.
If there has been a technological change or decline in business performance the directors review the value of assets to ensure they have not fallen below their depreciated value.
If an assets value falls below its depreciated value an additional one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
This section also explains the accounting policies followed by ITV and the specific estimates made in arriving at the net book value of these assets.
Accounting policies All other leases are operating leases, the rentals on which are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Certain items of property, plant and Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment that were revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, their estimated useful lives.
The annual depreciation charge is sensitive being the revalued amount less depreciation up to the date of transition.
to the estimated useful life of each asset and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
The major categories of property, plant and Leases equipment are depreciated as follows: Finance leases are those which transfer substantially all the risks and Asset class Depreciation policy rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Assets held under such leases are Freehold land not depreciated included within property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a Freehold buildings up to 60 years straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Outstanding finance Leasehold properties shorter of residual lease term or 60 years lease obligations, which comprise the principal plus accrued interest, are included within borrowings.
The finance element of the agreements is Leasehold improvements shorter of residual lease term or charged to the income statement over the term of the lease on an estimated useful life effective interest basis.
Vehicles, equipment 3 to 20 years and fittings 86 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities continued Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment that is subject to depreciation is reviewed annually for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Indicators of impairment may include changes in technology and business performance.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment can be analysed as follows: Freehold land Improvements to leasehold and buildings land and buildings Vehicles, equipment and fittings Total Long Short Owned Finance leases m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 49 69 20 241 15 394 Additions 14 14 Reclassification 5 1 4 Reclassification to assets held for sale 14 14 Disposals and retirements 4 40 44 At 31 December 2009 54 50 20 211 15 350 Additions 5 22 27 Reclassification 3 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 3 2 5 Disposals and retirements 5 3 8 At 31 December 2010 52 52 20 225 15 364 Depreciation At 1 January 2009 13 8 149 4 174 Charge for the year 3 3 2 27 3 38 Impairment charge for the year see note 2.2 6 2 4 2 14 Reclassification 3 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 5 5 Disposals and retirements 1 31 32 At 31 December 2009 12 12 14 144 7 189 Charge for the year 1 1 1 25 2 30 Impairment charge for the year see note 2.2 1 2 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 1 1 Disposals and retirements 5 3 8 At 31 December 2010 8 12 16 168 9 213 Net book value At 31 December 2010 44 40 4 57 6 151 At 31 December 2009 42 38 6 67 8 161 Included within the book values above is expenditure of 9 million 2009: 3 million on property, plant and equipment that is in the course of construction.
Capital commitments There are 2 million of capital commitments at 31 December 2010 2009: 1 million.
87 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 3.3 Intangible assets The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate the revenues and profits of the business.
These assets include goodwill, brands, customer contracts and relationships, licences, software development and film libraries.
The cost of these is the amount that the Group has paid or, where there has been a business combination, the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets that can be sold separately or arise from legal rights.
In the case of goodwill, the cost is the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business in excess of the fair value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired.
The value of goodwill is that intangible value that comes from, for example, a uniquely strong market position and the outstanding productivity of its employees.
The value of intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, is expensed to the income statement over the number of years the Group expects to use the asset, the useful economic life, via an annual amortisation charge.
Where there has been a technological change or decline in business performance the directors review the value of assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised value.
Should an assets value fall below its amortised value an additional one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
This section explains the accounting policies followed by the Group and the specific estimates made in arriving at the net book value of these assets.
Accounting policies Method 2: All business combinations that occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2008 have been accounted for by applying the Goodwill purchase method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004.
Goodwill on these combinations represents the difference Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from assets between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable that are not capable of being individually identified and separately net assets acquired and did not include the value of the non-controlling recognised.
The goodwill recognised by the Group has all arisen as a interest.
Transaction costs that the Group incurred in connection with a result of business combinations.
business combination, such as legal fees, due diligence fees and other Due to changes in accounting standards, the goodwill shown on the professional and consulting fees, are included in the cost of acquisition.
Groups statement of financial position has been calculated using Method 3: For business combinations prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill three different methods depending on the date of acquisition of the is included at its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded related business: under UK GAAP at that time less amortisation up to 31 December 2003.
Method 1: All business combinations that have occurred since 1 January The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations 2009 are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Under this occurring prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has not method, goodwill is measured as the fair value of the consideration been reconsidered as permitted under IFRS 1.
Goodwill is stated at its transferred including the recognised amount of any non-controlling recoverable amount being cost less any accumulated impairment losses interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount at fair value and is allocated to cash-generating units.
of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured at the acquisition date.
Subsequent adjustments to the fair values of Other intangible assets net assets acquired can be made within 12 months of the acquisition Other intangible assets are those that are identifiable and can be sold date where original fair values were determined provisionally.
separately or which arise from legal rights.
These adjustments are accounted for from the date of acquisition.
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as Within ITV there are two types of intangible assets: those acquired and transactions with owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as those that have been internally generated such as software licences and a result of such transactions.
Transaction costs that the Group incurs development.
in connection with a business combination, such as legal fees, due Other intangible assets acquired directly by the Group are stated at cost diligence fees and other professional and consulting fees, are expensed less accumulated amortisation.
Those separately identified intangible as incurred.
assets acquired as part of a business combination are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation.
The main intangible assets that the Group has been required to value are brands, licences and customer relationships and contracts.
88 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities continued The table below details the Groups valuation method on initial recognition, amortisation method and estimated useful life by class of intangible asset.
Class of intangible asset Valuation method Amortisation method Estimated useful life Brands Applying a royalty rate to the expected future revenues Straight line up to 11 years over the life of the brand Customer contracts Expected future cash flows from those contracts and Straight line up to 6 years for customer and relationships relationships existing at the date of acquisition are estimated.
contracts If applicable, a contributory charge is deducted for the use of other assets needed to exploit the cash flow.
5 to 10 years for customer The net cash flow is then discounted back to present value.
relationships Licences Start-up basis of expected future cash flows existing at the Straight line 11 to 17 years depending on date of acquisition.
term of license If applicable, a contributory charge is deducted for the use of other assets needed to exploit the cash flow.
The net cash flow is then discounted back to present value.
Software licences Initially at cost and subsequently at cost less accumulated Straight line 1 to 5 years and development amortisation Film libraries Initially at cost and subsequently at cost less accumulated Sum of digits 20 years amortisation Internally generated software development costs in relation to itv.
com are expensed as incurred.
In determining the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisition, The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs the directors are required to make estimates regarding the timing and to sell and value in use.
The value in use is based on the discounted amount of future cash flows to be derived from exploiting the assets present value of the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU being acquired.
These cash flows are then discounted using an to which the asset relates.
Growth assumptions assumed as part of the appropriate discount rate.
Such estimates are based on current budgets transformation plan are not included in the estimated future cash flows and forecasts, extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account used for impairment testing.
growth rates, expected changes to selling prices, operating costs and the Estimates are used in deriving these cash flows and the discount rate.
expected useful lives of assets following purchase.
Judgements are also Such estimates reflect current market assessments of the risks specific made regarding whether and for how long licences will be renewed, to the asset and the time value of money.
The estimation process is and this drives our amortisation policy for those assets.
The directors complex due to the inherent risks and uncertainties.
If different estimate the appropriate discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect estimates of the projected future cash flows or a different selection of current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks an appropriate discount rate or long-term growth rate were made, these specific to the businesses being acquired.
changes could materially alter the projected value of the cash flows of the asset, and as a consequence materially different amounts would be Amortisation reported in the financial statements.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the estimated Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect of useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are judged to be assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has indefinite.
Indefinite life assets, such as goodwill, are not amortised been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable but are tested for impairment at each year-end.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the Impairment assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment loss had been recognised.
impairment and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the amount carried in the statement of financial position is less than its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each asset or cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating unit or CGU.
89 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Intangible assets Intangible assets can be analysed as follows: Customer Software Film contracts and licences and libraries Goodwill Brands relationships Licences development and other Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 3,484 200 338 121 46 84 4,273 Additions 13 13 Reclassification to assets held for sale 115 26 8 3 152 Disposals 4 1 2 7 2 16 At 31 December 2009 3,365 173 328 121 52 79 4,118 Additions 2 2 At 31 December 2010 3,365 173 328 121 54 79 4,120 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2009 2,735 86 234 38 9 31 3,133 Charge for the year 17 21 9 8 4 59 Reclassification to assets held for sale 81 9 5 2 97 Disposals 1 5 1 7 At 31 December 2009 2,654 94 249 47 12 32 3,088 Charge for the year 16 20 9 15 3 63 At 31 December 2010 2,654 110 269 56 27 35 3,151 Net book value At 31 December 2010 711 63 59 65 27 44 969 At 31 December 2009 711 79 79 74 40 47 1,030 Management believes that a consistent discount rate can be applied to There has been no movement in the net book value of goodwill in the all CGUs, due to the similarity of the risk factors affecting them and their current year.
The 2009 net movement in goodwill of 38 million resulted geographical spread.
There is currently no reasonably possible change in from the transfer of 34 million to assets held for sale regarding Friends discount rate that would reduce the headroom in any CGU to zero.
Reunited and 4 million from the disposal of Enable Media Limited.
Also included within the book values above is expenditure of 1 million Broadcasting & Online 2009: 6 million on software that is in the course of development.
As a result of the strategic review, the Group reconsidered the Goodwill impairment tests appropriate level to test goodwill impairment during the year and concluded that the Broadcasting, GMTV and Online CGUs previously The following CGUs represent the carrying amounts of goodwill.
assessed separately are a single CGU, Broadcasting & Online.
2010 2009 These businesses jointly rely on the ITV licences, brands and content m m to generate cash inflows.
This classification is consistent with the Broadcasting & Online 328 328 Broadcasting & Online operating segment and is the level at which SDN 76 76 management monitor goodwill.
ITV Studios 307 307 The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition of 711 711 broadcasting businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the acquisition by Granada of United News and Medias broadcast businesses There has been no impairment charge for the year 2009: nil.
in 2000 and the merger of Carlton and Granada in 2004 to form ITV plc.
No impairment charge arose in the Broadcasting & Online CGU during When assessing impairment, the recoverable amount of each CGU is the course of 2010 2009: nil, due to the improvement of the advertising based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of market in 2010 and the cost savings achieved in 2009.
Management estimates, specifically: pre-tax cash flow projections: long-term growth believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the advertising rates: and a pre-tax market discount rate.
market would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
Cash flow projections are based on the Groups current five-year plan.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows projections for Beyond the five-year plan these projections are extrapolated using an this CGU are based include: the television share of the advertising market, estimated long-term growth rate of 1%2.5% 2009: 1%2.5% depending share of commercial impacts, and programme and other costs.
The growth rates used are consistent with the long-term average growth rates for the industry and are appropriate because these The key assumption in assessing the recoverable amount of are long-term businesses.
Broadcasting & Online goodwill is the size of the TV advertising market.
In forming its assumptions about the TV advertising market, the Group A pre-tax market discount rate of 11.8% 2009: 12.9% has been used in has used a combination of long-term trends, industry forecasts and discounting the projected cash flows for each CGU.
The discount rate has in-house estimates, which place greater emphasis on recent experience.
been revised to reflect the latest market assumptions for the Risk FreeThese are broadly in the range of 3% to 3% for 2011 and 0% to 4% for rate, the Equity Risk Premium and the net cost of debt.
2012, with the Groups assumptions at the cautious end of these ranges.
It is also assumed that ITV renews its broadcasting licences in 2014.
90 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities continued SDN ITV Studios The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition of production The goodwill in this CGU arose on the acquisition of SDN the licence businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the acquisition by operator for DTT Multiplex A in 2005 and represented the wider Granada of United News and Medias production businesses in 2000 and strategic benefits of the acquisition to ITV plc.
The strategic benefits the merger of Carlton and Granada in 2004 to form ITV plc.
were principally the enhanced ability to promote Freeview as a platform, business relationships with the channels which are on Multiplex A and No impairment charge arose in the ITV Studios CGU during the course of additional capacity available from 2010.
No impairment charge arose in the SDN CGU during the course of 2010 The key assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based 2009: nil.
include revenue including the share of total network programme budget obtained and margin growth.
These assumptions have been The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are based are determined by using a combination of extrapolation of historical trends income to be earned from medium-term contracts and the market price within the business, industry estimates and in-house estimates of of available multiplex video streams in the period up to and beyond growth rates in all markets.
These assumptions have been determined by using Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the a combination of current contract terms, recent market transactions revenue and margin assumptions would reduce the headroom in this and in-house estimates of video stream availability and pricing.
assumed that the Multiplex A licence is renewed to 2022.
Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the income and availability assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
91 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 3.4 Assets held for sale, acquisitions and disposals The following section outlines what the Group is either holding for sale, has acquired, or has disposed of in the year.
Accounting policies The Group disposed of its 50% interest in Screenvision US Technicolor Cinema Advertising LLC on 14 October 2010 for a total consideration Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if: of $80 million 50 million.
Consideration of $75 million 47 million their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale, rather has been received resulting in a gain on disposal of 4 million.
$5 million than continuing use: they are available for immediate sale: and, the sale 3 million is contingent on contractual commitments.
A disposal group consists of assets that are to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise, in a single transaction together with The Group disposed of its long leasehold interest in properties at the directly associated liabilities.
The group includes goodwill acquired in Birmingham and Bristol on the 12 August 2010 and 23 August 2010 a business combination if the disposal group is a cash-generating unit to respectively for a total consideration of 7 million resulting in a net which goodwill has been allocated.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets or components Assets held for sale of a disposal group are re-measured in accordance with the Groups The 3 million included in assets held for sale relates to property, plant accounting policies.
Thereafter generally the assets or disposal groups are and equipment 2009: 78 million related to the Groups investments in measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs Screenvision US and Friends Reunited as well as certain properties.
Any impairment on a disposal group is first allocated to goodwill The movement in assets held for sale since 1 January 2010 is and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro-rata basis, except to summarised in the table below: programming rights and other inventory, financial assets and deferred tax assets, which continue to be measured in accordance with the 2010 m Groups accounting policies.
Impairment on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on re-measurement are At 1 January 2010 78 recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess Transfer from property, plant and equipment 4 of any cumulative impairment.
Net repayment of loans from Screenvision US 4 No amortisation or depreciation is charged on non-current assets Disposal of Screenvision US 39 including those in disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Assets Disposal of Friends Reunited 28 classified as held for sale are disclosed separately on the face of the Disposal of properties held for sale 8 statement of financial position and classified as current assets or At 31 December 2010 3 liabilities, with disposal groups being separated between assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale.
The movements in liabilities held for sale since 1 January 2010 is Disposal groups are classified as discontinued operations where they summarised in the table below: represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations.
2010 m The income statement for the comparative period is re-presented to show the discontinued operations separate from the continuing At 1 January 2010 3 operations.
Disposal of Friends Reunited 3 At 31 December 2010 Disposals All disposals were included within assets held for sale in 2009.
During the year the Group began actively marketing property that is surplus to requirements and disposal is anticipated to be completed The Group disposed of its 100% interest in Friends Reunited Holdings within one year.
Property was transferred from property, plant and Limited on 25 March 2010 to Brightsolid Online Innovation Limited equipment at a net book value of 4 million.
The property in Bedford, a wholly-owned subsidiary of D. C. Thompson Limited for a cash classified as an asset held for sale in prior periods, continues to be consideration of 27 million.
The sale resulted in no material gain or loss classified as such, since it continues to be actively marketed.
92 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities continued 3.5 Provisions A provision is recognised by the Group where an obligation exists, relating to events in the past, and it is probable that cash will be paid to settle it.
A provision is made where the Group is not certain how much cash will be required to settle a liability, so an estimate is made.
The main estimates relate to the cost of holding properties that are no longer in use by the Group and contracts the Group has entered into that are now unprofitable.
Accounting policies The table includes provisions of 34 million that are classified as current liabilities 2009: 47 million.
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation arising from Contract provisions are for onerous sports rights commitments and are past events, it is probable cash will be paid to settle it and the amount expected to be utilised over the remaining contract period.
Provisions are determined by discounting Restructuring provisions are in respect of previously announced the expected future cash flows by a rate that reflects current market efficiency programmes and are expected to be utilised within one year.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the The amount utilised in 2010 was the remaining provision from 2009. liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a financing cost in the income statement.
These provisions are estimates for which the Property provisions principally relate to onerous lease contracts due to empty space created by the significant reduction in headcount in 2009. amount and timing of actual cash flows are dependent on future events.
Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated life of the leases or Provisions earlier if exited.
The movements in provisions during the year are as follows: Other provisions of 16 million mainly relate to potential liabilities that may arise as a result of Boxclever having been placed into administration, Contract Restructuring Property Other provisions provisions provisions provisions Total most of which relate to pension arrangements.
m m m m m At 1 January 2010 35 8 17 16 76 Addition release 1 5 6 2 Unwind of discount 1 1 2 Utilised 15 8 4 27 At 31 December 2010 20 5 8 16 49 93 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 3.6 Pensions In this section we explain the accounting policies governing the Groups treatment of the pension schemes that ITV have in place, followed by analysis of the deficit on the defined benefit pension scheme and how this has been calculated.
The Group has offered its employees the opportunity to participate in a number of defined benefit schemes, however, these schemes are now closed to new members.
The Group continues to offer employees the defined contribution pension scheme and where taken up makes payments into this scheme on their behalf.
The Group is required to disclose in the statement of financial position the net of the defined benefit pension assets and liabilities representing the Groups present obligation to its past and current employees.
In the event of a net liability the directors are obliged to determine how this deficit will be addressed.
The assets are calculated at fair value and the obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme.
The Group discloses the assets and obligations of the scheme and the assumptions used to calculate these.
The detailed disclosures are included in the section below.
In addition we have placed text boxes to explain some of the technical terms used in the disclosure.
Accounting policies The Groups pension schemes Defined contribution schemes Under the defined contribution schemes, the Group pays Obligations under the Groups defined contribution schemes are fixed contributions into a separate fund on behalf of the recognised as an operating cost in the income statement as incurred.
employee and has no further obligations to employees.
The risks and rewards associated with this type of scheme Defined benefit schemes are assumed by the members rather than the employer.
The Groups obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of In a defined benefit scheme the employer underwrites future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in investment, mortality and inflation risks.
In the event of the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its poor returns the employer needs to address this through present value and the fair value of scheme assets is then deducted.
a combination of increased levels of contribution or by The discount rate used is the yield at the valuation date on high quality making adjustments to the scheme.
Schemes can be corporate bonds.
funded where regular cash contributions are made by the The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the employer into a fund which is invested, or unfunded where appropriateness of the assumptions which include life expectancy of no regular money or assets are put aside to cover future payments.
The main ITV schemes are funded.
members, expected salary and pension increases, inflation and the return on scheme assets.
It is important to note that comparatively Under the defined benefit scheme, the Group has an small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect obligation to provide the member with future benefits in on the income statement and statement of financial position.
the form of cash payments.
The Group makes contributions The liabilities of the defined benefit scheme are measured by to the ITV Pension Scheme, a separate trustee-administered fund that is not consolidated in these financial statements, discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out but is reflected on the defined benefit pension deficit line by the scheme using the projected unit method.
This method is an on the statement of financial position.
The pension trustees accrued benefits valuation method in which the scheme liabilities make manage and invest the assets of the scheme.
The trustees allowance for projected earnings.
These calculations are performed by a of the fund are required to act in the best interest of the qualified actuary.
The appointment of trustees to the Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which fund is determined by the schemes documentation.
they arise through the statement of comprehensive income.
In an unfunded scheme the Group is responsible for holding Unfunded schemes in relation to previous directors are accounted for assets to meet pension obligations.
Assets are held outside of the pension scheme in the form The following section outlines the key elements of the of gilts included within cash and cash equivalents.
Groups defined contribution and defined benefit schemes during the year and as at the 31 December 2010.
94 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities continued Defined contribution schemes Total contributions recognised as an expense in relation to defined In addition from 2012, if the Groups reported EBITA before contribution schemes during 2010 were 6 million 2009: 4 million.
exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2011 exceed This is the default scheme for all new employees.
300 million, the Group will increase this contribution by an amount representing 10% of EBITA before exceptional items over this Defined benefit schemes threshold level.
The Groups main scheme was formed from a merger of a number As a result of the SDN pension partnership a further 8 million of of schemes on 31 January 2006.
The level of retirement benefit is annual deficit contributions will commence from 2011.
Under the principally based on pensionable salary at retirement.
partnership arrangements, the Group has committed to making a payment to the Scheme of up to 150 million in 2022, if and to the The Groups main scheme consists of three sections, A, B and C. The first extent that the Scheme remains in deficit at that time.
triennial valuation of section A was completed as at 1 January 2008 by an independent actuary for the Trustees of the ITV Pension Scheme The Group estimates the average duration of UK scheme liabilities and the next triennial valuation of this section is being undertaken as to be 15 years 2009: 14 years.
The first triennial valuation of sections B and C were The remaining sections provide further detail of the value of scheme completed as at 1 January 2007 and the next triennial valuation of these assets and liabilities, how these are accounted for and the impact on the sections as at 1 January 2010 is in progress.
The Group will monitor income statement.
Total defined benefit scheme obligations The defined benefit pension deficit The defined benefit pension deficit at 31 December 2010 was The defined benefit obligation the pension scheme liabilities 313 million 2009: 436 million.
may change due to the following: The assets and liabilities of the scheme are recognised in the Current service cost credit changes in the present value consolidated statement of financial position and shown within nonof the obligation attributable to the members current current liabilities.
The total recognised in the current and previous periods service.
This is charged to operating costs in the years are: income statement.
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Curtailment losses gains these occur when the Company is demonstrably committed to amend a scheme so that Total defined benefit the benefits for future services are reduced or eliminated.
scheme obligations 2,746 2,687 2,339 2,603 2,657 A change in future benefits is treated as a curtailment and Total defined benefit recognised in operating costs in the income statement 2,433 2,251 2,161 2,491 2,372 scheme assets rather than an actuarial gain or loss recognised in equity, Net amount recognised within if the effect of the re-measurement is significant.
the consolidated statement of Past service costs credits these occur when there is a financial position 313 436 178 112 285 change in the present value of the obligation, in respect of a members prior period of service.
These can arise due to Addressing the deficit changes in the benefit entitlement of members and are The statutory funding objective is that the scheme has sufficient and recognised through operating costs.
appropriate assets to pay its benefits as they fall due.
This is a long-term Settlement gains these occur when the Company target.
Future contributions will always be set at least at the level enters into a transaction to eliminate all further legal or required to satisfy the statutory funding objective.
The general principles constructive obligations for some or all of the benefits adopted by the trustees are that the assumptions used, taken as a provided by the plan.
Settlement gains can arise from whole, will be sufficiently prudent for pensions and benefits already in enhanced transfer values exercises, fully insuring benefits payment to continue to be paid, and to reflect the commitments which or on business disposals.
will arise from members accrued pension rights.
Increase due to interest cost this is the unwinding of the The levels of ongoing contributions to the defined benefit schemes are discount on the present value of the obligation.
Broadly, based on the current service costs as assessed by the scheme trustees it is determined by multiplying the discount rate at the and the expected future cash flows of the scheme.
Normal employer beginning of the period by the present value of the contributions into the schemes in 2011 for current service are expected obligation during the period.
This is recognised through to be in the region of 10 million 2010: 9 million assuming current net financing costs in the income statement.
contribution rates continue as agreed with the scheme trustees.
From July 2010, these figures include member contributions paid by the Actuarial losses gains arise from differences between employer under a salary sacrifice arrangement.
In addition, the following the actual and expected outcome in the valuation of the deficit funding payments are expected for forthcoming years, these obligation.
These can be experience adjustments, which funding arrangements are fixed to 2014, regardless of the Section A are differences between the assumptions made and what valuation due to be completed in 2011.
Sections B and C funding actually occurred, or they can result from changes in arrangements may vary: assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised through retained losses within equity.
In 2011 the Group will make deficit funding contributions of 35 million.
Cash contributions benefits paid cash contributions by scheme participants will increase the obligations by the From 2012 the Groups annual contribution will be increased scheme whereas any benefits paid out by the scheme will by 5 million, unless during the previous year the Group has lower the obligations of the scheme.
implemented initiatives which reduce the Schemes deficit by at least 10 million, compared with the level absent such initiatives.
95 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation In July 2010, the UK Government announced changes to the inflation for these schemes is analysed below: index used for statutory increases both for pensions in payment and pensions in deferment to apply to private sector pension schemes.
2010 2009 This has resulted in an actuarial gain of 45 million during the period in m m respect of the ITV pension scheme.
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2,687 2,339 Current service cost 5 7 In estimating the life expectancy of pension scheme members, the Group has used PA92 year of birth tables with medium cohort Curtailment loss gain redundancies 1 2 improvements, with a 1% per annum underpin and a one year age rating Operating exceptional curtailment gain i. e. tables are adjusted so that a member is assumed to be one year salary cap 72 older than actual age.
Using these tables the assumed life expectations Past service cost augmentations 1 on retirement are: Operating exceptional past service credit one-off change to pension payment 2010 2010 2009 2009 2 38 Operating exceptional past service credit Retiring today at age 60 65 60 65 introduction of pensions payment Males 26.6 21.7 26.5 21.6 change option 25 Females 29.9 24.9 29.8 24.8 Settlement enhanced transfer values 21 Retiring in 20 years Interest cost 149 143 at age 60 65 60 65 Net actuarial loss 80 439 Males 28.6 23.5 28.5 23.4 Contributions by scheme participants 2 4 Females 32.0 26.8 31.9 26.7 Benefits paid 130 134 The tables above reflect published mortality investigation data in Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2,746 2,687 conjunction with the results of investigations into the mortality experience of scheme members.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is analysed between wholly unfunded and funded defined benefit schemes The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure in the table below: the defined benefit obligation are set out below: 2010 2009 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities m m Increase decrease Decrease increase Defined benefit obligation in respect Discount rate by 0.5% by 8% 220 million of funded schemes 2,709 2,653 Increase decrease Increase decrease Defined benefit obligation in respect Rate of inflation by 0.5% by 5% 137 million of wholly unfunded schemes 37 34 Increase Total defined benefit obligation 2,746 2,687 Life expectations Increase by 1 year by 2% 55 million The sensitivities above consider the single change shown with the other Assumptions used to calculate the best estimate of future assumptions assumed to be unchanged.
cash flows to be paid out by the scheme include: future salary In practice, changes in one assumption may be accompanied by levels, future pensionable salary levels, the estimate of offsetting changes in another assumption although this is not always increases in pension payments, the life expectations of the case.
The Groups net pension deficit is the difference between the members, the effect of inflation on all these factors and scheme liabilities and the scheme assets.
Changes in the assumptions ultimately the discount rate used to estimate the present may occur at the same time as changes in the market value of scheme day fair value of these obligations.
These may or may not offset the change in assumptions.
For example, a fall in interest rates will increase the scheme liability, When deciding on these assumptions the Group will take but may also trigger an offsetting increase in the market value of certain independent actuarial advice relating to the appropriateness scheme assets so there is no net effect on the Groups liability.
Total defined benefit scheme assets The principal assumptions used in the scheme valuations at the Pension scheme assets are measured at their fair value and year-end were: can change due to the following: 2010 2009 The expected return on scheme assets is determined Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.40% 5.70% based on the market expectations at the beginning Inflation assumption 3.40% 3.40% of the year and calculated as the expected percentage Rate of pensionable salary increases 0.90% 0.90% return multiplied by the fair value of the scheme assets.
This expected return on scheme assets is recognised Rate of increase in pension payment through net financing costs in the income statement.
LPI 5% pension increases 3.30% 3.30% Rate of increase to deferred pensions CPI 2.90% 3.40% Actuarial gains and losses arise from differences between the actual and expected outcome in the valuation of the IAS 19 requires that the discount rate used be determined by reference assets.
These can be experience adjustments, which are to high quality fixed income investments in the UK that match the differences between the assumptions made and what estimated term of the pension obligations.
The discount rate has been actually occurred, or they can result from changes in based on the yield available on AA rated corporate bonds of a term assumptions.
For example differences in the actual asset similar to the liabilities.
performance versus the expected performance would be an actuarial gain loss.
Actuarial gains and losses are The inflation assumption has been set by looking at the difference recognised through retained losses within equity.
between the yields on fixed and index-linked Government bonds.
The inflation assumption is used to calculate the remaining assumptions Employers contributions and cash contributions by except where caps have been implemented as part of the Groups scheme participants are paid into the scheme to be actions during 2009. managed and invested.
96 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities continued The movement in the fair value of the defined benefit scheme assets is Amounts recognised through the income statement analysed below: Amounts recognised through the income statement in the various 2010 2009 captions are as follows: m m 2010 2009 Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2,251 2,161 m m Expected return on assets 136 128 Amount charged to operating costs: Net actuarial gain 147 48 Current service cost 5 7 Employer contributions 47 44 Curtailment loss gain redundancies 1 2 Contributions by scheme participants 2 4 Past service cost augmentations 1 Settlement enhanced transfer values 20 6 6 Benefits and expenses paid 130 134 Amount credited to operating income exceptional items: Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2,433 2,251 Curtailment gain salary cap 72 At 31 December 2010 the scheme assets were invested in a diversified Past service credit one-off change portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt securities.
The fair to pensions payment 2 38 value of the scheme assets are shown below by major category: Past service credit introduction of Market value Market value pensions payment change option 25 2010 2009 m m Settlement gain enhanced transfer values 1 Market value of assets equity-type assets 901 869 28 110 Market value of assets bonds 1,242 1,263 Amount charged credited to net Market value of assets other 290 119 financing costs: Expected return on pension scheme assets 136 128 Total scheme assets 2,433 2,251 Interest cost 149 143 Exposure through the different asset classes is obtained through a 13 15 combination of executing swaps and investing in physical assets.
Total credited in the consolidated The trustees have a substantial holding of equity-type investments, income statement 9 89 mainly shares in listed and unlisted companies.
The investment return related to these is variable, and they are generally considered riskier Operating exceptional gains of 28 million, included above, were investments.
However, it is generally accepted that the yield on these recognised in 2010 in relation to changes made to the ITV Pension investments will contain a premium to compensate investors for this Scheme.
There is significant uncertainty about the likely size of this risk premium.
In respect of overseas equity investments there is also a a past service credit of 25 million in relation to the introduction of a risk of unfavourable currency movements which the Group manage by member option to change pension payments at retirement hedging broadly 60% of the overseas investments against currency a past service credit of 2 million in relation to the one off change to movements.
pension payments, and The trustees also hold corporate bonds and other fixed interest securities.
a settlement gain of 1 million in relation to the enhanced transfer The risk of default on these is assessed by various rating agencies.
Some of these bond investments are issued by the UK Government.
The risk of default on these is very small compared to the risk of default Amounts recognised through the consolidated statement of on corporate bond investments, although some risk may remain.
comprehensive income cost The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target The amounts recognised through the consolidated statement of asset allocation for 2011 to develop the expected long-term rate of comprehensive income cost are: return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
The benchmark for 2011 is to hold broadly 47% equities and 53% bonds.
The majority of the equities 2010 2009 m m held by the scheme are in international blue chip entities.
The aim is to hold a globally diversified portfolio of equities, with a target of broadly Actuarial gains and losses : 22% of equities being held in UK and 78% of equities held overseas.
Arising on scheme assets 147 48 Within the bond portfolio the aim is to hold 58% of the portfolio in Arising on scheme liabilities 80 439 government bonds gilts and 42% of the portfolio in corporate bonds 67 391 and other fixed interest securities.
The expected rates of return on scheme assets by major category and The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised through target allocations are set out below: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 1 January 2004 is an actuarial loss of 252 million 2008: 319 million loss.
Expected Expected long-term rate Planned asset long-term rate Planned asset Included within actuarial gains and losses are experience adjustments of return allocation of return allocation 2011 2011 2010 2010 as follows: % p. a.
% of assets 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Equity and property 7.8 47 8.1 47 m m m m m Bonds 3.74.7 53 4.05.0 53 Experience adjustments on The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates scheme assets 147 48 438 15 32 can be derived exactly from their market value.
The actual return on the Experience schemes return seeking assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 adjustments on was an increase of 283 million 2009: increase of 176 million.
scheme liabilities 3 18 12 97 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs Responsibility Governance Financial statements The directors have to determine the appropriate capital structure of ITV specifically how much is raised from shareholders equity and how much is borrowed from financial institutions debt in order to finance the Groups activities both now and in the future.
The Boards focus during the year was on reducing net debt and improving the Groups credit rating.
As these improvements continue the Board will review its policies on capital structure to support the Transformation Plan.
The Board is mindful that equity capital cannot be easily flexed and in particular raising new equity would only be likely in the context of an acquisition.
Debt can be issued and repurchased more easily but there are high transaction costs in frequent adjustment and debt holders are under no obligation to accept any offer to repurchase.
This section outlines how the Group manages its capital.
The Group considers its capital structure and dividend policy at least twice a year ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan.
The Group focuses on leverage, credit ratings and interest cost, particularly when considering investment.
On the following pages there are sections on the Groups net debt, borrowings and held to maturity investments, derivative financial instruments, net financing costs, financial risk factors, fair value hierarchies, equity and share-based compensation.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
4.1 Net debt Net debt is the Groups key measure used to evaluate total outstanding debt net of the current cash resources.
In defining total outstanding debt the directors consider it appropriate to include the following: the currency impact of swaps held against those debt instruments: equity components of debt instruments: and the accounting impact on specific bonds due to the increase in coupon rates caused by the downgrade of ITVs investment status in August 2008.
Analysis of net debt The table below analyses the Groups components of net debt and their movements in the year: Currency and 1 January Net cash flow non-cash 31 December 2010 and acquisitions movements 2010 m m m m Cash 479 282 761 Cash equivalents 103 6 2 99 Cash and cash equivalents 582 276 2 860 Cash held within the disposal group 4 4 Held to maturity investments 149 1 148 Loans and loan notes due within one year 1 1 47 47 Finance leases due within one year 8 8 8 8 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,366 146 50 1,170 Finance leases due after one year 65 4 8 53 1,440 159 3 1,278 Currency component of swaps held against Euro denominated bonds 108 10 98 Convertible bond equity component 35 4 31 Amortised cost adjustment 20 5 15 Net debt 612 431 7 188 98 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs continued Currency and 1 January Net cash flow non-cash 31 December 2009 and acquisitions movements 2009 m m m m Cash 503 20 4 479 Cash equivalents 113 11 1 103 Cash and cash equivalents 616 31 3 582 Cash held within the disposal group 4 4 Held to maturity investments 150 1 149 Loans and loan notes due within one year 252 249 2 1 Finance leases due within one year 7 7 8 8 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,192 221 47 1,366 Finance leases due after one year 72 7 65 1,523 35 48 1,440 Currency component of swaps held against Euro denominated bonds 147 39 108 Convertible bond equity component 36 1 35 Amortised cost adjustment 30 10 20 Net debt 730 118 612 Cash and cash equivalents impact the accounting treatment.
The lender has the option to increase this debt by 150 million.
Included within cash equivalents is 53 million 2009: 62 million, the use of which is restricted to meeting finance lease commitments under In March 2009 ITV repaid its 250 million Eurobond.
programme sale and leaseback commitments, and gilts of 36 million 2009: 34 million over which the unfunded pension promises have Currency components of swaps held against euro denominated bonds a charge.
As at 31 December 2010 the currency element of the cross currency interest rate swaps is a 98 million asset 2009: 108 million asset and Held to maturity investments this offsets the exchange rate movement of the 2011 and 2014 Euro In February 2009 ITV raised a net 50 million through a 200 million denominated bonds.
The interest element of the swap is a 10 million covenant free loan with a maturity of March 2019, secured against the asset 2009: 12 million asset resulting in an overall net asset total at purchase of 4.5% March 2019 gilts with a nominal value of 138 million 31 December 2010 of 108 million 2009: 120 million net asset total for a cost of 150 million.
As at December 2010 this gilt has a carrying value of 148 million.
Convertible bond In November 2009 ITV issued a 135 million convertible Eurobond with Loan and loan notes due within one year a maturity date of November 2016 and a coupon of 4%.
As the bond During the course of the year ITV repurchased 63 million 54 million contains an option for the issuer to convert a portion of the debt into of the October 2011 bonds with 54 million 47 million remaining due ITVs equity, the components are treated as separate instruments.
In 2009 ITV repaid 195 million 171 million of this The accounting policy for this compound instrument is detailed in October 2011 bond and exchanged at par 188 million for the issuance note 4.2. at par of new bonds with a maturity of June 2014 and a coupon of 10%.
The debt portion is 100 million 2009: 96 million and is included within Loans and loan notes due after one year.
The effective interest rate on Loan and loan notes due after one year the carrying value of the debt component is 9.4%.
The equity In 2010 ITV conducted further repurchases of 42 million of the component of 31 million 2009: 35 million is shown separately.
425 million October 2015 bonds reducing the outstanding balance to 383 million.
These bonds carry a coupon of 5.375%.
Amortised cost adjustment In December 2010 ITV repaid the remaining 50 million of the The purpose of the amortised cost adjustment is to exclude the impact 125 million May 2013 loan 2009: 75 million repaid.
of the coupon step-up on net debt.
ITVs Standard & Poors credit rating was lowered to BB in August 2008, resulting in a coupon step-up in the Included within loan notes due after one year is the 200 million 2011 and 2017 bonds.
The recalculation of the amortised cost carrying covenant free loan raised in February 2009 with a maturity of March values as required by IAS 39 resulted in a non-cash increase in net debt of 2019.
This loan is secured against the 4.5% March 2019 gilts with a 30 million as at 31 December 2008.
The accounting treatment unwinds nominal value of 138 million for a cost of 150 million described this increase in future years as a reduction in interest expense.
Interest on the loan is fixed at 6.75% for the first three years and a adjustment has no impact on the cash interest paid the interest charged variable rate thereafter, depending in part on the performance of an to unwind the adjustment is excluded from net financing costs as interest rate algorithm.
The interest mechanism on these instruments described in the Financial and performance review.
was adjusted during the year.
The change was not significant and did not 99 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 4.2 Borrowings and held to maturity investments The Group borrows money from financial institutions in the form of bonds and other financial instruments.
These generally have fixed interest rates and are for a fixed term.
Some of these financial instruments are complex in that they require the Group to hold investments, of a lesser value, in assets that have fixed interest rates and a fixed maturity date.
The interest payable and receivable on these instruments is shown in the Net financing costs note in Section 4.4 Accounting policies Borrowings and held to maturity investments The table below analyses the Groups borrowings by when they fall due Borrowings for payment: Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value including directly 2010 attributable transaction costs, with subsequent measurement at Loans and Finance amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Under the loan notes leases Total amortised cost method the difference between the amount initially m m m recognised and the redemption value is recorded in the income Current statement over the period of the borrowing on an effective In one year or less, or on demand 47 8 55 interest basis.
Non-current Where the Group has identified that the treatment of a borrowing In more than one year but not more amortised cost and its related derivative fair value result in a than two years 10 10 mismatch, the Group has adopted the fair value option within IAS 39 In more than two years but not more revised to eliminate this accounting mismatch.
This is considered more than five years 607 34 641 appropriate than the amortised cost method as the movements in these In more than five years 563 9 572 financial instruments largely offset each other and, as a result, they are managed on an aggregated basis.
The effect of this is that the Group 1,170 53 1,223 recognises any such borrowings at fair value in all periods subsequent Total 1,217 61 1,278 to initial recognition, with resultant gains or losses recorded in the income statement.
2009 Compound financial instruments Loans and Finance loan notes leases Total Compound financial instruments are instruments that are classified m m m as partly debt and partly equity due to the terms of the instrument.
Current The Group has one compound financial instrument which is a convertible In one year or less, or on demand 1 8 9 note that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder Non-current at maturity.
In more than one year but not more The liability component of a compound financial instrument is than two years 106 9 115 recognised initially at the fair value of a similar liability that does not In more than two years but not more have an equity conversion option.
The equity component is recognised than five years 316 39 355 initially at the difference between the fair value of the compound In more than five years 944 17 961 financial instrument as a whole and the fair value of the liability 1,366 65 1,431 component.
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial Total 1,367 73 1,440 carrying amounts.
Current loans and loan notes due within one year Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument is measured at amortised cost using the effective Loans repayable in one year or less as at 31 December 2010 comprise interest method.
The equity component of a compound financial an unsecured 54 million Eurobond 47 million which has a coupon instrument is not re-measured subsequent to initial recognition but is of 6.0% and matures in October 2011.
After cross currency swaps there transferred to retained losses over the term of the instrument on an is a net amount receivable in October 2011 of 16 million.
In 2009 this effective interest rate basis.
bond was classified as due in more than one year but not more than two years.
Held to maturity assets Where the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold financial Loans and loan notes repayable between two and five years assets to maturity, they are classified as held to maturity.
Held to Loans repayable between two and five years as at 31 December 2010 maturity financial assets are recognised initially at fair value including includes an unsecured 110 million Eurobond which has a coupon of any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial three-month sterling LIBOR plus 2.7% and matures in March 2013, an recognition, held to maturity financial assets are measured at amortised unsecured 188 million Eurobond 126 million net of cross currency cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
swaps which has a coupon of 10.0% and matures in June 2014 and an unsecured 383 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 5.375% and matures in October 2015.
100 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs continued Loans and loan notes repayable after five years Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, Loans repayable after five years includes an unsecured 135 million discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
convertible Eurobond which has a coupon of 4.0% and matures in November 2016, an unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a The book value of the 2011 Eurobond decreased in the year principally coupon of 7.375% and matures in January 2017 and an unsecured bank as a result of repurchases.
After taking account of cross currency interest loan for 200 million which has a coupon of 6.75% until March 2012 and rate swaps ITV will receive a net 16 million at maturity.
a variable rate thereafter and matures in March 2019.
The book value of the 2015 383 million Eurobond decreased in the year as a result of repurchases.
Fair values versus book value The fair value of the 135 million Convertible bond is based upon the par The tables below provide fair value information for the Groups value, whereas the bonds are accounted for partly as debt and partly as borrowings and held to maturing investments: equity, net of issue costs, as described in note 4.1.
Book value Fair value Finance leases 2010 2009 2010 2009 Assets Maturity m m m m The following table analyses when finance lease liabilities are due Held to maturity for payment: investments Mar 19 148 149 150 143 2010 2009 The fair value of held to maturity investments is based on quoted Minimum Minimum lease lease market bid prices at the year-end.
payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal m m m m m m Book value Fair value In one year or less 11 3 8 12 4 8 2010 2009 2010 2009 Liabilities Maturity m m m m In more than one 54 million Eurobond year but not more previously 118 than five years 50 6 44 58 10 48 million Eurobond Oct 11 47 106 48 109 In more than five 110 million Eurobond Mar 13 110 110 109 105 years 10 1 9 18 1 17 50 million loan May 13 50 58 71 10 61 88 15 73 188 million Eurobond Jun 14 150 156 185 187 Finance leases principally comprise programmes under sale and 383 million Eurobond leaseback arrangements and a contractual arrangement relating to previously the provision of news accounted for as a lease.
The net book value of 425 million tangible assets held under finance leases at 31 December 2010 was Eurobond Oct 15 347 384 373 387 9 million 2009: 8 million.
135 million Convertible bond Nov 16 100 96 172 147 250 million Eurobond Jan 17 263 264 258 240 200 million loan Mar 19 200 200 269 244 Other loans 1 1 1,217 1,367 1,414 1,478 101 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 4.3 Derivative financial instruments A derivative is a financial instrument used to manage risk.
Its value changes over time in response to underlying variables such as exchange rates or interest rates and is for a fixed period.
In accordance with Board approved policies, the Group uses derivatives to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest on its borrowings and foreign exchange rates.
These policies are included within Section 4.5.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised as either assets or liabilities at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value at each reporting date.
Movements in instruments measured at fair value are recorded in the income statement in net financing costs.
Analysis of these derivatives and the various methods used to calculate their respective fair values is detailed in this section.
Accounting policies The Group uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments to Third party valuations are used to fair value the Groups derivatives.
hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate yield curves The Group does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative and currency prices yields, volatilities of underlying instruments and purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of are subsequently re-measured at fair value with the movement recorded the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly in the income statement within net financing costs.
Derivatives with probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on a positive fair value are recorded as assets and negative fair values the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined by income statement.
using the difference between the contract exchange rate and the For financial assets and liabilities classified at fair value through profit quoted forward exchange rate at the reporting date.
The fair value of or loss the fair value change and interest income expense are not interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would separated.
receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
Derivative financial instruments The following table shows the fair value of derivative financial instruments analysed by type of contract.
2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 69 3 3 3 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss 2 1 69 3 5 4 Non-current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 89 39 151 30 158 42 156 34 ITV also has a 162.5 million swap matched against part of the 2015 Interest rate swap assets as at 31 December 2010 include 108 million of 383 million bond.
Under this swap ITV receives 5.375% to match the cross-currency and interest rate swaps relating to the 54 million 2011 bond coupon and pays six-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.3%.
Eurobond and the 188 million 2014 Eurobond see note 4.2.
The remaining 50 million of assets relate to a number of floating rate ITV has other swaps totalling 162.5 million matched against part of swaps.
ITV has a 125 million swap matched against half of the 2017 the 2015 383 million bond.
Under these swaps ITV receives 5.375% 250 million bond.
Under this swap ITV receives 6.125% to match the to match the bond coupon and pays a weighted average of threeoriginal bond coupon and pays three-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.51% month sterling LIBOR plus 1.45%.
with the three month sterling LIBOR capped at 5.25% for rates between 5.25% and 8.0%.
102 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs continued Interest rate swap liabilities of 42 million as at 31 December 2010 relate ITV has a 125 million swap with a maturity of January 2017 under to various fixed and floating rate swaps.
ITV has a 162.5 million swap which it receives three-month sterling LIBOR and pays 4.31%.
The bank with a maturity of October 2015 under which it receives three-month has the right to cancel the swap.
The bank has the right to cancel the swap.
ITV has a 125 million swap with a maturity of January 2017 under ITV has a 162.5 million swap with a maturity of October 2015 under which it receives 7.375% to match the bond coupon and pays the which it receives six-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.3%, and pays the higher higher of six-month sterling LIBOR plus 4.52% or six-month US$ LIBOR of six-month sterling LIBOR minus 0.2% or six-month US$ LIBOR minus plus 3.72%, set in arrears with a cap on payment of 10%.
1.0%, set in arrears or in advance.
All forward foreign exchange contracts hedge underlying currency ITV has a 120.5 million swap with a maturity of October 2015 under exposures.
which it receives 5.375% to match the bond coupon and pays the higher of six-month sterling LIBOR plus 2.905% or six-month US$ LIBOR plus 2.105%, set in arrears with a cap on payment of 8%.
4.4 Net financing costs This section details the interest income generated on the Groups financial assets and the interest expense incurred on its borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities.
In reporting its adjusted profits, the Group adjusts financing costs for mark-to-market movements on swaps and foreign exchange, imputed pension interest and other financing costs when assessing the net financing costs.
The rationale for adjustments made to financing costs is provided in the Financial and performance review.
Accounting policies Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest income on funds invested, Net financing costs can be analysed as follows: gains losses on the disposal of financial instruments, changes in the 2010 2009 fair value of financial instruments, interest expense on borrowings and m m finance leases, unwinding of the discount on provisions, foreign exchange Financing income: gains losses and implied interest on pension assets and liabilities.
Interest Interest income 26 23 income and expense is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using the Expected return on defined benefit pension effective interest method.
scheme assets 136 128 Gain on bond exchange 14 Change in fair value of instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss 11 Foreign exchange gain 12 36 185 201 Financing costs: Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 93 93 Interest on defined benefit pension scheme obligations 149 143 Losses on early settlement 10 8 Change in fair value of instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss 37 Other interest expense 8 11 260 292 Net financing costs 75 91 The foreign exchange gain relates principally to Euro denominated bonds that are economically hedged by cross currency interest rate swaps.
103 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 4.5 Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including currency risk, price risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to minimise certain risk exposures.
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board for managing each of these risks including levels of authority on the type and use of financial instruments.
Transactions are only undertaken if they relate to underlying exposures.
The treasury function reports regularly to the Audit Committee and treasury operations are subject to periodic reviews.
Market risk Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or a Currency risk counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual The Group operates internationally and is therefore exposed to currency obligations.
It arises principally from the Groups receivables from risk arising from movements in foreign exchange rates, primarily with customers, cash and held to maturity investments.
There is also credit respect to the US dollar and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from: risk relating to the Groups own credit rating as this impacts the differences in the dates commercial transactions are entered into and availability and cost of future finance.
the date they are settled: recognised assets and liabilities: and, net investments in foreign operations.
a Trade and other receivables The Groups foreign exchange policy is to hedge material foreign The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual currency denominated costs at the time of commitment and to hedge characteristics of each customer.
The majority of trade receivables relate a proportion of foreign currency denominated revenues on a rolling to airtime sales contracts with advertising agencies and advertisers.
12-month basis unless a natural hedge exists.
Credit insurance has been taken out against these companies to minimise the impact on the Group in the event of a possible default.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign b Cash and held to maturity investments currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short-term The Group operates strict investment guidelines with respect to surplus imbalances.
cash and the emphasis is on preservation of capital.
Counterparty limits The Euro denominated interest and principal payments under the for cash deposits are largely based upon long-term ratings published by 54 million and 188 million bonds have been fully hedged by the major credit rating agencies and perceived state support.
Deposits cross-currency interest rate swaps.
longer than six months require the approval of the General Purpose Committee.
The Groups investments in subsidiaries are not hedged as those currency positions are considered to be long term in nature.
c Borrowings At 31 December 2010, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% ITVs credit ratings with Standard & Poors and Moodys Investor against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit Service are B Ba3 respectively and are sub-investment grade with for the year would have been 2 million 2009: 2 million higher lower.
The combination of ITVs lower credit rating and the Equity would have been 13 million 2009: 13 million higher lower.
deterioration in credit conditions adversely impacts the availability and At 31 December 2010, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% costs of future finance.
against the Euro with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for Liquidity risk the year would have been 3 million 2009: 3 million higher lower.
Equity would have been 2 million 2009: 2 million higher lower.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups financing policy is to b Price risk fund itself for the long term by using debt instruments with a range of The Group is not exposed to any material price risk.
It is substantially funded from the UK and European capital markets and it has a bilateral bank facility.
c Interest rate risk Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group is impacted by significant comprising undrawn bank facilities and cash and cash equivalents on changes in interest rates.
Borrowings issued at or swapped to floating the basis of expected cash flows.
This monitoring includes financial ratios rates expose the Group to interest rate risk.
to assess possible future credit ratings and headroom and takes into account the accessibility of cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups interest rate policy is to have between 40% and 60% of its borrowings held at fixed rates over the medium term in order to provide At 31 December 2010 the Group has available 125 million 2009: a balance between certainty of cost and benefit from lower floating 75 million of undrawn committed facilities.
The Group uses interest rate swaps and options in order to achieve is provided by one bank and is secured on advertising receivables.
the desired mix between fixed and floating rates.
The facility has no financial covenants and matures in September 2015.
The facility was renewed during the year resulting in the increased size All of the Groups interest rate swaps are classified as fair value through and longer maturity.
profit or loss so any movement in the fair value goes through the income statement rather than equity.
At 31 December 2010, if interest rates had increased decreased by 0.1%, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2 million 2009: 1 million lower higher.
104 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs continued The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining until the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the statement of financial position: Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2010 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 1,812 138 90 899 685 Held to maturity investments 231 11 11 33 176 Trade and other payables 698 672 22 4 Other payables non current 3 3 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 142 74 9 50 9 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss Outflows 13 13 Inflows 14 14 2,139 724 95 820 500 Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2009 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 2,167 108 215 639 1,205 Held to maturity investments 288 15 15 45 213 Trade and other payables 677 646 23 8 Other payables non current 12 10 2 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 165 13 79 64 9 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss Outflows 77 61 16 Inflows 77 61 16 2,403 726 154 540 983 Held to maturity investments are included within the table above because the 138 million March 2019 gilts are used as security against the 200 million 2019 loan, and the net repayment in 2019 is 62 million.
105 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 4.6 Fair value hierarchy The financial instruments included on the ITV statement of financial position are measured at either fair value or amortised cost.
The measurement of this fair value can in some cases be subjective, and can depend on the inputs used in the calculations.
ITV generally uses external valuations using market inputs or market values e. g. external share prices and does not calculate its own fair values.
The different valuation methods are called hierarchies and are described below.
The table below sets out the financial instruments included on the ITV statement of financial position at fair value.
Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2010 2010 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Available for sale financial instruments STV shares 1 1 Available for sale gilts 36 36 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 158 158 195 37 158 Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2010 2010 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 42 42 42 42 Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2009 2009 2009 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Available for sale financial instruments STV shares 1 1 Available for sale gilts 34 34 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 154 154 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 2 191 35 156 Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2009 2009 2009 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 33 33 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1 1 34 34 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Interest rate swaps and options are accounted for at their fair value based upon termination prices.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for at the difference between the contract exchange rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at the reporting date.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
106 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs continued 4.7 Equity This section explains material movements recorded in shareholders equity that are not explained elsewhere in the financial statements.
The movements in equity and the balance at 31 December 2010 are presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group utilises share award schemes as part of its employee remuneration packages.
The various ITV Share-based compensation schemes are explained in this section as they are accounted for through retained losses.
2 Merger and other reserves Available for sale reserve Merger and other reserves at 31 December 2010 include merger reserves arising on the Granada Carlton and previous mergers of 119 million Available for sale assets are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or 2009: 119 million, capital reserves of 112 million 2009: 112 million, loss recognised directly in the available for sale reserve in equity, unless capital redemption reserves of 36 million 2009: 36 million, the loss is a permanent impairment, when it is then recorded in the revaluation reserves of 6 million 2009: 6 million and 31 million income statement.
2009: 35 million in respect of the equity element of the 2016 convertible bond.
Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval 4.7.
3 Translation reserve by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of the accounts of, and investments in, Share-based compensation foreign operations.
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes.
The fair value of the equity instrument granted is measured at grant 4.7.
4 Available for sale reserve date and spread over the vesting period via a charge to the income The available for sale reserve comprises all movements arising on the statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
revaluation and disposal of assets accounted for as available for sale.
The fair value of the share options and awards is measured using 4.7.
5 Retained losses either a Monte Carlo or Black-Scholes model, as appropriate, taking into account the terms and conditions of the individual scheme.
Under The retained losses reserve comprises of profit for the year attributable these valuation methods, the share price for ITV plc is projected to the to owners of the company of 269 million 2009: 91 million and other end of the performance period as is the Total Shareholder Return for items recognised directly through equity as presented on the ITV plc and the companies in the comparator groups.
Based on these consolidated statement of changes in equity.
projections, the number of awards that will vest and their present value is determined.
6 Non-controlling interests The valuation of these share-based payments also requires estimates In 2010 1 million of profit was attributable to non-controlling interests.
to be made in respect of the number of options that are expected to The 7 million movement in 2009 was 3 million profit attributable to be exercised.
non-controlling interests, net of 2 million for dividends paid to such Vesting conditions are limited to service conditions and performance interests and 8 million in respect of the 25% non-controlling interest conditions.
Conditions other than service or performance conditions are element in GMTV purchased in November 2009. considered non-vesting conditions.
7 Share-based compensation included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the A transaction will be classed as a share-based transaction where the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of Group receives services from employees and pays for these in shares or the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a similar equity instruments.
If the Group incurs a liability whose amount corresponding adjustment to equity.
is based on the price or value of the Groups shares then this will also fall under a share-based transaction.
1 Share capital and share premium The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes.
The Groups share capital at 31 December 2010 of 389 million 2009: A description of each type of share-based payment arrangement that 389 million and share premium of 120 million 2009: 120 million existed at any time during the period, including the general terms and is the same as that of ITV plc.
Details of this are given in the ITV plc conditions of each arrangement, such as vesting requirements, the Company financial statements section of this annual report.
maximum term of options granted, and the method of settlement e. g. whether in cash or equity are set out in the Remuneration report.
Exercises of share options granted to employees can be satisfied by market purchase or issue of new shares.
No new shares may be issued to satisfy exercises under the terms of the Deferred Share Award Plan.
During the year all exercises were satisfied by using shares purchased in the market and held in the ITV Employees Benefit Trust rather than by issuing new shares.
Share-based compensation charges totalled 8 million in 2010 2009: 11 million.
107 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements The table below summarises the movements in the number of share options outstanding for the Group and their weighted average exercise price: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted Number average Number average of options exercise price of options exercise price 000 pence 000 pence Outstanding at 1 January 101,989 63.94 116,454 71.88 Granted during the year nil priced 25,792 26,821 Granted during the year other 3,438 42.90 13,498 28.60 Forfeited during the year 6,311 21.63 12,794 39.23 Exercised during the year 8,141 1.79 8,772 Expired during the year 39,465 121.42 33,218 52.19 Outstanding at 31 December 77,302 22.32 101,989 63.94 Exercisable at 31 December 8,767 121.61 33,694 160.42 For those options exercised in the year, the average share price during 2010 was 59.99 pence 2009: 38.37 pence.
The ITV SAYE scheme is an Inland Revenue Approved SAYE scheme.
Although awards remain Full details of the ITV share plans and awards can be found in the vested but unexercised under these Plans, they are not considered Remuneration report.
material for the purposes of disclosure in this note.
Awards made under the ITV Commitment Scheme, Granada Media The awards made under the ITV Performance Share Plan and the ITV and Granada Commitment schemes, the Granada Media, Granada Turnaround Plan all have market based performance conditions that are and Carlton Executive Share Option schemes, the Carlton Equity taken into account in the fair value calculation using a Monte-Carlo Participation Plan, the Carlton Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and the pricing model.
The Black-Scholes model is used to value the SAYE Granada Save As You Earn SAYE have all reached the end of their Schemes as these do not have any market performance conditions.
various performance periods, and have vested or lapsed accordingly.
Details of the performance criteria that applied to these awards have Assumptions made relating to grants of share options during 2010 and been detailed in the notes to previous financial statements, and in 2009 are as follows: previous remuneration reports and have not been repeated in these Share price at Exercise Expected Expected Gross dividend Risk Fair Date of grant price volatility life yield free rate value Scheme name grant pence pence % years % % pence Save As You Earn ITV three year 17-Jul-09 35.00 28.60 53.00% 3.25 2.40% 17.00 ITV five year 17-Jul-09 35.00 28.60 43.00% 5.25 3.10% 18.00 ITV three year 01-Apr-10 62.95 42.90 56.00% 3.25 1.97% 21.45 ITV five year 01-Apr-10 62.95 42.90 45.00% 5.25 2.89% 22.75 Performance Share Plan ITV three year 01-Jun-09 40.00 53.00% 3.00 2.10% 30.20 ITV three year 26-Mar-10 58.70 56.00% 3.00 1.88% 39.55 ITV three year 03-Aug-10 51.60 57.00% 3.00 1.42% 34.15 Nil-Cost Options award under deed ITV three year 26-Apr-10 69.40 56.00% 3.00 2.00% 50.35 108 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs continued The expected volatility for awards made in 2010 reflects the historic volatility of ITV plcs share price and equity markets as a whole over the preceding three or five years, and depending on the expected life of the award, prior to the grant date of the share options awarded.
Employees Benefit Trust The Group has investments in its own shares as a result of shares purchased by the ITV Employees Benefit Trust EBT.
Transactions with the Group-sponsored EBT are included in these financial statements.
In particular, the EBTs purchases of shares in ITV plc are debited directly to equity.
The table below shows the number of ITV plc shares held in the trust at 31 December 2010 and the purchases releases from the EBT made in the year to satisfy awards under the Groups share schemes.
Number of shares Nominal value Shares held at: released purchased Scheme 1 January 2010 3,528,761 352,876 ITV Deferred Share 6,776,765 677,677 Award Plan Granada Commitment 984,401 98,440 Scheme 377,507 37,751 ITV SAYE Scheme Employee 113,406 11,340 Share Award 7,037,274 703,727 Shares purchased 31 December 2010 2,313,956 231,395 The total number of shares held by the EBT at 31 December 2010 represents 0.06% 2009: 0.09% of ITVs issued share capital.
The market value of own shares held is 2 million 2009: 2 million.
The shares will be held in the EBT until such time as they may be transferred to participants of the various Group share schemes.
Rights to dividends have been waived by the EBT in respect of shares held which do not relate to restricted shares under the Deferred Share Award Plan.
In accordance with the Trust Deed, the Trustees of the EBT have the power to exercise all voting rights in relation to any investment including shares held within that trust.
109 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Section 5 Other notes Responsibility Governance Financial statements 5.1 Related party transactions The related parties identified by the directors include joint ventures, associated undertakings, investments and key management personnel.
To enable users of our financial statements to form a view about the effects of related party relationships on the Group, we disclose the related party relationship when control exists, irrespective of whether there have been transactions between the related parties.
Related party transactions Amounts paid to the Groups retirement benefit plans are set out in note 3.6.
During the year the Group and the Trustee of the main section Transactions with joint ventures and associated undertakings of the ITV Pension Scheme concluded a partnership, backed by SDN.
The full details of this arrangement are set out in note 3.6 and the Transactions with joint ventures and associated undertakings during the Financial and performance review.
year were: 2010 Transactions with key management personnel 2009 m m Key management consists of ITV plc executive and non-executive Sales to joint ventures 13 4 directors and the ITV Management Board.
Key management personnel Sales to associated undertakings 2 2 compensation is as follows: Purchases from joint ventures 21 13 2010 2009 Purchases from associated undertakings 50 46 m m Short-term employee benefits 8 10 The transactions with joint ventures primarily relate to sales and Post-employment benefits 1 1 purchased of digital multiplex services with Digital 3&4 Limited.
Termination benefits 2 2 The purchases from associated undertakings relate to the purchase of Share-based compensation 4 5 news services from ITN.
All transactions with associated undertakings 15 18 and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business on an armslength basis.
None of the balances are secured.
The amounts owed by and to these related parties at the year-end were: 2010 2009 m m Amounts owed by joint ventures 1 25 Amounts owed by associated undertakings 8 4 Amounts owed by pension scheme 1 1 Amounts owed to joint ventures 1 1 Amounts owed to associated undertakings 1 110 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Section 5 Other notes continued Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2010 the following holdings in significant joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments: Interest in Interest in ordinary share ordinary share capital 2010 capital 2009 Name Note % % Principal activity Crackit Productions Limited a 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes Provision of a standard and high definition Freesat UK Limited b 50.00 50.00 enabled digital satellite proposition Supply of news services to broadcasters Independent Television News Limited a 40.00 40.00 in the UK and elsewhere Operates voluntary numbering system for the identification of audiovisual works ISAN UK Limited a 25.00 25.00 Mammoth Screen Limited a 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes 1 Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited b 50.00 50.00 European cinema advertising 2 STV Group plc c 6.91 7.36 Television broadcasting in central and north Scotland Digital 3&4 Limited b 50.00 50.00 Operates the Channel 3 and 4 digital terrestrial multiplex YouView TV Limited b 14.30 Internet connected television platform 1 Classified as an Asset Held for Sale.
2 Incorporated and registered in Scotland.
c Available for sale financial asset.
5.2 Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for recognition as a provision where uncertainty may exist regarding the outcome of future events.
There has been a disagreement between the Group, STV Group plc and In a separate action STV Central and STV North issued proceedings on the two licence holding subsidiaries, STV Central and STV North, as to the 16 November 2009 against ITV Network and other Group companies in amounts of money due and payable to the Group.
A legal claim, based relation to the exploitation of new media rights in the UK.
Through the upon the balances outstanding at 30 April 2009, for approximately proceedings STV Central and STV North seek an injunction to prevent the 38 million in respect of outstanding invoices, was filed on 22 September ITV Network from entering into any UK wide deals involving new media 2009 and Particulars of Claim were served on 24 September 2009. rights and seek declarations in relation to how the rights are owned and Since then STV has admitted over 37 million in full satisfaction of the may be exploited.
The Group rejects this claim and intends to defend it Groups claim.
No provision has been made in these financial statements for this claim.
The Group recognises that certain amounts are due to STV and these and other amounts are the subject of a counterclaim served by STV on On 24 February 2010, STV issued a letter alleging that the Group has 13 November 2009.
Prior to the litigation, the Group and STV have come acted with unfair prejudice against the interests of STV and that ITV to an arrangement whereby amounts owed to each other will be set off, Network is in breach of its fiduciary duties to STV.
ITV Network rejects although until the current litigation is resolved, that amount cannot be these allegations and will vigorously defend any claim that is brought.
For the period after 30 April 2009, the Group and There are other contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and STV have agreed to operate a monthly payment on account scheme so guarantees, and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain that the operations may continue effectively.
None of these items are expected to have a material affect on the Groups results or financial position.
5.3 Subsequent events Where the Group receives information in the period between 31 December 2010 and the date of this report about conditions related to certain events that existed at the year-end, we update our disclosures that relate to those conditions in light of the new information.
Such events can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting depending on whether the condition existed in 2010.
If non-adjusting events after the year-end are material, non-disclosure could influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements.
Accordingly, for each material category of non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose in this section the nature of the event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made.
There are no subsequent events.
111 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials ITV plc Company Financial Statements Responsibility Governance Financial statements Company balance sheet 2010 2010 2009 2009 At 31 December: Note m m m m Fixed assets: Investments in subsidiary undertakings iii 1,646 1,671 Held to maturity investments 148 149 Derivative financial instruments 89 151 1,883 1,971 Current assets: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 9 173 Derivative financial instruments 67 Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 33 146 109 319 Creditors amounts falling due within one year: Borrowings iv 47 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 111 173 Accruals and deferred income 16 21 174 194 Net current liabilities assets 65 125 Total assets less current liabilities 1,818 2,096 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year: Borrowings iv 1,171 1,366 Derivative financial instruments 39 29 1,210 1,395 Net assets 608 701 Capital and reserves: Called up share capital v 389 389 Share premium vi 120 120 Other reserves vi 67 71 Profit and loss account vi 32 121 Shareholders funds equity 608 701 The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 2 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Ian Griffiths Director 112 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements i Accounting policies Third party valuations are used to fair value the Companys derivatives.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate yield curves Basis of preparation and currency prices yields, volatilities of underlying instruments and These accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally correlations between inputs.
Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly profit and loss account, dealing with the results of the parent company, probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss has not been presented.
on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement to profit and loss account.
provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the grounds that it is included in publicly available consolidated financial statements For financial assets and liabilities classified at fair value through which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent to profit or loss the fair value change and interest income expense are that standard.
Subsidiaries Dividends Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power to govern by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits ii Employees from its activities.
The investment in the Companys subsidiaries is recorded at cost, adjusted for the effect of the adoption of UITF 41.
Four 2009: four directors of ITV plc were employees of the Company Annual FRS 20 share-based payment compensation costs are recharged during the year, two of which remain at year end.
The costs relating to to the subsidiaries through the profit and loss account.
these directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
Foreign currency transactions iii Investments in subsidiary undertakings Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note ix.
of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency The movements during 2010 were as follows: monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated m into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign At 1 January 2010 1,671 exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the profit Disposal of Friends Reunited 25 and loss account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange on At 31 December 2010 1,646 the date of the transaction.
The Company disposed of its 100% interest in Friends Reunited Holdings Limited on 25 March 2010 to Brightsolid Online Innovation Limited Borrowings a wholly-owned subsidiary of D. C. Thompson Limited for a cash Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value including directly consideration of 27 million.
The sale resulted in no material gain attributable transaction costs, with subsequent measurement at or loss on disposal in 2010. amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The difference between initial fair value and the redemption value is recorded in the iv Borrowings profit and loss account over the period of the liability on an effective interest basis.
Current loans and loan notes due within one year Loans repayable in one year or less as at 31 December 2010 comprise Derivatives and other financial instruments an unsecured 54 million Eurobond 47 million which has a coupon of The Company uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments 6.0% and matures in October 2011. to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and other foreign Loan repayable after more than one year exchange rates.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
Loans repayable after more than one year as at 31 December 2010 includes an unsecured 110 million Eurobond which has a coupon of Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and three-month sterling LIBOR plus 2.7% and matures in March 2013, an are subsequently remeasured at fair value with the movement recorded unsecured 188 million Eurobond 126 million net of cross-currency in the profit and loss account within net financing costs.
Derivatives swaps which has a coupon of 10.0% and matures in June 2014 and an with a positive fair value are recorded as assets and negative fair values unsecured 383 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 5.375% and as liabilities.
Maturing in November 2016 is an unsecured The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined by 135 million convertible Eurobond which has a coupon of 4.0%.
using the difference between the contract exchange rate and the An unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 7.375% and quoted forward exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
The fair value matures in January 2017 and an unsecured bank loan for 200 million of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Company would which has a coupon of 6.75% until March 2012 and a variable rate receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking thereafter which matures in March 2019. into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
113 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements v Called up share capital vii Contingent liabilities Allotted, issued Under a group registration, the Company is jointly and severally liable Authorised and fully paid for VAT at 31 December 2010 of 39 million 31 December 2009: 2010 2009 2010 2009 25 million.
The Company has guaranteed certain finance and m m m m operating lease obligations of subsidiary undertakings.
Ordinary shares of 10 pence each There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and Authorised: guarantees and in respect of warranties given in connection with 8,000,000,000 2009: 8,000,000,000 800 800 certain disposals of businesses and in respect of certain trading and Allotted, issued and fully paid: other obligations of certain subsidiaries.
3,889,129,751 2009: 3,889,129,751 389 389 Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to Total 800 800 389 389 guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts The Companys ordinary shares give shareholders equal rights to vote, for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee receive dividends and to the repayment of capital.
There have been no contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable issued ordinary share capital movements during the period.
that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
vi Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Profit viii Capital and other commitments Share Share Other and loss capital premium reserves account Total There are no capital commitments at 31 December 2010 2009: none.
m m m m m At 1 January 2010 389 120 71 121 701 ix Related party transactions Retained loss for year for Transactions with key management personnel equity shareholders 101 101 Share-based compensation 8 8 Key management consists of ITV plc executive directors.
Key management personnel compensation is as follows: Equity portion of the convertible bond 4 4 2010 2009 m m At 31 December 2010 389 120 67 32 608 Short-term employee benefits 3 5 The loss after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of ITV plc is Termination benefits 1 101 million year ended 31 December 2009: profit of 67 million.
Share-based compensation 2 3 On 17 February 2011 the Company received a dividend of 75 million 6 8 from its subsidiary Carlton Communications Limited, resulting in an increase in profit and loss reserves.
114 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements continued x Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2010, all of which are wholly-owned directly or indirectly and incorporated and registered in England and Wales except where stated, are: Name Principal activity 12 Yard Productions Investments Limited Production of television programmes 1 3sixtymedia Limited Supplier of facilities for television productions Carlton Communications Limited Holding company ITV Breakfast Limited previously GMTV Limited Production and broadcast of breakfast time television under national Channel 3 licence Granada Limited Holding company Granada Ventures Limited Production and distribution of video and DVD products ITV Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes ITV Consumer Limited Development of platforms, broadband, transactional and mobile services ITV Digital Channels Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Global Entertainment Limited Rights ownership and distribution of television programmes and films 2 ITV Network Limited Scheduling and commissioning television programmes ITV Services Limited Provision of services for other companies within the Group ITV Studios Limited Production of television programmes ITV2 Limited Operation of digital television channels SDN Limited Operation of Freeview Multiplex A 3 Granada Media Australia Pty Limited Production of television programmes 4 Granada Produktion fr Film und Fernsehen GmbH Production of television programmes 4, 5 Imago TV Film und Fernsehproduktion GmbH Production of television programmes 6 ITV Global Entertainment, Inc Distribution of television programmes 6 ITV Studios, Inc. formerly Granada Entertainment USA Production of television programmes 7 ITV Scottish Limited Partnership Holding company 1 80% owned.
7 99.9% owned SPE partnership with the remaining interest held by the ITV pension scheme.
Fully consolidated in the Group 2 Interest in company limited by guarantee.
Incorporated and registered in Scotland holding the ownership interest in SDN.
The Group has taken advantage 3 Incorporated and registered in Australia.
of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not 4 Incorporated and registered in Germany.
appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts.
Separate accounts for the partnership are not 5 67.72% owned.
required to be, and have not been filed at Companies House.
6 Incorporated and registered in the USA.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2010 the following holdings in significant joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments: Interest in Interest in ordinary ordinary share capital share capital 2010 2009 Name Note % % Principal activity Crackit Productions Limited a 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes Freesat UK Limited b 50.00 50.00 Provision of a standard and high definition enabled digital satellite proposition Independent Television News Limited a 40.00 40.00 Supply of news services to broadcasters in the UK and elsewhere ISAN UK Limited a 25.00 25.00 Operates voluntary numbering system for the identification of audiovisual works Mammoth Screen Limited a 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes 1 Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited b 50.00 50.00 European cinema advertising 2 STV Group plc c 6.91 7.36 Television broadcasting in central and north Scotland Digital 3&4 Limited b 50.00 50.00 Operates the Channel 3 and 4 digital terrestrial multiplex YouView TV Limited b 14.30 Internet connected television platform 1 Classified as an Asset Held for Sale.
xi Post balance sheet events There are no post balance sheet events.
