Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements If a cancellation by either party occurs, the entity recognises 1 General information the amount of expense that would have been recognised over J Sainsbury plc is a public limited company Company incorporated the remaining vesting period.
The grant date fair value should in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on the incorporate an estimate of the number of employees who will London Stock Exchange.
The Company is domiciled in the United cease to contribute to the scheme otherwise than through Kingdom and its registered address is 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT, termination of employment before the options vest.
amendment to IFRS 2 affects the Groups Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
The implementation of the amendment has The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010 prior had no material impact on prior year financial statements.
financial year 52 weeks to 21 March 2009.
The consolidated financial IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements statements for the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010 comprise the financial The revised standard requires non-owner changes in equity statements of the Company and its subsidiaries Group and the to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
Groups interests in joint ventures.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement.
The Groups principal activities are grocery and related retailing.
The Group has elected to present two statements: an income 2 Accounting policies statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
The a Statement of compliance financial statements have been prepared under the revised The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance disclosure requirements.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as IFRS 8 Operating Segments adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting.
It requires a Interpretations Committee IFRICs interpretations and with those management approach under which segment information is parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting under IFRSs.
The Companys financial statements have been purposes.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has resulted in no change in prepared on the same basis and, as permitted by Section 408 3 the reportable segments presented.
of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement is presented for the Company.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker b Basis of preparation CODM.
The CODM has been identified as the Groups Operating The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the Board.
Details of the Groups Operating Board are available on nearest million m unless otherwise stated.
They have been page 26 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010. prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes financial instruments, investment properties, available-for-sale IFRIC 13 requires customer loyalty credits to be accounted for as financial assets, share-based payments and retirement benefit plan a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are assets that have been measured at fair value.
A portion of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the loyalty credits and deferred over the period that The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs the loyalty credits are redeemed.
The implementation of IFRIC 13 requires the use of judgements, estimates and assumptions that has had no material impact on the financial statements.
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to expenses during the reporting period.
The estimates and associated published standards are effective for the Group for the financial year assumptions are based on historical experience and various other beginning 22 March 2009, but are not currently relevant for the factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, Group or do not have a significant impact on the Groups financial the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about statements, apart from additional disclosures: carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Revised IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, amendments The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or to IAS 1 relating to the disclosure of puttable instruments and areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the obligations arising on liquidation financial statements are disclosed in note 2c.
Revised IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements relating to the cost of an investment on first time adoption New standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation Effective for the Group in these financial statements: relating to puttable instruments and obligations arising on Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment liquidation Previously IFRS 2 described the treatment of a failure to meet Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures a vesting condition, but was not explicit about the accounting consequences of a failure to meet a condition other than a vesting IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, condition.
Under the Amendment, where the entity or counterparty Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction can choose to meet a non-vesting condition, a failure by the entity IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate or the counterparty to meet the non-vesting condition will be treated as a cancellation.
If neither the entity nor the counterparty IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation has the choice as to whether to meet a non-vesting condition, Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from a failure to meet this non-vesting condition does not have any May 2008 Annual Improvements to IFRSs accounting impact.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 51 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment loss in the financial statements of the Company.
Effective for the Group for the financial year beginning 21 March 2010: Joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment arising from Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities in which the Group has April 2009 Annual Improvements to IFRSs and Amendments an interest.
The Groups share of the results of its joint ventures are relating to group cash-settled share-based payment transactions included in the Group income statement using the equity method of Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations, Comprehensive and accounting.
Where the Group transacts with a joint venture, profits consequential amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the Financial Statements, IAS 28 Investments in Associates and joint venture.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures the assets transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Amendments to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations arising from May 2008 Annual Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group balance sheet Improvements to IFRSs at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
and Measurement Investments in joint ventures are carried at cost less any impairment IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners loss in the financial statements of the Company.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Foreign currencies Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from Foreign operations April 2009 Annual Improvements to IFRSs On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at year-end exchange rates.
The results The Group has considered the above new standards, interpretations of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average rates and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective of exchange for the year.
The functional currency of the Company and concluded that except for the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation is sterling.
of Financial Statements, they are either not relevant to the Group or that they would not have a significant impact on the Groups financial Exchange differences arising from the retranslation at year-end statements, apart from additional disclosures.
exchange rates of the net investment in foreign operations, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings or forward The IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendment provides contracts which are in substance part of the net investment in clarification that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of a foreign operation, are taken to equity and are reported in the equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
The convertible bond issued by the Group in 2009 will fall within the scope of this amendment when it is adopted in the financial year Foreign currency transactions beginning 21 March 2010.
This amendment is not expected to have Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet Effective for the Group for future financial years: date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures definition of income statement.
related parties Revenue Amendments to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets and excludes Value Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction Added Tax.
Sales through retail outlets are shown net of the cost of IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Nectar reward points issued and redeemed, staff discounts, vouchers and sales made on an agency basis.
Commission income is recognised The accounting policies set out below and in note 3 have been applied in revenue based on the terms of the contract.
consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements and have been applied consistently by the Group and the Company.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of goods and services have been passed to the buyer and it can be Consolidation measured reliably.
The Groups financial statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the post-tax Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all results of its joint ventures.
instruments measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
This calculation takes into account interest received or paid Subsidiaries and fees and commissions received or paid that are integral to the Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to yield as well as incremental transaction costs.
govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The results Fees and commissions earned by Sainsburys Bank, that are not of subsidiaries are included in the Group income statement from the integral to the yield, are recognised in the income statement as the date of acquisition, or in the case of disposals, up to the effective service is provided.
Where there is a risk of potential claw back, an date of disposal.
Intercompany transactions and balances between appropriate element of the insurance commission receivable is Group companies are eliminated upon consolidation.
deferred and amortised over the expected average life of the underlying loan.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of cost over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
52 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued within the income statement but is excluded from underlying profit in 2 Accounting policies continued order to provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying Cost of sales performance of Sainsburys ongoing business for shareholders.
Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including Currently the only investment properties the Group holds are those warehouse and transportation costs and all the costs of operating contained within its joint ventures with Land Securities Group PLC retail outlets.
Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are recognised within cost Impairment of non-financial assets of sales based on the expected entitlement at the balance sheet date.
At each full year balance sheet date, and again whenever indicators The accrued value at the reporting date is included in prepayments of impairment are detected, the Group reviews the carrying amounts and accrued income.
of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Property, plant and equipment If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, which Land and buildings is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
and any recognised impairment loss.
Properties in the course of Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent construction are held at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the Cost includes directly attributable costs and borrowing costs cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
For tangible capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
and intangible assets excluding goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading store.
For goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each retail Fixtures, equipment and vehicles chain of stores acquired.
Fixtures, equipment and vehicles are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
Where an impairment loss, other than an Depreciation impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases: to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
Freehold buildings and leasehold properties 50 years, or the Capitalisation of interest lease term if shorter Interest costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or Fixtures, equipment and vehicles 3 to 15 years construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset, gross of tax relief.
Freehold land is not depreciated Non-current assets held for sale Land and buildings under construction and non-current assets held Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated for sale are not depreciated.
at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds transaction rather than through continuing use.
with the assets carrying amount and are recognised within operating profit.
Leased assets Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease Intangible assets transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Pharmacy licences Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
For property Pharmacy licences are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation leases, the land and building elements are treated separately to and any impairment loss and amortised on a straight-line basis over determine the appropriate lease classification.
their useful economic life of 15 years within cost of sales.
Finance leases Computer software Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation plant and equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful and any impairment loss.
Externally-acquired computer software lives or the lease term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line is the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years.
Costs minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the relating to development of computer software for internal use are lease.
The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities net of capitalised once the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets finance charges.
Finance costs on finance leases are charged directly are met.
When the software is available for its intended use, these to the income statement.
costs are amortised over the estimated useful life of the software within administrative expenses.
Operating leases Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance Goodwill sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net Lease incentives identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or Goodwill is recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet in the rent-free periods.
Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over year in which it arises.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and the period of the lease term.
again whenever indicators of impairment are detected and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases The Group has a number of leases with predetermined fixed rental Investment property increases.
These rental increases are accounted for on a straight-line Investment properties are those properties held for capital appreciation basis over the term of the lease.
and or to earn rental income.
They are initially measured at cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial recognition at cost, Operating lease income they are carried at their fair values based on market value determined Operating lease income consists of rentals from sub-tenant by professional valuers at each reporting date.
The difference agreements and is recognised as earned.
between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its carrying amount prior to re-measurement is included Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 53 Notes to the financial statements continued Employee benefits 2 Accounting policies continued Pensions Inventories The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
pension schemes for its employees.
A defined benefit scheme is a Inventories at warehouses are valued on a first-in, first-out basis.
pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an Inventories at retail outlets are valued at calculated average cost employee will receive on retirement.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and other appropriate is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions attributable costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present into a separate entity.
In respect of defined benefit pension schemes, the pension scheme Cash and cash equivalents surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present deposits, investments in money market funds and deposits value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily The defined benefit obligation is actuarially calculated on an annual convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an basis using the projected unit credit method.
Plan assets are recorded insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are at fair value.
repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and The income statement charge is split between an operating service cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
cost and a financing charge, which is the net of interest cost on pension scheme liabilities and expected return on plan assets.
Current taxation Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Current tax is accounted for on the basis of tax laws enacted or which they arise, in the statement of other comprehensive income.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to items charged to equity, in which case the current tax is also dealt as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the with in equity.
balance sheet date are included as an accrual as at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the Deferred taxation contributions have been paid.
Deferred tax is accounted for on the basis of temporary differences arising from differences between the tax base and accounting base Long-service awards of assets and liabilities.
The costs of long-service awards are accrued over the period the service is provided by the employee.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, except to the extent where it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or Share-based payments a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors of the time of transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable the Group in the form of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based profit.
It is determined using tax rates and laws that have been payment transactions, whereby employees render services in enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and exchange for shares, rights over shares or the value of those shares are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset in cash terms.
is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
For equity-settled share-based payments the fair value of the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable employee services rendered is determined by reference to the fair that future taxable profits will be available against which the value of the shares awarded or options granted, excluding the impact temporary differences can be utilised.
of any non-market vesting conditions.
All share options are valued using an option-pricing model Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo.
This Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except fair value is charged to the income statement over the vesting period when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which of the share-based payment scheme, with the corresponding increase case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with For cash-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee investments in subsidiaries, branches, and joint ventures except services rendered is determined at each balance sheet date and the where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the charge recognised through the income statement over the vesting temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference period of the share-based payment scheme, with the corresponding will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions The value of the charge is adjusted in the income statement over the Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or remainder of the vesting period to reflect expected and actual levels constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is of options vesting, with the corresponding adjustments made in probable that an outflow of economic benefit will be required to equity and accruals.
settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Financial instruments Financial assets Onerous leases The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at Provisions for onerous leases, measured net of expected rental fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, and income, are recognised when the property leased becomes vacant available-for-sale AFS.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at and is no longer used in the operations of the business.
Provisions fair value through profit or loss and AFS investments are recognised for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value Restructuring and disposal through profit or loss.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
54 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment of financial assets 2 Accounting policies continued An assessment of whether there is objective evidence of impairment Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial is carried out for all financial assets or groups of financial assets at assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the balance sheet date.
This assessment may be of individual assets profit or loss at inception.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading individual impairment or of a portfolio of assets collective unless they are accounted for as an effective hedging instrument.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at considered to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence fair value, with any gains or losses recognised in the income statement of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after in the period in which they arise.
the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The Group has no intention of trading these loans and receivables.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried at For individual impairment the principal loss event is one or more amortised cost less impairment using the effective interest method.
missed payments, although other loss events can also be taken Income from these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield into account, including arrangements in place to pay less than the basis and is recognised in the income statement.
contractual payments, fraud and bankruptcy or other financial difficulty indicators.
An assessment of collective impairment will be Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either made of financial assets with similar risk characteristics.
For these designated in this category or not classified in any of the other assets, portfolio loss experience is used to provide objective evidence categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless of impairment.
management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss exists on assets are recorded at fair value with the movements in fair value loans and receivables, impairment provisions are made to reduce the recognised in other comprehensive income until the financial asset carrying value of financial assets to the present value of estimated is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised interest rate.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the entitys right to For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the charge to the receive payment is established.
Interest on AFS debt instruments income statement reflects the movement in the level of provisions is recognised using the effective interest method.
made, together with amounts written off net of recoveries in the year.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a flows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the Trade receivables cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently statement.
The cumulative loss is measured as the difference between at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss for impairment.
on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded initially at instruments are not reversed.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value fair value, which is generally the proceeds received, net of direct issue of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the costs.
Subsequently, these liabilities are held at amortised cost using increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the the effective interest method.
impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accrual Interest will continue to accrue on all financial assets, based on the basis to the income statement using the effective interest method written-down balance.
Interest is calculated using the rate of interest and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
To the extent that a provision may be increased or decreased in subsequent periods, the recognition of interest will The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is be based on the latest balance net of provision.
determined using the market interest rate for an equivalent nonconvertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an Fair value estimation amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity The methods and assumptions applied in determining the fair values of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds are allocated to the of financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed in note 29. conversion option.
This is recognised and included in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects and is not subsequently re-measured.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to financial risks associated with Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and the equity movements in exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses components of the convertible loan notes based on their carrying foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity to hedge these exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed component is charged directly against equity.
by the Groups treasury policies, as approved by the Board.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 55 Notes to the financial statements continued Goodwill impairment 2 Accounting policies continued The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any All derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair impairment loss, based on the recoverable amount of its CGUs.
value on the contract date and are also measured at fair value The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based at subsequent reporting dates.
on value in use calculations and these calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount Hedge relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where the rates as disclosed in note 12.
Actual outcomes could vary from derivative financial instruments hedge the exchange rate risk of these estimates.
future highly probable inventory purchases denominated in foreign currency.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments Impairment of assets that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are Financial and non-financial assets are subject to impairment reviews recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective based on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value.
flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in Recoverable amount is based on a calculation of expected future cash the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time flows which includes management assumptions and estimates of the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses future performance.
on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement Post-employment benefits of the asset or liability.
The Group operates various defined benefit schemes for its employees.
The present value of the schemes liabilities recognised at the balance Hedge relationships are classified as fair value hedges where the sheet date is dependent on interest rates of high quality corporate derivative financial instruments hedge the change in the fair value bonds.
The net financing charge recognised in the income statement of a financial asset or liability due to movements in interest rates.
is dependent on the interest rate of high quality corporate bonds and The changes in fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised an expectation of the weighted average returns on the assets within in the income statement.
Other key assumptions within this calculation are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, including The hedged item is also adjusted for changes in fair value attributable mortality rates, as set out in note 30. to the hedged risk, with the corresponding adjustment made in the income statement.
Provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations, To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents at the restructuring and disposal costs.
These provisions are estimates inception of the hedge, the hedging risk management strategy, the and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the or transaction and the nature of the risks being hedged.
The Group actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such also documents the assessment of the effectiveness of the hedging determination is made.
Detail of provisions are set out in note 22. relationship, to show that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
Income taxes The Group recognises expected liabilities for tax based on an Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that estimation of the likely taxes due, which requires significant do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income judgement as to the ultimate tax determination of certain items.
statement as finance income or costs as they arise.
Where the actual liability arising from these issues differs from these estimates, such differences will have an impact on income tax and Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument deferred tax provisions in the period when such determination is expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for made.
Detail of the tax charge and deferred tax are set out in notes hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 8 and 21 respectively.
hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged Reclassification of certain offsetting foreign exchange transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain gains and losses or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to The amounts presented for previous periods reflect the reclassification the income statement for the period.
of certain offsetting foreign exchange gains and losses on availablefor-sale AFS financial assets and the related cash flow hedges of Offsetting financial instruments Sainsburys Bank plc which were previously recognised in equity Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported rather than in the income statement.
Accordingly, for the 52 weeks in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset to 21 March 2009, the losses on AFS assets have been increased and the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net those on cash flow hedges reduced by 21 million.
For the 52 weeks basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
to 22 March 2008, the losses on AFS assets have been increased and those on cash flow hedges reduced by 58 million.
These adjustments c Judgements and estimates have no impact on total comprehensive income expense, total equity The Group makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future or net assets for either period and the amounts now recognised in the that impact the application of policies and reported amounts.
The income statement are fully offset within the share of post-tax profit resulting accounting estimates calculated using these judgements loss from joint ventures.
and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results but are based on historical experience and expectations of future events.
The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are discussed below.
56 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Non-GAAP performance measures Certain items recognised in reported profit before tax can vary significantly from year to year and therefore create volatility in reported earnings which does not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
The Directors believe that the underlying profit before tax UPBT and underlying diluted and basic earnings per share measures presented provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of Sainsburys ongoing business for shareholders.
As communicated at the time of the 2008 09 year-end announcement, the financing element of IAS 19 Employee Benefits pensions accounting has been excluded from UPBT.
Comparative amounts have been restated to reflect this change to the definition of UPBT.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRSs, and therefore may not be directly comparable with the adjusted profit measures of other companies.
The adjusted items are: Profit loss on sale of properties: Investment property fair value movements these movements reflect the difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its carrying amount at the previous reporting date: Financing fair value movements these movements are fair value gains and losses on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost, on derivatives relating to financing activities and on hedged items in fair value hedges: Impairment of goodwill: The financing element of IAS 19 Employee Benefits: and One-off items these items are material and infrequent in nature.
The adjustments made to reported profit before tax to arrive at underlying profit before tax are: 2010 2009 m m Underlying profit before tax 610 519 Profit on sale of properties 27 57 Investment property fair value movements 123 124 1 Financing fair value movements 15 10 IAS 19 pension financing charge credit 24 24 One-off item: Office of Fair Trading dairy inquiry 12 - Total adjustments 123 53 Profit before tax 733 466 1 Financing fair value movements for the financial year comprised 12 million for the Group 2009: 7 million and 3 million for the joint ventures 2009: 3 million.
Office of Fair Trading dairy inquiry The Group has reversed 12 million of costs associated with the Office of Fair Trading OFT dairy inquiry, in line with the OFTs announcement in April 2010.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 57 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segment reporting The Groups businesses are organised into three operating segments: Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience : Financial services Sainsburys Bank joint venture : and Property investment British Land joint venture and Land Securities joint venture.
Management have determined the operating segments based on the information provided to the Operating Board the CODM to make operational decisions on the management of the Group.
All material operations and assets are in the UK.
The business of the Group is not subject to highly seasonal fluctuations although there is an increase in trading in the period leading up to Christmas.
The Group has continued to include additional voluntary disclosure analysing the Groups Financial Services and Property joint ventures into separate reportable segments.
Revenue from operating segments is measured on a basis consistent with the income statement.
All revenue is generated by the sale of goods and services.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
The Operating Board assesses the performance of Retailing on the basis of profit generated by the sales and the costs directly attributable to that segment which are contained within underlying profit.
The reconciliation provided below reconciles underlying operating profit from each of the segments disclosed to profit before tax.
Financial Property Retailing services investments Group m m m m 52 weeks to 20 March 2010 Segment revenue 19,964 - - 19,964 Underlying operating profit 671 - - 671 Underlying finance income 33 - - 33 Underlying finance costs 112 - - 112 Underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures - 7 11 18 Underlying profit before tax 592 7 11 610 Profit on sale of properties 27 - - 27 Investment property fair value movements - - 123 123 Financing fair value movements 12 - 3 15 IAS 19 pension financing charge 24 - - 24 One-off item: Office of Fair Trading dairy inquiry 12 - - 12 Profit before tax 595 7 131 733 Income tax expense 148 Profit for the financial year 585 Assets 10,406 - - 10,406 Investment in joint ventures - 102 347 449 Segment assets 10,406 102 347 10,855 Segment liabilities 5,889 - - 5,889 Other segment items 1 Capital expenditure 1,003 - - 1,003 Depreciation expense 466 - - 466 Amortisation expense 13 - - 13 Provision for impairment of receivables 1 - - 1 Share-based payments 42 - - 42 1 Capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 992 million and intangibles additions of 11 million.
58 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segment reporting continued Financial Property Retailing services investments Group m m m m 52 weeks to 21 March 2009 Segment revenue 18,911 - - 18,911 Underlying operating profit 616 - - 616 2 Underlying finance income 28 - - 28 Underlying finance costs 141 - - 141 Underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures - 4 12 16 2 Underlying profit before tax 503 4 12 519 Profit on sale of properties 57 - - 57 Investment property fair value movements - - 124 124 Financing fair value movements 7 - 3 10 IAS 19 pension financing credit 24 - - 24 Profit loss before tax 577 4 115 466 Income tax expense 177 Profit for the financial year 289 Assets 9,745 - - 9,745 Investment in joint ventures 1 72 215 288 Segment assets 9,746 72 215 10,033 Segment liabilities 5,657 - - 5,657 Other segment items 3 Capital expenditure 1,105 - - 1,105 Depreciation expense 453 - - 453 Amortisation expense 15 - - 15 Provision for impairment of receivables 1 - - 1 Share-based payments 40 - - 40 2 Underlying finance income and underlying profit before tax have been restated due to the change in the definition of underlying profit before tax, see note 3.
3 Capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 1,081 million, property, plant and equipment acquired through business combinations of 4 million, intangibles additions of 10 million and intangibles generated through business combinations of 10 million.
Due to the nature of its activities, the Group is not reliant on any individual major customers.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 59 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Operating profit 2010 2009 m m Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following items: Employee costs note 7 2,075 2,003 Depreciation expense note 11 466 453 Amortisation expense note 12 13 15 Profit on sale of properties note 3 27 57 Charges relating to the impairment of receivables 1 1 Provision for diminution in value of investment in joint venture 1 - Operating lease rentals l and and buildings 388 344 other leases 54 52 sublease payments received 37 39 Foreign exchange gains 6 10 Office of Fair Trading dairy inquiry note 3 12 - Group 2010 2009 m m Auditors remuneration Audit and audit related services Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of the Group and the Company financial statements 0.2 0.2 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.5 Audit related services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for other services as detailed below: Tax services - 0.6 All other services 0.5 0.3 1.3 1.7 6 Finance income and finance costs 2010 2009 m m Interest on bank deposits and other financial assets 33 28 IAS 19 pension financing credit note 30 - 24 Finance income 33 52 Borrowing costs Secured borrowings 75 119 Unsecured borrowings 47 33 Obligations under finance leases 3 3 Provisions amortisation of discount note 22 2 1 127 156 Interest capitalised qualifying assets 15 15 IAS 19 pension financing charge note 30 24 - 1 Financing fair value movements 12 7 Finance costs 148 148 1 Fair value movements relate to fair value adjustments on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost and on derivatives relating to financing activities and hedged items in fair value hedges.
60 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Employee costs 2010 2009 m m Employee costs for the Group during the year amounted to: Wages and salaries, including bonus and termination benefits 1,823 1,758 Social security costs 128 121 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 33 31 Pension costs defined benefit schemes note 30 49 53 Share-based payments expense note 31 42 40 2,075 2,003 Number Number 000s 000s The average number of employees, including Directors, during the year were: Full-time 47.3 49.7 Part-time 99.6 98.8 146.9 148.5 Full-time equivalent 97.3 97.3 All employees were employed in the United Kingdom for the periods presented.
8 Income tax expense 2010 2009 m m Current tax expense Current year 152 171 Over provision in prior years 73 25 79 146 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 38 24 Under provision in prior years 31 7 69 31 Total income tax expense in income statement 148 177 1 Income tax expense on underlying profit 174 151 Tax on items below: Profit on sale of properties 15 21 Financing fair value movements 4 2 IAS 19 pension financing charge credit 7 7 Total income tax expense in income statement 148 177 1 Tax charge attributable to underlying profit before tax, restated for the change in the definition of underlying profit before tax, see note 3.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 61 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Income tax expense continued The effective tax rate of 20.2 per cent 2009: 38.0 per cent is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below: 2010 2009 m m Profit before taxation 733 466 1 Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 28.00% 2009: 28.05% 205 131 Effects of: Disallowed depreciation on UK properties 22 20 Non-deductible expenses 7 9 Investment property fair value movements 34 35 Over provision in prior years 42 18 Share of results of joint ventures 4 2 Other 6 2 Total income tax expense in income statement 148 177 1 The income tax rate of 28.05% is slightly higher than the 28% statutory tax rate due to the historic rate of 30% applying between 23 March 2008 and 31 March 2008 inclusive.
Income tax charged or credited to equity during the year is as follows: Share based Pension AFS fair value payments scheme movements Total m m m m 52 weeks to 20 March 2010 Current tax recognised in equity 3 17 1 19 Deferred tax recognised in equity 1 31 10 20 Income tax charged to equity 2 48 11 39 52 weeks to 21 March 2009 Current tax 3 - - 3 Current tax prior year adjustment 3 - - 3 Current tax recognised in equity - - - - Deferred tax 2 253 4 255 Deferred tax prior year adjustment 2 - - 2 Deferred tax recognised in equity - 253 4 257 Income tax charged to equity - 253 4 257 The current and deferred tax in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes actuarial gains and losses and AFS fair value movements have been charged or credited through other comprehensive income.
62 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts note 25, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders are adjusted by the interest on the convertible bonds net of tax.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the number of shares that would be issued if all convertible bonds are assumed to be converted.
Underlying earnings per share is provided by excluding the effect of any profit or loss on sale of properties, investment property fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value movements, IAS 19 pension financing element and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
This alternative measure of earnings per share is presented to reflect the Groups underlying trading performance.
All operations are continuing for the periods presented.
2010 2009 million million Weighted average number of shares in issue 1,821.7 1,738.5 Weighted average number of dilutive share options 16.0 24.7 Weighted average number of dilutive convertible bonds 34.9 - Total number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 1,872.6 1,763.2 m m Profit for the financial year 585 289 Add: interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 6 - Diluted earnings for calculating diluted earnings per share 591 289 m m Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent 585 289 Less add net of tax : Profit on sale of properties 42 36 Investment property fair value movements 123 124 Financing fair value movements 11 8 IAS 19 pension financing charge credit 17 17 One-off item: Office of Fair Trading dairy inquiry 12 - 1 Underlying profit after tax 436 368 Add: interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 6 - 1 Diluted underlying profit after tax 442 368 pence pence per share per share Basic earnings 32.1 16.6 Diluted earnings 31.6 16.4 1 Underlying basic earnings 23.9 21.2 1 Underlying diluted earnings 23.6 20.9 1 Underlying profit after tax and diluted underlying profit after tax for the previous period have been restated for the change in the definition of underlying profit after tax, as described in note 3.
10 Dividend 2010 2009 pence pence 2010 2009 per share per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend of prior financial year 9.60 9.00 167 155 Interim dividend of current financial year 4.00 3.60 74 63 13.60 12.60 241 218 After the balance sheet date, a final dividend of 10.20 pence per share 2009: 9.60 pence per share was proposed by the Directors in respect of the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010, resulting in a total final proposed dividend of 189 million 2009: 167 million.
The proposed final dividend has not been included as a liability at 20 March 2010.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 63 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment Group Group Company Land and Fixtures and Group Land and buildings equipment Total buildings m m m m Cost At 22 March 2009 7,454 4,897 12,351 45 Additions 624 368 992 - Disposals 95 130 225 - Transfer to assets held for sale 56 6 62 - At 20 March 2010 7,927 5,129 13,056 45 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 22 March 2009 1,206 3,324 4,530 3 Depreciation expense for the year 125 341 466 - Disposals 14 118 132 - Transfer to assets held for sale 8 3 11 - At 20 March 2010 1,309 3,544 4,853 3 Net book value at 20 March 2010 6,618 1,585 8,203 42 Capital work-in-progress included above 354 94 448 - Cost At 23 March 2008 7,068 4,677 11,745 117 Additions 626 455 1,081 - Acquisition of subsidiaries 4 - 4 - Disposals 225 233 458 72 Transfer to assets held for sale 19 2 21 - At 21 March 2009 7,454 4,897 12,351 45 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 23 March 2008 1,123 3,198 4,321 8 Depreciation expense for the year 113 340 453 1 Disposals 28 212 240 6 Transfer to assets held for sale 2 2 4 - At 21 March 2009 1,206 3,324 4,530 3 Net book value at 21 March 2009 6,248 1,573 7,821 42 Capital work-in-progress included above 428 121 549 - Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m The net book value of land and buildings comprised: Freehold land and building 5,046 4,777 42 42 Long leasehold 1,013 951 - - Short leasehold 559 520 - - 6,618 6,248 42 42 64 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment of property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, each store is a cash-generating unit CGU.
CGUs are tested for impairment at each reporting date if there are indications of impairment.
The recoverable amounts for the CGUs are based on value in use which is calculated on the cash flows expected to be generated by the units using the latest budget and forecast data, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculation are the discount rate, growth rates and expected changes in margin.
Changes in income and expenditure are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term growth rates of three per cent to four per cent.
The discount rate is based on the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of ten per cent 2009: ten per cent.
Interest capitalised Interest capitalised included in additions amounted to 15 million 2009: 15 million for the Group and nil 2009: nil for the Company.
Accumulated interest capitalised included in the cost of property, plant and equipment net of disposals amounted to 267 million 2009: 255 million for the Group and nil 2009: nil for the Company.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 4.0 per cent 2009: 6.5 per cent.
Security Property, plant and equipment of 129 2009: 128 supermarket properties, with a net book value of 2,344 million 2009: 2,330 million has been pledged as security for the long-term financing note 20.
In addition, property, plant and equipment of a further six supermarket properties, with a net book value of 70 million 2009: 71 million has been pledged as security to underpin the residual value guarantee given by the Group with regards to 16 supermarket properties sold in March 2000 and ten supermarket properties sold in July 2000.
Analysis of assets held under finance leases Group 2010 2010 2009 2009 Land and Fixtures and 2010 Land and Fixtures and 2009 buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total m m m m m m Cost 50 15 65 50 - 50 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 22 1 23 21 - 21 Net book value 28 14 42 29 - 29 12 Intangible assets Pharmacy Goodwill licences Software Total m m m m Cost At 22 March 2009 114 35 131 280 Additions - 1 10 11 Disposals 14 - - 14 At 20 March 2010 100 36 141 277 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 22 March 2009 - 22 98 120 Amortisation expense for the year - 2 11 13 At 20 March 2010 - 24 109 133 Net book value at 20 March 2010 100 12 32 144 Cost At 23 March 2008 114 36 121 271 Additions - - 10 10 Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses 10 - - 10 Disposals 10 1 - 11 At 21 March 2009 114 35 131 280 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 23 March 2008 - 20 86 106 Amortisation expense for the year - 3 12 15 Disposals - 1 - 1 At 21 March 2009 - 22 98 120 Net book value at 21 March 2009 114 13 33 160 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 65 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued The goodwill balance above relates primarily to the Groups acquisition of Bells Stores Ltd, Jacksons Stores Ltd, JB Beaumont Ltd, SL Shaw Ltd, Culcheth Provision Stores Ltd, Town Centre Retail Bicester Ltd, SW Dewsbury Ltd and Portfolio Investments Ltd and is allocated to the respective cash-generating units CGUs within the retailing segment.
The CGUs for this purpose are deemed to be the respective acquired retail chains of stores.
The value of the goodwill was tested for impairment during the current financial year by means of comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU to the carrying value of its goodwill.
To calculate the CGUs value in use, Board approved cash flows for the following financial year are assumed to inflate at the long-term average growth rate for the UK food retail sector and are discounted at a pre-tax rate of ten per cent 2009: ten per cent over a 25 year period.
Based on the operating performance of the respective CGUs, no impairment loss was deemed necessary in the current financial year 2009: nil.
13 Investments in subsidiaries 2010 2009 m m Shares in subsidiaries Company Beginning of year 7,262 7,169 Additions 339 93 Disposal of subsidiaries 165 - Provision for diminution in value of investment 160 - End of year 7,276 7,262 The Companys principal operating subsidiaries, all of which are directly owned by the Company, are: Share of ordinary allotted Country of capital and registration or voting rights incorporation JS Insurance Ltd 100% Isle of Man JS Information Systems Ltd 100% England Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd 100% England All principal operating subsidiaries operate in the countries of their registration or incorporation, and have been consolidated up to and as at 20 March 2010.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 to disclose a list comprising solely of the principal subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries will be sent to Companies House with the next annual return.
14 Investments in joint ventures Group share Group of postCompany shares acquisition Group shares at cost reserves Total at cost m m m m At 22 March 2009 429 141 288 91 Additions in year 2 - 2 - Provision for diminution in value of investment - 1 1 - Share of retained profit Underlying profit after tax - 18 18 - Investment property fair value movements - 123 123 - Financing fair value movements - 3 3 - - 138 138 - Dividends received - 2 2 - Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 - 24 24 - At 20 March 2010 431 18 449 91 At 23 March 2008 138 10 148 91 Additions in year 291 - 291 - Share of retained loss Underlying profit after tax - 16 16 - Investment property fair value movements - 124 124 - Financing fair value movements - 3 3 - - 111 111 - Dividends received - 3 3 - Unrealised profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 5 5 - Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 - 32 32 - At 21 March 2009 429 141 288 91 66 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Investments in joint ventures continued The Groups principal joint ventures were: Share of Country of ordinary registration or Year-end allotted capital incorporation The Harvest Limited Partnership property investment UK 31 March 50% England BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited property investment UK 31 March 50% England Sainsburys Bank plc financial services UK 31 December 50% England Where relevant, management accounts for the joint ventures have been used to include the results up to 20 March 2010.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its principal joint ventures are detailed below: 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets 1,611 1,398 Current assets 1,824 1,494 Current liabilities 2,092 1,800 Non-current liabilities 899 809 Net assets 444 283 Income 186 239 Expenses 171 226 Investment property fair value movements 123 124 Profit loss after tax 138 111 Investments in joint ventures at 20 March 2010 include 5 million of goodwill 2009: 5 million.
15 Available-for-sale financial assets Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Noncurrent Interest bearing financial assets 24 7 24 7 Other financial asset 126 90 - - 150 97 24 7 The majority of available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in sterling.
The other financial asset represents the Groups beneficial interest in a commercial property investment pool.
The fair value of the other financial asset is based on discounted cash flows assuming a property rental growth rate of 3.1 per cent 2009: 2.8 per cent and a weighted average cost of capital of ten per cent 2009: ten per cent.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in either the current or the previous financial year see note 28 for sensitivity analysis.
16 Inventories 2010 2009 m m Goods held for resale 702 689 The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010 was 15,192 million 2009: 14,490 million.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 67 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Receivables Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Non-current Amounts due from Group entities - 1,080 1,005 Other receivables 35 45 35 45 35 45 1,115 1,050 Prepayments and accrued income 1 - - 36 45 1,115 1,050 Current Trade receivables 71 49 - Amounts due from Group entities - 545 369 Other receivables 101 88 21 11 172 137 566 380 Prepayments and accrued income 43 58 - 215 195 566 380 Non-current other receivables of 35 million 2009: 45 million comprise 5 million of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 2009: 15 million and 30 million of floating rate subordinated dated loan capital due from Sainsburys Bank plc 2009: 30 million note 32.
Current other receivables include 20 million of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital due from Sainsburys Bank plc 2009: 10 million note 32.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are on commercial terms.
Current other receivables are generally non-interest bearing.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arising from its retail operations is minimal given that the customer base is large and unrelated and that the overwhelming majority of customer transactions are settled through cash or secure electronic means.
New parties wishing to obtain credit terms with the Group are credit checked prior to invoices being raised and credit limits are determined on an individual basis.
The Group has trade and other receivables of 5 million 2009: 5 million that are past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent receivables for whom there is no recent history of default.
These have not been provided for as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The ageing analysis of these trade and other receivables are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Up to 8 weeks 5 5 Over 8 weeks - 5 5 Group trade and other receivables of 3 million 2009: 2 million and Company amounts due from Group entities of nil million 2009: 8 million are impaired and provided for.
The ageing of these receivables are as follows: Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Current - 8 Up to 8 weeks - - 8 to 20 weeks 1 - - Over 20 weeks 2 2 - 3 2 8 Movements in the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables are as follows: Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m At beginning of year 2 1 8 14 Additional provision 1 1 - Release of provision - 8 6 End of year 3 2 8 68 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Receivables continued The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Sterling 249 240 1,681 1,430 Euro 1 - - US dollar 1 - - 251 240 1,681 1,430 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade and current other receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Major counterparties are identified as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number of Balance Number of Balance counterparties m counterparties m Trade receivables 1 9 1 8 Other receivables 1 18 1 18 Related parties 1 56 1 56 Significant trade receivables identified above relate to amounts receivable from credit card companies.
At 20 March 2010, significant other receivables identified were amounts due from the National Health Service of 18 million 2009: 18 million.
Related party receivables are from the Groups joint venture, Sainsburys Bank plc.
Loans are approved by the Investment Committee and are determined by the Financial Services Authoritys capital funding requirements.
No major counterparty balances are considered overdue or impaired.
18 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets held for sale of 56 million 2009: 21 million consist of non-current assets relating to properties held in the Retailing segment.
Sale of these assets is expected to occur in the financial year beginning 21 March 2010.
19 Payables Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Current Trade payables 1,782 1,728 - Amounts due to Group entities - 4,446 3,479 Other payables 461 508 14 10 Accruals and deferred income 223 252 - 2,466 2,488 4,460 3,489 Noncurrent Amounts due to Group entities - 821 2,037 Accruals and deferred income 106 92 - 106 92 821 2,037 The Groups policy on payment of creditors is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Deferred income relates to the accounting for leases with fixed rental increases and lease incentives on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 69 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Borrowings Group Group Group Group 2010 2010 Group 2009 2009 Group Within After 2010 Within After 2009 one year one year Total one year one year Total m m m m m m Secured loans Loan due 2018 38 1,074 1,112 37 1,105 1,142 Loan due 2031 15 861 876 33 872 905 Unsecured loans Bank overdrafts 3 - 3 28 - 28 Bank loan - 50 50 35 - 35 Term loans due 2015 4 142 146 12 150 162 Convertible bond due 2014 1 171 172 - - - Loan notes 9 - 9 8 2 10 Finance lease obligations 3 59 62 1 48 49 Total borrowings 73 2,357 2,430 154 2,177 2,331 Company Company Company Company 2010 2010 Company 2009 2009 Company Within After 2010 Within After 2009 one year one year Total one year one year Total m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 1 - 1 8 - 8 Bank loan - 50 50 35 - 35 Term loan due 2015 1 102 103 - - - Convertible bond due 2014 1 171 172 - - - Total borrowings 3 323 326 43 - 43 Secured loans Secured loans are secured on 129 2009: 128 supermarket properties note 11 and comprise loans from two finance companies: a fixed rate amortising loan with an outstanding principal value of 1,100 million 2009: 1,130 million at a weighted average rate of 4.98 per cent stepping up to 5.36 per cent from April 2013 with an effective interest rate of 5.21 per cent and carrying amount of 1,112 million 2009: 1,142 million repayable over eight years: and an inflation-linked amortising loan with an outstanding principal value of 850 million 2009: 872 million at a fixed real rate of 2.36 per cent where principal and interest are uplifted annually by RPI subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent with a carrying amount of 876 million 2009: 905 million repayable over 21 years.
Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and bear interest at a spread above bank base rate.
Bank loan In May 2009, the Group increased and rolled over a maturing bilateral 35 million bank loan into a new three-year loan of 50 million.
Bank loans due 2015 In January 2010, the Group restructured its existing 150 million bank loan due 2015 into a new 110 million floating rate bank loan due 2015, leaving a 40 million loan due 2015 based on the original floating rate terms subject to a cap rate.
Convertible bond due 2014 In July 2009, the Group issued 190 million of unsecured convertible bonds due July 2014.
The bonds pay a coupon of 4.25 per cent payable semi-annually.
Each bond is convertible into ordinary shares of J Sainsbury plc at any time up to 9 July 2014 with an initial conversion price of 418.5 pence.
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert all of the 190 million convertible bond from fixed to floating rates of interest.
These transactions have been accounted for as fair value hedges note 29.
The net proceeds of the convertible bond have been split into a liability component of 166 million and an equity component of 24 million.
The equity component represents the fair value of the embedded option to convert the bond into ordinary shares of the Company.
70 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Borrowings continued 2010 2009 m m Face value of the convertible bond issued in July 2009 190 - Equity component 24 - Liability component on initial recognition in July 2009 166 - Interest expense 8 - Interest paid 4 - 1 Other 2 - Liability component at 20 March 2010 172 - 1 Other relates to fair value movements and fees.
Undrawn borrowing facilities The Group maintains three committed revolving credit facilities for standby liquidity purposes including a new 50 million three-year bilateral facility entered into in May 2009.
In February 2010, the Group entered into a new five-year 50 million bilateral term loan.
At 20 March 2010, no advance had been made under the new bank loan.
Expiry of facility 400 million revolving credit facility February 2012 163 million revolving credit facility May 2011 50 million bilateral revolving credit facility May 2012 No amounts were drawn down on the facilities at 20 March 2010 2009: nil.
Obligations under finance leases Present Present value of value of Minimum Minimum minimum minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within 1 year 7 3 3 1 Within 2 to 5 years inclusive 25 12 13 1 After 5 years 177 177 46 47 209 192 62 49 Less: future finance charges 147 143 Present value of lease obligations 62 49 Disclosed as: Current 3 1 Non-current 59 48 62 49 Finance leases have effective interest rates of 4.30 per cent to 9.00 per cent 2009: 4.30 per cent to 8.50 per cent.
The average remaining lease term is 76 years 2009: 77 years.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Deferred taxation The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the financial year, prior to the offsetting of the balances within the same tax jurisdiction, are shown below.
Group Accelerated tax Fair value Other depreciation gains property Other Total m m m m m Deferred income tax liabilities At 22 March 2009 138 26 93 27 284 Charge credit to income statement 39 - 9 3 33 Charge to equity other comprehensive income - 10 - - 10 At 20 March 2010 177 36 84 30 327 At 23 March 2008 165 30 68 39 302 Credit charge to income statement 27 - 25 12 14 Credit to equity other comprehensive income - 4 - - 4 At 21 March 2009 138 26 93 27 284 Group Retirement benefit Share-based Capital Provisions obligations payment losses Total m m m m m Deferred i ncome tax assets At 22 March 2009 3 87 27 72 189 Credit to income statement - - 13 23 36 Credit charge to equity other comprehensive income - 31 1 - 30 At 20 March 2010 3 118 13 49 183 At 23 March 2008 11 129 31 68 19 Charge credit to income statement 8 37 4 4 45 Credit to equity other comprehensive income - 253 - - 253 At 21 March 2009 3 87 27 72 189 m Net deferred income tax liability At 20 March 2010 144 At 21 March 2009 95 72 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Deferred taxation continued Company Other property Total m m Deferred income tax liabilities At 22 March 2009 65 65 Charge to income statement 30 30 At 20 March 2010 35 35 At 23 March 2008 65 65 Charge to income statement - - At 21 March 2009 65 65 Company Fair value losses Capital losses Total m m m Deferred income tax assets At 22 March 2009 1 65 66 Charge to income statement - 30 30 At 20 March 2010 1 35 36 At 23 March 2008 1 65 66 Charge to income statement - - - At 21 March 2009 1 65 66 m Net deferred income tax asset At 20 March 2010 1 At 21 March 2009 1 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all income tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Provisions Group Group Group restructuring longCompany Company onerous and disposal service Group onerous disposal Company leases provisions awards total leases provision total m m m m m m m At 22 March 2009 37 32 7 76 4 24 28 Charge to income statement Additional provisions 19 1 - 20 - - - Unused amounts reversed 1 1 - 2 - 1 1 Utilisation of provision 8 9 - 17 1 1 2 Amortisation of discount 2 - - 2 - - - At 20 March 2010 49 23 7 79 3 22 25 At 23 March 2008 40 26 7 73 4 25 29 Charge to income statement Additional provisions 11 7 - 18 - - - Unused amounts reversed 8 - - 8 - - - Utilisation of provision 7 1 - 8 - 1 1 Amortisation of discount 1 - - 1 - - - At 21 March 2009 37 32 7 76 4 24 28 Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Disclosed as: Current 13 19 1 1 Non-current 66 57 24 27 79 76 25 28 The onerous lease provision covers residual lease commitments of up to an average of 32 years 2009: 30 years, after allowance for existing or anticipated sublet rental income.
The restructuring provisions were fully utilised in the financial year ended 20 March 2010.
The disposal provisions relate to indemnities arising from the disposal of subsidiaries, the timing of utilisation of which is uncertain.
Long-service awards are accrued over the period the service is provided by the employee.
74 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Called up share capital and share premium account 2010 2009 2010 2009 million million m m Group and Company Authorised share capital 4 4 Ordinary shares of 28 pence each 2009: 28 pence 2,450 2,450 700 700 7 7 Preference B shares of 35 pence each 2009: 35 pence 2,100 2,100 735 735 Called up share capital Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares 1,860 1,753 532 501 Share premium account Share premium 1,033 909 The movements in the called up share capital and share premium account are set out below: Ordinary Ordinary Share shares shares premium million m m At 22 March 2009 1,753 501 909 Issue of shares 78 22 113 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 29 9 11 At 20 March 2010 1,860 532 1,033 At 23 March 2008 1,747 499 896 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 6 2 13 At 21 March 2009 1,753 501 909 4 On 22 June 2009, J Sainsbury plc issued 78.1 million ordinary shares with a nominal value of 28 pence each at 3.10 per share via an equity 7 placing.
This resulted in an increase in ordinary share capital of 22 million and share premium of 113 million net of transaction costs.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Capital redemption and other reserves Group Group Group Group Group Capital Currency Acturial Group Cash flow Group Convertible Group redemption translation losses Available-forhedge Merger bond total other reserve reserve gains sale assets reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m m m m At 22 March 2009 680 1 223 33 - - - 191 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax - - 125 - - - - 125 Available-for-sale financial assets: fair value movements net of tax Group - - - 32 - - - 32 Joint ventures note 14 - - - 24 - - - 24 Cash flow hedges: effective portion of fair value movements net of tax Group - - - - 3 - - 3 Placing and open offer - - - - - 102 - 102 Transfer to retained earnings - - - - - 102 - 102 Convertible bond equity component - - - - - - 24 24 Amortisation of convertible bond equity - - - - - - 3 3 At 20 March 2010 680 1 348 89 3 - 21 242 At 23 March 2008 680 1 427 66 2 - - 494 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax - - 650 - - - - 650 Available-for-sale financial assets: fair value movements net of tax Group - - - 12 - - - 12 1 Joint ventures note 14 - - - 21 - - - 21 Cash flow hedges: effective portion of fair value movements net of tax Group - - - - 9 - - 9 1 Joint ventures note 14 - - - - 11 - - 11 1 At 21 March 2009 680 1 223 33 - - - 191 At 25 March 2007 670 1 37 107 - - - 143 B shares redemption 10 - - - - - - - Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax - - 390 - - - - 390 Available-for-sale financial assets: fair value movements net of tax Group - - - 31 - - - 31 1 Joint ventures note 14 - - - 10 - - - 10 Cash flow hedges: effective portion of fair value movements net of tax Group - - - - 2 - - 2 1 Joint ventures note 14 - - - - - - - - 1 At 22 March 2008 680 1 427 66 2 - - 494 1 For details of the reclassification of certain offsetting foreign exchange gains and losses, see note 2.
76 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Capital redemption and other reserves continued Company Capital Company Company Company Company redemption Available-forMerger Convertible Total other reserve sale assets reserve bond reserve reserves m m m m m At 22 March 2009 680 1 - - 1 Available-for-sale financial assets: fair value movements net of tax - 6 - - 6 Placing and open offer - - 102 - 102 Transfer to retained earnings - - 102 - 102 Convertible bond equity component - - - 24 24 Amortisation of convertible bond equity - - - 3 3 At 20 March 2010 680 5 - 21 26 At 23 March 2008 680 - - - - Available-for-sale financial assets: fair value movements net of tax - 1 - - 1 At 21 March 2009 680 1 - - 1 Capital redemption reserve represents the redemption of B shares.
Shareholders approved a 680 million return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting on 12 July 2004.
Shareholders owning 320,050,073 B shares elected to receive the initial dividend payment of 35 pence each and these shares were subsequently converted to deferred shares.
The remaining shares were redeemed at a later date for 35 pence each.
The final redemption date for B Shares was 18 July 2007 and all transactions relating to the B shares have now been completed.
Currency translation reserve represents the foreign exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations from their functional currency to the presentation currency of the parent.
Actuarial gains and losses reserve represents the actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the Group.
Available-for-sale assets reserve represents the fair value gains and losses on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group.
Cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges in the Group.
4 The merger reserve was created in June 2009, when J Sainsbury plc issued 78.1 million ordinary shares with a nominal value of 28 pence 7 each per share.
This resulted in an increase in ordinary share capital of 22 million, share premium of 113 million net of transaction costs and the creation of 102 million in the merger reserve.
The transfer to retained earnings resulted from the operation of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 with regard to the issue of shares by J Sainsbury plc in exchange for shares in J Sainsbury Jersey Finance Limited and the subsequent redemption of redeemable preference shares of that company for cash.
The convertible bond reserve represents the equity component of the 190 million convertible bond issued in July 2009.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Retained earnings Group Group Company Group Profit and Total retained Retained Own shares loss account earnings earnings m m m m At 22 March 2009 34 2,511 2,477 1,737 Profit for the year - 585 585 250 Dividends paid - 241 241 241 Share-based payment net of tax - 44 44 - Shares vested 12 - 12 - Allotted in respect of share option schemes - 19 19 42 Utilised in respect of share option schemes - - - 7 Amortisation of convertible bond equity - 3 3 3 Transfer from merger reserve - 102 102 102 At 20 March 2010 22 2,985 2,963 1,886 At 23 March 2008 79 2,445 2,366 1,697 Profit for the year - 289 289 165 Dividends paid - 218 218 218 Share-based payment - 40 40 - Shares vested 45 - 45 - Allotted in respect of share option schemes - 45 45 93 At 21 March 2009 34 2,511 2,477 1,737 Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trusts 4 The Group owned 6,162,927 2009: 9,650,780 of its ordinary shares of 28 pence nominal value each.
At 20 March 2010, the total nominal 7 value of the own shares was 2 million 2009: 3 million.
As at 20 March 2010 none of the own shares are held by an ESOP trust on behalf of certain Directors and senior employees under the Groups Performance Share Plan 2009: none.
All shares 2009: all shares are held by an ESOP trust for the Executive Share Plans.
The ESOP trusts waive the rights to the dividends receivable in respect of the shareholder under the above schemes.
The cost of the own shares is deducted from equity in the Group financial statements.
The market value of the own shares at 20 March 2010 was 21 million 2009: 30 million.
78 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Notes to the cash flow statements a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Operating profit loss 710 673 210 18 Adjustments for Depreciation expense 466 453 - 1 Amortisation expense 13 15 - - Profit on sale of properties 27 57 - 21 Foreign exchange differences 6 10 - - Share-based payments expense 42 40 - - 1 Retirement benefit obligations 85 75 - - Provision for diminution in value of investment 1 - 160 - Liquidation of subsidiaries - - 26 - Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 1,114 1,039 24 38 Changes in working capital Increase in inventories 13 8 - - Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 1 23 173 60 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 101 148 51 301 Increase decrease in provisions and other liabilities 3 4 3 - Cash generated from operations 1,206 1,206 251 203 1 The adjustment for retirement benefit obligations reflects the difference between the service charge of 49 million 2009: 53 million for the defined benefit schemes and the cash contributions of 134 million made by the Group to the defined benefit schemes 2009: 128 million.
b Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 837 627 670 460 Bank overdrafts note 20 3 28 1 8 834 599 669 452 c Non-cash transactions The principal non-cash transactions are the repayment of borrowings and proceeds from new borrowings of 110 million arising from the debt restructuring described in note 20, for which amounts were settled net by offset with the counterparty banks.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Analysis of net debt 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 24 7 Derivative financial instruments 20 31 44 38 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 837 627 Derivative financial instruments 43 59 880 686 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 3 28 Borrowings 67 125 Finance leases 3 1 Derivative financial instruments 41 56 114 210 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,298 2,129 Finance leases 59 48 Derivative financial instruments 2 8 2,359 2,185 Total net debt 1,549 1,671 Net debt incorporates the Groups borrowings including accrued interest, bank overdrafts, interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets, fair value of derivatives and obligations under finance leases, less cash and cash equivalents.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2010 2009 m m Net debt at beginning of the year 1,671 1,503 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 235 2 1 Increase in interest bearing available-for-sale assets 10 8 1 Net increase in borrowings 72 177 1 Net increase decrease in derivatives 23 6 Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 2 - Fair value movements 9 2 Other non-cash movements 21 5 Net debt at the end of the year 1,549 1,671 1 Excluding fair value movements.
80 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including liquidity, credit and market risk.
Funding and financial risk management are managed by a central treasury department in accordance with policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors.
The risk management policies are designed to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance by identifying the various exposures and setting appropriate risk limits and controls.
The Finance Committee of the Board of Directors has responsibility for approving specific financial transactions.
The Treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, regularly reviews risk positions and monitors performance.
The Group Audit Committee oversees management compliance with risk management policies and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Group Audit Committee is assisted by Group Internal Audit who review the Groups risk management controls and procedures on a regular basis.
The Group only uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures arising in respect of underlying business requirements and not for any speculative purpose.
Treasury operations in respect of Sainsburys Bank are managed separately through Lloyds Banking Group, the Groups joint venture partner.
Liquidity risk The Groups operational cash flow is largely stable and predictable, reflecting the low business risk profile of the food retail sector.
Cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist management in identifying future liquidity requirements.
The Groups liquidity policy requires committed funding is maintained to cover cash flow requirements over an 18-month time horizon.
The Group complies with this policy by structuring core debt with long-term maturities, pre-funding future cash flow and maintaining a portfolio of standby credit facilities.
The principal elements of the Groups core funding comprise two long-term loans of 1,100 million due 2018 and 850 million due 2031 secured over property assets held in two subsidiary companies.
In addition the Group has two unsecured bank loans totalling 150 million due 2015 and 190 million of convertible bonds due 2014 outstanding.
Short-term and seasonal funding is sourced from the wholesale inter-bank money market where interest is charged at various spreads above LIBOR.
For standby purposes the Group maintains two syndicated committed revolving credit facilities of 400 million due February 2012 and 163 million due May 2011 and a 50 million bilateral committed revolving credit facility due May 2012.
Interest on drawings under these facilities is charged at various margins over LIBOR.
There are nil drawings under the committed facilities as at 20 March 2010 2009: nil drawings.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows or an estimate in respect of floating interest rate liabilities.
Group Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years m m m m At 20 March 2010 Secured loans Secured loan due 2018 85 85 331 984 1 Secured loan due 2031 54 56 177 1,226 Unsecured loans Notional overdraft 3 - - - 2 Bank loan 3 3 51 - 2 Bank loans due 2015 7 7 23 156 Convertible bond due 2014 8 8 210 - 2 Loan notes 9 - - - Obligations under finance leases 7 7 18 177 Trade and other payables 2,463 - - - At 21 March 2009 Secured loans Secured loan due 2018 85 85 224 1,221 1 Secured loan due 2031 53 54 170 1,239 Unsecured loans Notional overdraft 28 - - - 2 Bank loan 35 - - - 2 Bank loans due 2015 13 12 37 175 2 Loan notes 8 2 - - Obligations under finance leases 3 3 9 177 Trade and other payables 2,487 - - - Company Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years m m m m At 20 March 2010 Notional overdraft 1 - - - 2 Bank loan 3 3 51 - 2 Bank loan due 2015 2 2 7 111 Convertible bond due 2014 8 8 210 - 2 Amounts due to Group entities 4,496 41 129 940 Other payables 14 - - - At 21 March 2009 Notional overdraft 8 - - - 2 Bank loan 35 - - - 2 Amounts due to Group entities 3,540 1,139 118 952 Other payables 10 - - - Assumptions: 1 Cash flows relating to debt linked to inflation rates have been calculated using a RPI of 3.7 per cent for the year ended March 2011 and 3 per cent for future years.
2 Cash flows relating to debt bearing a floating interest rate have been calculated using prevailing interest rates at 20 March 2010 and 21 March 2009.
82 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued The table below analyses the Groups net settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the net contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years m m m m At 20 March 2010 Commodity contracts Inflow 2 - - - Interest rate swaps in a hedging relationship 1 Inflow 4 4 8 9 Other interest rate swaps: 1 Inflow 2 2 7 3 At 21 March 2009 Commodity contracts Outflow 7 - - - Interest rate swaps in a hedging relationship 1 Inflow 2 2 7 11 Other interest rate swaps: 1 Inflow outflow 2 2 4 6 Assumption: 1 The swap rate which matches the remaining term of the interest rate swap at 20 March 2010 has been used to calculate the floating rate cash flows over the life of the interest rate swaps shown above 2009: 21 March 2009.
The Group holds commodity contracts at fair values prevailing at the reporting dates.
At 20 March 2010, 2 million relating to these financial instruments has been recognised in other comprehensive income 2009: 5 million.
The table below analyses the Groups gross settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years m m m m At 20 March 2010 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 245 32 - - Inflow 252 33 - - At 21 March 2009 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 120 22 - - Inflow 142 22 - - The Group holds foreign exchange forward contracts, for which the inflow figures in the table above have been calculated by translating the foreign currency forward commitments at spot exchange rates prevailing at the reporting dates.
At 20 March 2010, 7 million relating to these financial instruments has been recognised in other comprehensive income 2009: 17 million.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Credit risk The Groups exposures to credit risk arise from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities and trade receivables note 17.
The Group deposits surplus funds with approved banks on the wholesale inter-bank money markets or with money market funds as pooled investments.
Under the Groups credit policy investments are limited to counter parties with minimum credit ratings of A1 from Standard & Poors and P1 from Moodys Investors Service or, in the case of sterling liquidity funds, AAA from both rating agencies.
The table below analyses the Groups cash and cash equivalents by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash and cash in transit: Counterparty 2010 2009 Rating m m Financial institutions Money Market Funds AAAm Aaa 599 410 Financial institutions Money Market Deposits A1 P1 40 28 Financial institutions Money Market Deposits A1 P1 20 - During the year there were no breaches of deposit limits and management does not expect any losses from non-performance of deposit counterparties.
Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and commodity contracts are used by the Group to hedge interest rate, currency and fuel exposures.
The table below analyses the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets by credit exposure.
Counterparty Short term 2010 2009 rating m m Interest rate swaps A1 P1 1 - Interest rate swaps A1 P1 50 56 FX forward contracts A1 P1 4 4 FX forward contracts A1 P1 5 18 Commodity contracts A1 P1 1 - Commodity contracts A1 P1 2 - Market risk a Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk with respect to future inventory purchases denominated in currencies other than pound sterling, primarily euros and US dollars but also Hong Kong dollars, Polish zloty, Australian dollars and New Zealand dollars.
The Group also has limited exposure in respect of recognised foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Groups currency risk management policy limits the impact of movements in exchange rates on Group income by requiring anticipated foreign currency cash flows in US dollars and euros to be hedged.
The future cash flows, which may be either contracted or un-contracted, are hedged on a layered basis between 80 per cent and 20 per cent using forward contracts.
The Group has limited exposure to currency risk on balances held on foreign currency denominated bank accounts, which may arise due to short-term timing differences on maturing hedges and underlying supplier payments.
A 20 per cent change in the value of the US dollar versus sterling at the balance sheet date with all other variables held constant would have increased or decreased post-tax profit or loss for the year by 2 million 2009: 2 million, as a result of gains or losses on translation of US dollar cash balances and US dollar denominated trade payables and receivables.
A 20 per cent change in the value of euro versus sterling at the balance sheet date with all other variables held constant would have increased or decreased post-tax profit or loss for the year by 1 million 2009: 1 million, as a result of gains or losses on translation of euro cash balances and euro denominated trade payables and receivables.
Movements of this magnitude in the other currencies noted above would have an immaterial impact on both the income statement and equity.
b Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings and deposits.
Interest rate policy seeks to minimise the cost and volatility of the Groups interest expense by maintaining a diversified portfolio of fixed rate, floating rate and inflation-linked liabilities.
i Fair value sensitivity for fixed rate instruments The Group holds 1,290 million of fixed rate debt 2009: 1,130 million, of which 401 million 2009: 211 million has been swapped into floating rate debt using interest rate swaps.
The remaining 889 million 2009: 919 million portion of fixed rate debt is recorded at amortised cost and a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect the income statement.
For the year, the fair value movement in the interest rate swaps has resulted in a credit to the income statement of nil 2009: 35 million.
The fair value movement in the underlying fixed rate debt has resulted in a charge to the income statement of 2 million 2009: 35 million which represents the ineffectiveness on the hedging relationship.
84 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued ii Cash flow sensitivity for variable rate instruments The Group holds 745 million of floating rate borrowings 2009: 541 million, comprising 536 million of floating rate swaps 2009: 346 million and 209 million of floating rate debt 2009: 195 million.
An increase of 100 basis points in the floating rate at the balance sheet date would have decreased post-tax profit by 5 million 2009: 3 million and a decrease of 100 basis points in the floating rate at the balance sheet date would have increased post-tax profit by 3 million 2009: 3 million.
Where a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points would reflect a negative floating rate the assumed rate is nil.
The Group also holds 734 million of interest bearing assets 2009: 478 million.
An increase of 100 basis points in the floating rate at the balance sheet date would have increased post-tax profit by 5 million 2009: 3 million and a decrease of 100 basis points in the floating rate at the balance sheet date would have decreased post-tax profit by 3 million 2009: 3 million.
iii Cash flow sensitivity for inflation-linked variable instruments The Group holds 850 million of inflation-linked debt 2009: 872 million which is recorded at amortised cost.
An increase of 100 basis points in the RPI at the balance sheet date would have increased post-tax profit by 6 million and a decrease of 100 basis points in the RPI at the balance sheet date would have decreased post-tax profit by 1 million an increase or a decrease of 100 basis points in the RPI 2009: 6 million.
Where a decrease in RPI of 100 basis points would reflect a negative rate, the assumed rate is nil.
iv Fair value sensitivity for available-for-sale assets Included within available-for-sale financial assets is 126 million 2009: 90 million relating to the Groups beneficial interest in a property investment pool.
The net present value of the Groups interest in the various freehold reversions owned by the property investment pool has been derived by assuming a property growth rate of 3.1 cent per annum 2009: 2.8 per cent and a discount rate of ten per cent 2009: ten per cent, see note 15.
A change of 0.5 per cent in the assumed rate of property rental growth to 2.6 per cent and 3.6 per cent, holding other assumptions constant, would result in values for this asset of 116 million 2009: 81 million and 136 million 2009: 98 million respectively.
A change of one per cent in the discount rate to nine per cent and 11 per cent, holding other assumptions constant, would result in values of 143 million 2009: 103 million and 112 million 2009: 79 million respectively.
Commodity risk The Group is exposed to commodity price risk with respect to its own use consumption of electricity, gas and fuel.
The Groups Energy Price Risk Committee limits the impact of movements in commodity prices on Group income by requiring forecast purchases of power and fuel be hedged.
The Group uses financial derivatives to hedge fuel exposures on a layered basis using contracts for difference.
A 20 per cent change in the fair value of the commodity price at the balance sheet date would have increased or decreased the cash flow equity reserve by 3 million 2009: 2 million.
The Group hedges electricity and gas exposures with forward purchases under flexible purchasing arrangements with the relevant suppliers.
Capital risk management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital structure consistent with the size and nature of the Group.
The Board monitors a range of financial metrics including return on capital and gearing to measure the efficiency of the Groups capital structure, the returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Board has a policy to maintain the underlying earnings cover for the ordinary dividend at a range of between 1.5 and 1.75 times.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares in the market for the purpose of issuing shares under the Groups share option programmes.
Outside of this practice the Group does not have a defined share buy-back plan.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments Group Group Company Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Derivative assets Non-current Contract for difference fair value through profit or loss - 12 - 12 Interest rate swaps fair value hedge 19 19 19 19 Foreign exchange forward contract cash flow hedge 1 - - - 20 31 19 31 Current Commodity and foreign exchange forward contract cash flow hedge 11 22 - - Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 32 37 32 37 43 59 32 37 Derivative liabilities Current Commodity and foreign exchange forward contract cash flow hedge 1 7 - - Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 40 49 40 49 41 56 40 49 Non-current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss - 8 - - Commodity forward contract fair value through profit or loss 2 - - - 2 8 - - Foreign exchange forward contracts cash flow hedges At 20 March 2010, the Group held a portfolio of foreign exchange forward contracts with a fair value of 9 million 2009: 22 million to hedge its future foreign currency denominated trade purchases.
The Group had purchased 115 million 2009: 55 million and sold sterling at rates ranging from 1.10 to 1.18 2009: 0.78 to 0.94 with maturities from March 2010 to March 2011 2009: March 2009 to March 2010 and purchased US$273 million 2009: US$161 million and sold sterling at rates ranging from 1.45 to 1.70 2009: 1.40 to 2.00 with maturities from March 2010 to June 2011 2009: March 2009 to September 2010.
At 20 March 2010, an unrealised gain of 7 million 2009: gain of 17 million is included in equity in respect of the forward contracts.
This gain will be transferred to the income statement over the next 15 months.
During the year a credit to the profit or loss of 8 million was transferred from the cash flow hedge equity reserve and included in cost of sales 2009: credit of 31 million.
Commodity contracts cash flow hedges At 20 March 2010, the Group held a portfolio of commodity forward contracts with a fair value of 2 million 2009: 7 million to hedge its future own use fuel consumption over the next 12 months.
At 20 March 2010, an unrealised gain of 2 million 2009: loss of 5 million is included in equity in respect of these contracts.
This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next 12 months.
Interest rate swaps fair value hedge The Group holds a portfolio of 401 million of interest rate swaps 2009: 211 million to hedge a portion of the fixed rate secured loan due in 2018 and the 190 million convertible bond due 2014.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives fixed interest and pays floating rate interest at a fixed spread above three-month LIBOR.
The notional principal amount of the one of the interest rate swaps amortises from 211 million to 111 million from April 2016 to April 2018.
86 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments fair value through profit and loss At 20 March 2010, the Group held a portfolio of interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss which convert 256 million of the Groups floating rate obligations into fixed rates 2009: 256 million.
Under the terms of these swaps the Group pays fixed rates of interest and receives three-month LIBOR for periods expiring from 19 April 2018 to 19 April 2031.
Included in this portfolio is a 75 million swap under which the counterparty has a once only option to cancel the swap or double the notional principal value of the swap on 19 July 2010 and thereafter a recurring option to cancel the swap on quarterly dates through to August 2030.
The Group holds a portfolio of non-designated interest rate swaps which convert 391 million of fixed rate borrowings into floating rates 2009: 391 million.
Under the terms of the swap the Group receives fixed rates of interest and pays interest at various spreads above three-month LIBOR until 19 April 2018.
Interest rate risk Financial instruments where interest is re-priced at intervals of one year or less are classified as floating rate.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
Foreign currency risk The Group has net euro denominated trade creditors of 11 million 2009: 9 million and US dollar denominated trade creditors of 11 million 2009: 15 million.
Fair value Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements at other than fair values.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are based on prices that are available from the market on which the instruments are traded where available.
The fair values of all other financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair values of short-term deposits, receivables, overdrafts, payables and loans of a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values, and are excluded from the analysis below.
Group Company Carrying Group Carrying Company amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m 2010 Financial assets Amounts due from Group entities - - 1,080 1,170 Other receivables 55 55 55 55 Financial liabilities Amounts due to Group entities - - 821 881 1 Secured loans 1,988 2,208 - - 2 Convertible bond 172 175 172 175 Bank loans due 2015 146 161 103 103 Bank loan 50 50 50 50 Obligations under finance leases 59 59 - - 2009 Financial assets Amounts due from Group entities - - 1,005 1,110 Other receivables 55 55 55 55 Financial liabilities Amounts due to Group entities - - 2,037 2,087 1 Secured loans 2,047 2,224 - - Bank loans due 2015 162 191 - - Loan notes 10 10 - - Obligations under finance leases 48 48 - - 1 Includes 211 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2009: 211 million.
2 Includes 190 million accounted for as a fair value hedge.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are recognised subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Group 2010 2010 2010 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets - 24 - 24 Other financial assets - - 126 126 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets - 63 - 63 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities - 43 - 43 Company 2010 2010 2010 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets - 24 - 24 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets - 51 - 51 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities - 40 - 40 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: Other financial assets 2010 m Opening balance 90 Total gains or losses: In profit or loss - In other comprehensive income 36 Closing balance 126 88 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Financial assets and liabilities by category Set out below is the accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 20 March 2010 and 21 March 2009.
Group Fair value Derivatives Other Loans and Availablethrough profit used for financial receivables for-sale or loss hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 837 - - - - 837 Trade and other receivables 207 - - - - 207 Available-for-sale financial assets - 150 - - - 150 Trade and other payables - - - - 2,463 2,463 Current borrowings - - - - 73 73 Non-current borrowings - - - - 2,357 2,357 Derivative financial instruments 1 Cash flow hedges - - - 11 - 11 2 Interest rate swaps - - 8 19 - 11 Commodity contract - - 2 - - 2 1,044 150 10 30 4,893 3,679 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 627 - - - - 627 Trade and other receivables 187 - - - - 187 Available-for-sale financial assets - 97 - - - 97 Trade and other payables - - - - 2,490 2,490 Current borrowings - - - - 154 154 Non-current borrowings - - - - 2,177 2,177 Derivative financial instruments 1 Cash flow hedges - - - 15 - 15 2 Interest rate swaps - - 20 19 - 1 Contract for difference - - 12 - - 12 814 97 8 34 4,821 3,884 1 Cash flow hedges are deferred through equity.
2 Interest rate swaps used for hedging are at fair value through profit or loss.
Company Fair value Derivatives Other Loans and Availablethrough profit used for financial receivables for-sale or loss hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 670 - - - - 670 Trade and other receivables 1,681 - - - - 1,681 Available-for-sale financial assets - 24 - - - 24 Trade and other payables - - - - 5,281 5,281 Current borrowings - - - - 3 3 Non-current borrowings - - - - 323 323 Derivative financial instruments 1 Interest rate swaps - - 8 19 - 11 2,351 24 8 19 5,607 3,221 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 460 - - - - 460 Trade and other receivables 1,430 - - - - 1,430 Trade and other payables - - - - 5,526 5,526 Current borrowings - - - - 43 43 Derivative financial instruments 1 Interest rate swaps - - 12 19 - 7 Contract for difference - - 12 - - 12 1,890 - - 19 5,569 3,660 1 Interest rate swaps used for hedging are at fair value through profit or loss.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Financial instruments income, expense, gains and losses Set out below are the accounting classifications of income, expense, gains and losses experienced on financial instruments in the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010 and 21 March 2009.
2010 2009 m m At fair value through profit or loss, held for trading Net gains and losses 36 15 Loans and receivables Net gains and losses 1 5 Interest income 4 9 Available for sale Net gain transferred on sale - - Other financial liabilities Net gains and losses 30 14 Interest expense 110 137 30 Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations relate to two funded defined benefit schemes, the J Sainsbury Pension and Death Benefit Scheme and the J Sainsbury Executive Pension Scheme and an unfunded pension liability relating to senior employees.
The defined benefit schemes were closed to new employees on 31 January 2002.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the Groups assets.
The defined benefit schemes were subject to a triennial valuation carried out by Towers Watson, the schemes independent actuaries, at March 2009 on the projected unit basis.
The results of this valuation are expected to be finalised by June 2010.
The retirement benefit obligations at 20 March 2010 have been calculated, where appropriate, on a basis consistent with this valuation.
The unfunded pension liability is unwound when each employee reaches retirement and takes their pension from the Group payroll or is crystallised in the event of an employee leaving or retiring and choosing to take the provision as a one-off cash payment.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Present value of funded obligations 4,649 3,610 Fair value of plan assets 4,237 3,310 412 300 Present value of unfunded obligations 9 9 Retirement benefit obligations 421 309 Deferred income tax asset 118 87 Net retirement benefit obligations 303 222 The retirement benefit obligations and the associated deferred income tax balance are shown within different line items on the face of the balance sheet.
90 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued a Income statement The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current service cost funded schemes 48 50 Current service cost unfunded scheme - 1 Past service cost 1 2 Included in employee costs note 7 49 53 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 230 249 Expected return on plan assets 206 273 Total included in finance expense income note 6 24 24 Total income statement expense 73 29 Of the expense recognised in operating profit, 44 million 2009: 48 million is included in cost of sales and 5 million 2009: 5 million is included in administrative expenses.
The actual return on pension scheme assets net of expenses was a gain of 921 million 2009: a loss of 876 million.
b Other comprehensive income The amounts recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Net actuarial losses recognised during the year 173 903 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised 482 309 c Valuations The movements in the funded retirement benefit obligations are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Beginning of year 3,610 3,668 Current service cost 48 50 Past service cost 1 2 Interest cost 230 249 Contributions by plan participants 7 7 Actuarial losses gains 888 246 Benefits paid 135 120 End of year 4,649 3,610 The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Beginning of year 3,310 4,171 Expected return on plan assets 206 273 Actuarial gains losses 715 1,149 Contributions by employer 134 128 Contributions by plan participants 7 7 Benefits paid 135 120 End of year 4,237 3,310 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2010 2009 % % Equities 42 39 Bonds 49 50 Property 2 3 Other 7 8 100 100 d Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2010 2009 % % Discount rate 5.8 6.5 Inflation rate 3.4 2.8 Future salary increases 3.4 2.8 Future pension increases 2.2-3.4 2.0-2.8 The discount rate is based on the annualised yield on an AA-rated sterling corporate bond index adjusted for the difference in term between the index and the schemes liabilities.
The expected return on assets has been derived as the weighted average of the expected returns from each of the main asset classes.
The expected return for each asset class reflects a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward-looking view of the financial markets as suggested by the yield available and the views of investment organisations.
2010 2010 2009 2009 Fair Expected Fair Expected value return value return m % m % Equities 1,787 8.0 1,279 8.0 Bonds 2,074 4.9 1,662 5.1 Property 101 7.0 105 7.0 Other 275 4.3-7.0 264 4.0-7.0 4,237 6.4 3,310 6.3 The combined life expectancy for both the schemes operated at the balance sheet date for a pensioner at normal retirement age now 65 years for men and women is as follows: 2010 2009 years years Male pensioner 22.2 21.7 Female pensioner 23.8 23.2 The base mortality tables were derived by projecting forward the latest standard mortality tables PA00 tables in line with the base 1992 series improvements up to 2006, and then in line with medium cohort improvements from 2006 onwards, subject to a minimum rate of improvement from 2009 onwards of one per cent per annum.
92 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued e Sensitivities An increase of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 426 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 479 million.
An increase of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 404 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 287 million.
An increase of one year to the life expectancy would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 97 million.
f Experienced gains and losses The history of experience adjustments on the plans for the current and previous financial years is as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Present value of retirement benefit obligations 4,658 3,619 3,676 4,401 4,368 Fair value of plan assets 4,237 3,310 4,171 4,298 3,710 Retirement benefit obligations assets 421 309 495 103 658 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 116 171 79 236 27 Experience gain loss on plan assets 715 1,149 380 89 428 The expected contributions to defined benefit schemes for the next financial year beginning 21 March 2010 are 103 million 2009: 93 million.
31 Share-based payments The Group recognised 42 million 2009: 40 million of employee costs note 7 related to share-based payment transactions made during the financial year.
Of these, 1 million 2009: nil were cash-settled.
National insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payments transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
At 20 March 2010, the carrying amount of national insurance contributions payable was 5 million 2009: 13 million of which 1 million 2009: 3 million was in respect of vested grants.
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes as set out below: a Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE The Group operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees with more than three months continuous service.
This is an approved HMRC Scheme and was established in 1980.
Under the SAYE scheme, participants remaining in the Groups employment at the end of the three-year or five-year savings period are entitled to use their savings to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price.
Employees leaving for certain reasons are able to use their savings to purchase shares within six months of their leaving.
At 20 March 2010, UK employees held 20,980 five-year savings contracts 2009: 21,416 in respect of options over 21.0 million shares 2009: 22.0 million and 33,407 three-year savings contracts 2009: 29,281 in respect of options over 20.4 million shares 2009: 18.0 million.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted 2010 average 2009 average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price million pence million pence Outstanding at beginning of year 40.0 262 35.9 278 Granted 11.5 273 15.7 224 Forfeited 4.3 269 5.5 292 Exercised 5.1 235 6.1 233 Expired 0.7 236 - - Outstanding at end of year 41.4 268 40.0 262 Exercisable at end of year 3.2 300 2.4 235 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 332 pence 2009: 293 pence.
Details of options at 20 March 2010 are set out below: Options Options outstanding outstanding Exercise price 2010 2009 Date of grant Date of expiry pence million million 17 December 2003 5 year period 31 August 2009 241 - 0.9 15 December 2004 5 year period 31 August 2010 217 0.8 3.7 15 December 2005 3 year period 31 August 2009 231 - 1.5 15 December 2005 5 year period 31 August 2011 231 4.1 4.5 15 December 2006 3 year period 31 August 2010 328 2.4 3.2 15 December 2006 5 year period 31 August 2012 328 2.8 3.1 20 December 2007 3 year period 31 August 2011 331 3.6 4.3 20 December 2007 5 year period 31 August 2013 331 2.9 3.3 17 December 2008 3 year period 31 August 2012 224 7.8 9.1 17 December 2008 5 year period 31 August 2014 224 5.7 6.4 10 December 2009 3 year period 31 August 2013 273 6.7 - 10 December 2009 5 year period 31 August 2015 273 4.6 - 41.4 40.0 Options granted during the year were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2010 2009 Share price at grant date pence 341 280 Exercise price pence 273 224 Expected volatility 3 year period % 38.3 35.7 3 year period % 31.3 30.4 Option life 3 year period years 3.2 3.2 5 year period years 5.2 5.2 Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield % 3.7 3.6 Risk-free interest rate 3 y ear period % 3.7 3.8 5 year period % 4.6 4.0 Fair value per option 3 year period pence 107 86 5 year period pence 107 85 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
b Colleague Share Option Plan CSOP The Colleague Share Option Plan operates under the rules of the HMRC Approved Discretionary Share Option Scheme.
Under the CSOP, participants are granted options to purchase shares of the Company at a stated exercise price.
The exercise of options is conditional upon participants remaining in the employment of the Group for a three-year period after date of grant.
Colleagues leaving employment for certain reasons have six months from their leaving date to exercise their options.
At 20 March 2010, a total of 1,253 UK employees 2009: 10,034 participated in the plan and held options over 0.4 million shares 2009: 3.2 million.
Options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of the grant of option.
It is intended that there will be no further options granted under this plan.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted 2010 average 2009 average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price million pence million pence Outstanding at beginning of year 3.2 363 3.4 363 Forfeited 0.1 352 0.2 356 Expired 2.7 378 - - Outstanding at end of year 0.4 272 3.2 363 Exercisable at end of year 0.4 272 3.2 363 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 325 pence 2009: 372 pence.
94 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued Details of options at 20 March 2010 are set out below: Options Options outstanding outstanding Exercise price 2010 2009 Date of grant Date of expiry pence million million 2 August 1999 1 August 2009 378 - 2.7 2 June 2000 1 June 2010 272 0.4 0.5 0.4 3.2 c Executive Share Option Plan ESOP Under the Executive Share Option Plan, participants were granted options to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price.
The maximum annual option award was two times basic salary and the grants were agreed by the Remuneration Committee according to the assessed performance and potential of participants.
The exercise of options is conditional upon a performance target based on the growth in the Companys underlying earnings per share EPS relative to inflation over a three-year period.
EPS is measured against a fixed starting point over the performance period beginning with the year in which the option was granted.
To the extent that the condition is not satisfied in full after three years, it will be retested on a fixed-point basis over four and then five financial years.
To the extent the condition is not met after five financial years, the option will lapse.
Once the options vest, participants remaining in the Groups employment or leaving for certain reasons, are entitled to exercise the options between vesting date normally at the end of the three-year performance period and the option expiry date, which is ten years from date of grant.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted 2010 average 2009 average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price million pence million pence Outstanding at beginning of year 2.4 387 4.1 411 Forfeited 0.6 321 0.4 356 Expired 0.3 378 1.3 482 Outstanding at end of year 1.5 397 2.4 387 Exercisable at end of year 1.5 397 2.2 395 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 336 pence 2009: 321 pence.
Details of options at 20 March 2010 are set out below: Options Options outstanding outstanding Exercise price 2010 2009 Date of grant Date of expiry pence million million 2 August 1999 1 August 2009 378 - 0.3 2 June 2000 1 June 2010 272 0.2 0.2 7 June 2001 6 June 2011 427 0.6 0.8 26 July 2001 25 July 2011 407 0.7 0.9 20 May 2004 19 May 2014 275 - 0.2 1.5 2.4 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued d All-Employee Share Ownership Plan i In June 2003, under the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan, free shares were awarded to UK employees with more than 12 months continuous service.
The free shares are being held in a trust on behalf of participants and will be forfeited if participants cease to remain in the Groups employment for a period of three years.
Shares are released to participants within the first three years for certain reasons.
After the three-year period, the shares continue to be held by the trust for a further holding period of two years, unless they are released to participants upon cessation of employment with the Group.
A reconciliation of shares held in the trust is shown below: Number Number of shares of shares 2010 2009 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 0.4 1.4 Released to participants - 1.0 Outstanding at end of year 0.4 0.4 ii From 18 September 2008, under the Sainsburys share purchase plan, all employees were offered the opportunity to receive one free matching share for every four shares purchased through the Sainsburys share purchase plan.
Under this scheme, 229,431 matching shares have been awarded, of which 212,115 are outstanding at 20 March 2010 2009: 95,258 matching shares.
Options to acquire the award of shares were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2010 2009 Share price at grant date pence 326 292 Exercise price pence - - Expected volatility % 37.9 26.8 Option life years 3.0 3.0 Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield % 3.8 2.6 Risk-free interest rate % 3.6 5.7 Fair value per option pence 302 271 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
e J Sainsbury plc Share Plan 2005 Under the J Sainsbury plc Share Plan 2005, shares were awarded to participants on the conditional basis that the performance targets were achieved within the four-year performance period, from the financial year beginning 27 March 2005 until the financial year ended 21 March 2009.
The levels of awards were scaled according to seniority and there was an opportunity for Executive Directors and eligible Operating Board members to make a personal investment of up to 50 per cent of salary in the plan.
The awards vested if stretching sales and earnings per share targets are achieved.
The relevant performance multiplier, which is on a sliding scale up to a maximum of five times, was to be calculated and applied to the core award of shares, as well as the personal investment shares i. e. shares acquired by Executive Directors and eligible Operating Board members.
Further, there was an opportunity for partial vesting of up to half the award, if the accelerated performance targets have been met at the end of year three i. e. financial year ending March 2008.
No awards would vest unless threshold levels of growth in both sales and EPS are achieved.
Once performance targets were achieved, options were granted to participants remaining in the Groups employment or leaving for certain reasons to acquire the shares awarded to them, at nil cost.
The options expired a year after the end of the four-year performance period.
Dividends accrued on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
In order to participate in the plan, participants agreed to surrender options granted to them under the Companys Executive Share Option Plan in 2002, 2003 and 2004.
In March 2008, the three-year accelerated performance targets were met and 50 per cent of achieved awards became exercisable.
In May 2008 a total number of 15.5 million shares were granted to employees as a result of achieving the performance target, of which 12.4 million options were exercised during the year ended 21 March 2009.
In May 2009, the performance targets were met and the remaining 50 per cent of achieved awards became exercisable, so a further 16.4 million shares were granted.
During the year, 19.3 million options were exercised.
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised was 325 pence 2009: 332 pence.
96 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of the number of shares is shown below: Number Number of shares of shares 2010 2009 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 2.9 - Granted 16.4 15.5 Exercised 19.3 12.4 Expired - 0.2 Outstanding at end of year - 2.9 A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: Number Number of shares of shares 2010 2009 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 6.0 6.1 Forfeited - 0.1 Released to participants 6.0 - Outstanding at end of year - 6.0 Details of shares conditionally allocated at 20 March 2010 are set out below: Shares Shares conditionally conditionally allocated allocated 2010 2009 Date of conditional award million million 13 July 2005 - 6.0 f Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006, shares are conditionally awarded to the top 1,000 managers in the Company, from the Chief Executive to the supermarket store managers.
The core awards are calculated as a percentage of the participants salaries and scaled according to grades.
The awards will vest if the threshold levels of two co-dependent performance conditions Return on Capital Employed ROCE and growth in cash flow per share, are achieved over the three-year performance period.
The core award can grow by up to four times, dependent on the level of performance.
Straight-line vesting will apply if performance falls between two points.
Performance will be measured at the end of the three-year performance period.
If the required level of performance has been reached, the awards vest and 50 per cent of the award will be released.
Subject to participants remaining in employment for a further year, the balance will then be released no later than on the fourth anniversary of the date of award.
Options granted to acquire the award of shares will expire two years from the vesting date.
Dividends will accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
To achieve the maximum multiplier of four, the following criteria are required to be met.
Percentage increase to achieve maximum multiplier Cash flow per share Return on capital employed Date of conditional award % % 13 July 2006 18 14 20 June 2007 18 14 28 May 2008 15 15 24 June 2009 15 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: Number Number of shares of shares 2010 2009 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 7.4 4.5 Conditionally allocated 3.5 3.3 Forfeited 0.3 0.4 Released to participants 2.1 - Outstanding at end of year 8.5 7.4 Details of shares conditionally awarded at 20 March 2010 are set out below: Shares Shares conditionally conditionally allocated allocated 2010 2009 Date of conditional award million million 13 July 2006 0.1 2.3 20 June 2007 1.8 1.9 28 May 2008 3.1 3.2 24 June 2009 3.5 - 8.5 7.4 Options to acquire the award of shares were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2010 2009 Share price at grant date pence 315 346 Exercise price pence - - Expected volatility % 48.1 38.8 Option life years 4.2 4.2 Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield % - - Risk-free interest rate % 3.7 4.9 Fair value per option pence 315 346 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
In March 2009, the three-year performance targets were met achieving a multiplier of 3.7.
During the year, a total number of 8.3 million shares were granted to employees as a result of achieving the performance target and 7.9 million options were exercised.
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised was 330 pence.
98 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued g Deferred Annual Bonus Plan The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan applies to the top levels of management including Executive Directors and currently comprises around 40 participants in total.
The first deferral took place in June 2007, in respect of the bonus awards for the financial year ended 24 March 2007.
The second deferral took place in June 2008, in respect of the bonus awards for the financial year ended 22 March 2008.
The third and final deferral took place in June 2009, in respect of bonus awards for the financial year ended 21 March 2009.
The Plan measures the Companys TSR performance over a three-year period against a bespoke UK and European retail comparator group comprising: Tesco, Morrisons, DSG International, Kingfisher, Home Retail Group, Marks & Spencer, Next, Ahold, Carrefour, Casino, Delhaize and Metro.
Alliance Boots was removed from the comparator group following its fide-listing.
Up to two matched shares may be awarded for each share deferred depending on the extent to which the TSR measure is achieved.
No shares are awarded for below median performance, and the full match will only apply where the Company achieves first place within the comparator group.
At median position the match will be 0.5 shares for each deferred bonus share and the share match will be pro-rated at every position between median and first place.
To the extent that the performance condition is met at the end of the three-year performance period, the matched shares will be added to the deferred bonus shares.
The deferred bonus shares and half of the matched shares can be accessed immediately, while the remainder will be held over for a further year.
Dividends or their equivalents will accrue on shares that vest.
A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: Number Number of shares of shares 2010 2009 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 1.1 0.6 Granted 0.5 0.5 Lapsed 0.1 - Outstanding at end of year 1.5 1.1 Details of shares allocated at 20 March 2010 are set out below: Shares Shares conditionally conditionally allocated allocated 2010 2009 million million 20 June 2007 0.6 0.6 20 June 2008 0.5 0.5 24 June 2009 0.4 - 1.5 1.1 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Related party transactions Group a Key management personnel The key management personnel of the Group comprises members of the J Sainsbury plc Board of Directors and the Operating Board.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Short-term employee benefits 17 11 Post-employment employee benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 8 10 26 22 Details of transactions, in the normal course of business, with the key management personnel are provided below.
The transactions occurred with Sainsburys Bank plc.
For this purpose, key management personnel include Group key management personnel and members of their close family.
Saving Credit card deposit balances accounts Number Credit Number Saving of key card of key deposit management balances management accounts personnel m personnel m At 22 March 2009 5 - 7 1 1 Amounts advanced received 6 - 3 1 Interest earned 1 - 9 - Amounts withdrawn 6 - 5 1 At 20 March 2010 5 - 6 1 At 23 March 2008 4 - 2 1 1 Amounts advanced received 6 - 5 1 Interest earned 2 - 7 - Amounts withdrawn 6 - 3 1 At 21 March 2009 5 - 7 1 1 Includes existing balances of new appointments.
b Joint ventures Transactions with joint ventures For the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010, the Group entered into various transactions with joint ventures as set out below.
2010 2009 m m Sales of inventories 3 3 Management services provided 14 17 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 3 Dividend income received 2 - Sale of assets - 34 Management services received - 1 Rental expenses paid 72 67 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures 2010 2009 m m Receivables Other receivables 2 2 Loans due from joint ventures 1 Floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 25 25 2 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 30 30 Other 1 - Payables Loans due to joint ventures 48 48 1 The undated subordinated loan capital shall be repaid on such date as the Financial Services Authority shall agree in writing for such repayment and in any event not less than five years and one day from the dates of draw down.
In the event of a winding-up of Sainsburys Bank plc, the loan is subordinated to ordinary unsecured liabilities.
Interest is payable three months in arrears at LIBOR plus a margin of 1.0 per cent per annum for the duration of the loan.
2 No repayment of dated subordinated debt prior to its stated maturity may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
Interest is payable three months in arrears at LIBOR plus a margin of 0.6 per cent per annum for the duration of the loan.
100 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Related party transactions continued Company a Key management personnel The key management personnel of the Company comprises members of the J Sainsbury plc Board of Directors.
The Directors do not receive any remuneration from the Company 2009: nil as their emoluments are borne by subsidiaries.
The Company did not have any transactions with the Directors during the financial year 2009: nil.
b Subsidiaries The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis.
Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on these loans and advances.
The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the financial year.
Transactions with subsidiaries 2010 2009 m m Loans and advances given to, and dividend income received from subsidiaries Loans and advances given 310 402 Loans and advances repaid by subsidiaries 103 423 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 126 119 Dividend income received 268 250 Loans and advances received from subsidiaries Loans and advances received 350 944 Loans and advances repaid 377 689 Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 69 201 Year-end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries 2010 2009 m m Receivables Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 1,625 1,374 Payables Loans and advances due to subsidiaries 5,267 5,516 c Joint ventures Transactions with joint ventures For the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010, the Company entered into transactions with joint ventures as set out below.
2010 2009 m m Services and loans provided to joint ventures Management services received - 1 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 3 Dividend income received 2 - Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures 2010 2009 m m Receivables Loans due from joint ventures 1 Floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 25 25 2 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 30 30 Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 1 The undated subordinated loan capital shall be repaid on such date as the Financial Services Authority shall agree in writing for such repayment and in any event not less than five years and one day from the dates of draw down.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, depots and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Land and Land and Other Other buildings buildings leases leases 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases payable as follows: Within 1 year 372 348 49 48 Within 2 to 5 years inclusive 1,449 1,358 74 77 After 5 years 5,343 5,253 4 - 7,164 6,959 127 125 The Group sublets certain leased properties and the total future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 20 March 2010 are 267 million 2009: 264 million.
The Company does not have any operating lease commitments 2009: nil.
34 Capital commitments The Group has entered into contracts totalling 216 million 2009: 327 million for future capital expenditure not provided for in the financial statements.
The Company does not have any capital commitments 2009: nil.
35 Financial commitments The financial commitments of Sainsburys Bank plc, a 50 per cent joint venture of the Group, are set out below.
The amounts noted below indicate the volume of business outstanding at the balance sheet date in respect of the off-balance sheet financial instruments that commit Sainsburys Bank plc to extend credit to customers.
2010 2009 m m Commitments to extend credit 32.7 25.5 102 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the financial statements
