Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the applicable law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on prepare the Company and Group financial statements in accordance pages 24 and 25 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group: and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the position of the Group, together with a description of the consistently: principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Tim Fallowfield have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Company Secretary and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company and the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 43
