Glossary Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to Easter adjustment To adjust for the MTL Multiple traffic lights Nutritional help inspire school children to take more timing of Easter: 2009 2010 included a Good labels which provide effective at-a-glance exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched Friday trading week and an Easter Sunday information customers need to make in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, trading week.
2008 09 included an Easter healthier choices when shopping.
Around primary and secondary schools as well Sunday trading week.
5,000 Sainsburys products carry our Wheel as Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
co. uk activekids ESOP trusts Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
AGM Annual General Meeting This year the AGM will be held on Wednesday 14 July Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an Organic Organic farming prohibits the 2010 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference independent consumer label that use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, growth Centre, Broad Sanctuary, London SW1P 3EE guarantees a fair deal for marginalised regulators and additives in livestock feed.
workers and small scale farmers in The International Federation of Organic developing countries.
Producers receive Agriculture Movements IFOAM accredits B shares Preference B shares issued on a minimum price that covers the cost of national organic certifying bodies.
12 July 2004 as part of the Return of Capital production and an extra premium that scheme in 2004 05. is invested in the local community.
Pipeline Sites which the Group has www.
uk an interest in developing in the future.
basics Sainsburys entry level sub-brand range of products.
Fair value The amount for which an asset ROCE Return on Capital Employed.
could be exchanged, or a liability settled, BGTY Be Good to Yourself between knowledgeable, willing parties in RPI Retail Price Index.
Sainsburys healthier alternative sub-brand an arms length transaction.
Products are either: Sainsburys SO organic Sainsburys those with less than three per cent fat or freefrom Sainsburys range of products organic sub-brand range of products.
those with less calories, salt and saturated guaranteed to be wheat, gluten or dairy free.
TSR Total Shareholder Return The FSA Food Standards Agency.
growth in value of a shareholding over a CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed www.
uk specified period, assuming that dividends Securities.
are reinvested to purchase additional units FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing of the stock.
company, runs the FTSE4Good index series to measure the performance of companies Ttd Taste the difference Sainsburys CC Competition Commission An that meet CR standards, and to facilitate premium sub-brand range of products.
independent public body which conducts investment in those companies.
in-depth inquiries into mergers, markets and www.
com ftse4good Try something new today The marketing the major regulated industries.
The CC has campaign in support of Making Sainsburys undertaken an investigation into the supply GDAs Guideline Daily Amounts.
of groceries by retailers in the UK.
uk Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
TU Sainsburys own label clothing range.
CR Corporate responsibility The need Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
TU home Sainsburys sub-brand to act responsibly in managing the impact homeware range of products.
on a range of stakeholders: customers, IFRIC International Financial Reporting colleagues, investors, suppliers, the Interpretations Committee.
Underlying basic earnings per share community and the environment.
Profit after tax from continuing operations IFRSs International Financial Reporting attributable to equity holders before any Different by design Sainsburys general Standard s. profit or loss on the sale of properties, merchandise brand which mirrors the investment property fair value movements, premium Taste the difference food range.
IGD Institute of Grocery Distribution.
impairment of goodwill, financing fair www.
com value movements, IAS 19 pension financing Different values Campaign launched element and one-off items that are material in 2007 to emphasise the higher quality and infrequent in nature, divided by the Income statement Formerly known as the specifications and great value of Sainsburys profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
weighted average number of ordinary own brand products.
shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the ESOP trusts, which are ISA Individual Savings Account.
Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax treated as cancelled.
from continuing operations attributable to JV Joint venture A business jointly equity shareholders divided by total value Underlying profit before tax Profit owned by two or more parties.
of dividends declared during the year.
before tax from continuing operations before any profit or loss on the sale of Like-for-like sales The measure of year DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan properties, investment property fair value on year same store sales growth.
Allows shareholders to reinvest their cash movements, impairment of goodwill, dividend in shares of the Company through financing fair value movements, IAS 19 LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan.
a specially arranged share dealing service.
pension financing element and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
Mtdd Make the difference days EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, Launched in April 2007 to raise awareness depreciation, amortisation and rent.
Underlying operating profit loss and action around different social, Underlying profit before tax from continuing environmental and ethical issues and EPS Earnings per share Earnings operations before underlying net finance working partnership with customers to attributable to ordinary shareholders costs and underlying share of post-tax profit make a sustained difference.
divided by the weighted average number or loss from joint ventures.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 107 Notes 108 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate objectives The Companys strategy centres around five areas of focus.
These areas are underpinned by Sainsburys strong heritage and brand which consistently sets it apart from major competitors.
Over 19 million customer transactions on average every 1 Great food at fair prices week, a million more than last year Over To build on and stretch the lead in food.
By sharing A 16.1 per cent market share in the UK, up by 0.2 per cent customers passion for healthy, safe, fresh and tasty on last year food, Sainsburys will continue to innovate and provide 19m Won more Quality Food Awards than any other retailer this leadership in delivering quality products at fair prices, year, including seven wins from 15 categories for Value products customer transactions on average every sourced with integrity.
week, a million more than last year Worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade goods by value Complementary non-food grew three times faster than 2 Accelerating the growth of complementary food sales and the TU clothing range continued to be the star performer non-food ranges and services To continue to accelerate the development of non-food Our TU childrenswear range is now the seventh largest 3x in the UK market by volume ranges and services following the principles of quality Complementary non-food grew three and value and to provide a broader shopping experience Doubled our clothing warehouse capacity to manage the times faster than food sales increasing demand for our clothing lines for customers.
Sainsburys Bank delivered strong growth, with operating profit increasing to 19 million 51 Sainsburys convenience stores opened during 2009 10 3 Reaching more customers through Total convenience estate of 335 stores with plans to open Online up additional channels 75 to 100 more in 2010 11 To extend the reach of Sainsburys brand by Groceries online business growing rapidly with sales up opening new convenience stores and developing just under 20 per cent, within reach of nearly 90 per cent 20% the online operations.
of UK households Online sales growing rapidly with Non-food online launched in July 2009, with over 8,000 turnover up over 20 per cent products now available nationally 38 new supermarkets opened, including our largest store 4 Growing supermarket space in Northern Ireland at 70,000 sq ft Added over To expand the Companys store estate, actively seeking 13 supermarkets extended and developing a pipeline of new stores and extending Added over 1.1 million gross sq ft of new space in total the largely under-developed store portfolio to provide 1.1m gross sq ft including convenience, an increase of 6.8 per cent an even better food offer while also growing space for of new space in total, including 38 new On track to meet our target of increasing gross space by non-food ranges.
supermarkets and 13 extensions 15 per cent over the two years to March 2011 Market value of our freehold property portfolio increased 5 Active property management to 9.8 billion The ownership of property assets provides operational Up 2.3 billion on last year, including 0.7 billion of property flexibility and the exploitation of potential development value created from investment and development activity opportunities will maximise value.
294 wholly-owned freehold and long leasehold stores, 9.8bn Designed by sasdesign.
The FSC Logo identifies products which of which 85 per cent have development potential contain wood from well managed forests Market value of freehold property This Report is printed on Revive Pure White Offset, a recycled certified in accordance with the rules of paper containing 100% post consumer collected waste.
FSC Trademark Two property joint ventures containing 43 supermarkets 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. The paper is FSC accredited as a recycled grade.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system ISO 14001 and is also Carbon Neutral.
XXX-XXX-000 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 We have made fundamental changes at Sainsburys in recent years which have Jerseys with crispy bacon Tasty salad transformed our business.
We have stayed true to our heritage.
Our passion for great food at fair prices and our robust, ethical approach remain central to our Try boiling halved Taste the Difference Jersey Royal potatoes for continued success.
Meanwhile, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a pan and fry 75g of Taste the Difference oak smoked back bacon, rind removed and chopped into pieces, for 34 minutes World leaders in Fairtrade until crispy.
Add 1 bunch of spring onions, sliced and 1 clove of garlic, We are the worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade goods by peeled and sliced.
Saut until the garlic is soft and the spring onion value.
One in every four pounds spent on Fairtrade in the Taste the Difference UK is spent at a Sainsburys store.
Remove from the heat and stir in the cooked, drained Jersey Royals potatoes.
Serve on a bed of wild rocket for a tasty dish thats great alongside meat or fish.
Supermarket of the year Sainsburys was named Supermarket of the Year at the 2009 Retail Industry Awards, due to our ability to adapt to changing customer needs over the past year.
Taste the Difference For more meal ideas, visit our Try Team oak smoked back at www.
co. uk trynation We are Green to the Core bacon rashers We were awarded an industry leading A rating in the Green to the Core?
survey by Consumer Focus for our customer engagement cals fat on green issues, our sustainable farming and fish policies and 175 5.9g the high proportion of sustainable products available.
total sat fat sugars 1.8g 1.5g salt 0.4g Largest UK retailer of Freedom Food Spring onions Traffic light labelling values for one serving based on: We are the largest retailer of Freedom Food both by the amount 125g Taste the Difference Jersey Royal potatoes, 3g olive oil, of products we sell and the range we offer.
Freedom Food is the 19g Taste the Difference oak smoked back bacon, 20g spring onion, 1g garlic, 18g rocket, using the nutrition information RSPCAs farm assurance and food labelling scheme.
Leader in HR and people Garlic management We won the CBI Peoples Organisation award for our broad-ranging HR and people-management excellence.
Leader in quality We won more Quality Food Awards than any other retailer this year, including 7 wins from 15 categories for Value products.
Wild rocket Official partner of the London 2012 Paralympic Games We have been appointed as the first ever Paralympic-only Want to know more about our year?
sponsor, becoming a Tier One Partner of the London 2012 Paralympic Games.
co. uk illustratedreview An illustrated review of Sainsburys during the 2009 10 financial year is also online at our corporate website or through the Annual Report and direct website address above.
Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc, 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT.
