ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation Hedging The financial statements of the Company have been The Company applies assumptions on future transactions prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the which would alter upon future borrowings critical in the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 effectiveness calculations of its cash flow hedges.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The If these transactions were not to occur, it may result financial statements have been prepared under the in all or part of the cumulative gain or loss which had historical cost convention, as modified by available-forbeen originally reported in equity, being transferred to the sale financial assets and financial assets and liabilities income statement.
including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Taxation Significant judgement is required to determine the The Companys financial statements are presented in provision for taxes, as the tax treatment for some sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest thousand transactions cannot be fully determined until a formal pounds 000, except where otherwise indicated.
The resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
accounting policies which follow set out those policies Tax benefits are not recognised until it is probable that which apply in preparing the financial statements for the benefit will be obtained.
the year ended 25 July 2010: they have been consistently applied.
Segmental reporting The Company reports in one business segment that of Financial risk factors are disclosed in the Finance review public houses and one geographical segment being the included in section 1, as well as within the discussion of United Kingdom.
Given the immaterial size of the risks and uncertainties facing the company, included in Companys hotel business, this has not been separately section 2. disclosed as a business segment.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Exceptional items The preparation of financial statements in conformity The Company presents, on the face of the income with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting statement, those material items of income and expense estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its which, because of the nature and expected infrequency judgement in the process of applying the Companys of the event giving rise to them, merit separate accounting policies.
The estimates and judgements are presentation to allow shareholders to better understand based on historical experience and other factors, the elements of financial performance in the year, so as including expectations of future events which are to facilitate comparison with previous periods and to believed to be reasonable and constitute managements better assess trends in financial performance.
best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience could differ from those Property, plant and equipment estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed judgement or complexity, or where assumptions and cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in estimates are significant to the financial statements, value.
Cost of assets also include directly attributable costs are disclosed below.
in bringing the asset into a working condition.
Insurance provision Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis, over the A provision for public liability insurance is made for the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: estimated exposure of the Company to claims.
This has been based on experience of historical claims.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated The Company determines whether property, plant and residual values over periods of 50 years.
equipment is impaired by estimating a units value in use and fair value less costs to sell, to determine the Short leasehold buildings are depreciated over the recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGUs.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined using external Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated over and internal estimates of the value of the Companys 3 to 10 years.
The value in use is calculated using the estimated earnings and cash flows derived by management Unopened properties are not depreciated until such time estimates and applying a suitable discount rate to these as economic benefits are derived.
As required by IAS 16, property, plant and equipments Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash expected useful life and residual values are flows, the discount rate applied or the estimate in fair reviewed annually.
value less costs to sell could give rise to an additional impairment provision.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 39 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for reviewed for impairment, if events or changes in impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in the value of property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement.
Lease premiums Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and which are accounted for as operating leases represent equipment reflect the difference between the net selling prepaid lease payments.
These are amortised on a price and the carrying amount at the date of disposal and straight-line basis, over the lease term.
Lease premiums are recognised in the income statement.
are disclosed as other non-current assets.
Impairment Assets held for sale At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether Where the value of an asset will be recovered through a there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset is any such indication exists, or when annual impairment classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are valued testing for an asset is required, the Company makes an at the lower of book value and fair value, less any costs estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset or CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value in use: this is Inventories determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net not generate cash inflows which are largely independent realisable value.
The cost of finished goods includes of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Cost is calculated on the basis of carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable first in, first out, with net realisable value being the amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written estimated selling price, less any costs of disposal.
down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Provisions present value using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects Provisions are recognised when the Company has a current market assessments of the time value of money present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources continuing operations are recognised in the income will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable statement in those expense categories consistent with estimate can be made of the obligations amount.
the function of the impaired asset.
Revenue recognition An assessment is made at each reporting date about Revenue is the value of goods and services sold to third whether there is any indication that previously recognised parties as part of the Companys trading activities, after impairment losses may no longer exist or may have deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the rewards of ownership are transferred.
Revenue represents estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amounts derived principally from the sale of goods drink amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
and food sales: recognised at the point at which the If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is goods are provided and the rendering of services.
increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased Machine revenue is recognised after deducting amount cannot exceed the carrying amount which would sales-based taxes.
All costs in relation to machine sales have been determined, net of depreciation, had no are included in cost of sales.
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income Leases statement.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge Leases where the Company assumes substantially all of is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are basis, over its remaining useful life.
capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present value of future lease payments.
The corresponding liability Intangible assets is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated payable.
Lease payments are apportioned between amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
finance charges and reduction of the lease payable, so as to obtain a constant rate of interest on the remaining Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged as an straight-line basis over their expected useful life, expense to the income statement.
as follows: Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the risks Computer software 3 to 10 years and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as 40 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES operating leases.
Rental payments in respect of operating Financial instruments leases are charged against operating profit, on a straightFinancial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date line basis, over the period of the lease.
on which the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument giving rise to the asset The Company also has contingent rentals payable based or liability.
These are charged to operating profit at the higher of minimum contractual obligations under the Financial assets agreements or based as a percentage of turnover.
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and loans Lease incentives and receivables.
The classification depends on the Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
expense to the break clause.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Borrowing costs Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is period in which they are incurred unless the requirements classified in this category, if acquired principally for the under IAS 23 for the capitalisation of borrowing costs purpose of selling in the short term.
relating to assets are met.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of Income taxes the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the category are presented in the income statement within amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the fair value gain loss on financial derivatives in the period taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which are in which they arise.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
b Loans and receivables Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets differences arising between the tax bases of assets and with fixed or determinable payments which are not liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial quoted in an active market.
They are included in current statements, with the following exceptions: assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as nonWhere the temporary difference arises from an asset or current assets.
Loans and receivables are classified as liability in a transaction which, at the time of the other receivables on the balance sheet.
transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Other receivables Other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the fixed or determinable payments which are not quoted in extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be an active market.
available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried-forward tax credits or tax losses can Other receivables are recognised and carried at original be utilised.
invoice amount, less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad an undiscounted basis at the tax rates which are expected debts are written off, when identified.
to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or Cash and cash equivalents substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity, if it deposits with an original maturity of three months or relates to items which are credited or charged to equity.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term income statement.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
Free cash flow The calculation of free cash flow is based on the net cash Financial liabilities generated by business activities after funding interest, The Company classifies its financial liabilities in the corporation tax, all other reinvestment in current pubs at following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and the start of the period and the purchase of own shares other financial liabilities.
The classification depends on the under the employee share-based plan.
purpose for which the financial liabilities were acquired.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 41 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the financial liabilities held for trading.
A financial liability is non-financial asset or liability.
classified in this category, if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial liabilities If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, with a designated hedge may also be categorised as amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires They are included in current liabilities, except for maturities or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
roll-over or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity b Other financial liabilities until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to Other financial liabilities are measured at fair value on the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of initial recognition and subsequently measured at a non-financial asset or liability, as above.
If the related amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to the income statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at cost Fair value hedges and subsequently at amortised cost using the effectiveFor fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged interest method.
item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair Bank loans and loan notes value, and gains and losses from both are taken to the Interest-bearing bank loans and loan notes are recorded income statement within fair value gain loss on financial initially at fair value of consideration received net of direct derivatives.
When an unrecognised firm commitment is issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently recorded at designated as a hedged item, this gives rise to an asset or amortised cost, with any difference between the amount liability in the balance sheet, representing the cumulative initially recorded and the redemption value recognised in change in the fair value of the firm commitment the income statement over the period of the bank loans, attributable to the hedged risk.
The Company discontinues fair value hedge accounting, if Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or liabilities, unless the company has an unconditional right exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months accounting or the Company revokes the designation.
after the balance sheet date.
Share capital Derivative financial instruments and Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs hedging activities directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options Derivative financial instruments used by the Company are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at the proceeds.
Foreign currencies Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception of Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are the hedge, there is formal designation and recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the date documentation of the hedging relationship and it meets of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities are the Companys risk-management objective strategy for translated at the year-end exchange rates, with the undertaking the hedge and is expected to be highly resulting exchange differences taken to the income effective.
The Company designates certain derivatives as statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
one of the following: Retirement benefits Interest-rate swaps Contributions to personal pension schemes are Interest-rate swaps are used to reduce exposure to recognised in the income statement in the period in variability in short term interest rates.
All contributions are in respect of a defined contribution scheme.
For interest-rate swaps, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in Dividends equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at income statement within fair value gain loss on financial each period end, are not recognised in the financial derivatives.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to statements until they are paid in the case of the interim the income statement when the hedged transaction dividend or approved by shareholders at the annual affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or general meeting in the case of the final dividend.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a 42 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES Changes in net debt New standards and interpretations effective in the Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash current year: movements of the year, including movements in derivative financial instruments, of finance leases, borrowings, cash IFRS 1 revised First-time adoption: and cash equivalents.
This revised standard does not contain any technical changes, as it merely improves the structure which had Share-based charges become complex, owing to the numerous amendments The Company has an employee share incentive plan in recent years.
The adoption of the amendment had no which awards shares to qualifying employees: there is also impact on the Companys results or financial position.
a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to directors and senior managers, subject to specific IFRS 8: Operating segments: performance criteria.
This standard has had no impact on the Company, as it operates only in a single segment that of public houses The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is and single geography United Kingdom : this also forms measured by reference to the fair value at the date at the basis on which the business is managed.
which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the dates on which Annual improvements to IFRSs 2008: the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
This standard improves current standards and amends 20 In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken others as well as certain basis of conclusions and of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions guidance.
The improvements include changes in linked to the price of the shares of the Company.
presentation, recognition and measurement, plus in terminology and editorial.
No expense is recognised for awards which do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: conditional on a market condition, which are treated as Disclosures on fair value hierarchy: vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, by level, using a fair value measurement hierarchy.
As the representing the extent to which the vesting period has change in accounting policy results in additional expired, being managements best estimate of the disclosures only, there is no impact on earnings per share.
achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments which will ultimately Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payments, on vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market Vesting conditions and cancellations: condition, be treated as vesting as described previously.
The amended standard changes the definition of vesting The movement in cumulative expense since the previous conditions and prescribes the accounting treatment of an balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, award which is effectively cancelled, owing to non-vesting with a corresponding entry in equity.
The adoption of the amendment had no impact on the Companys results or Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as financial position.
if it had vested on the date of cancellation, with any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements: being treated as an expense immediately.
Any The revised standard introduces the statement of compensation paid, up to the fair value of the award at comprehensive income which presents all items of the cancellation or settlement date, is deducted from recognised income and expense in either one single equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an statement or two linked statements.
The Company has expense in the income statement.
elected to present two statements and to retain the current names of the primary statements, with the The Company has taken advantage of the transitional exception of the Statement of recognised gains & losses provision of IFRS 1, in respect of equity-settled awards, so which has been renamed to become Statement of as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards comprehensive income.
granted after 7 November 2002 which had not vested before 1 January 2005.
IAS 23 revised Borrowing costs: The revised statement requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs, when such costs relate to an asset which necessarily takes a substantial amount of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
The adoption of the revised standard had no impact on the Companys results or financial position.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 43 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Standards, amendments and interpretations Annual improvements 2009: effective in the current year, but not relevant to This is a collection of amendments to 12 standards as the Company: part of the IASB programme of annual improvements.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition IFRS 9 Financial instruments, on Classification and measurement on Eligible hedged items and measurement: This is the first part of a new standard on classification IFRS 3 revised Business combinations and measurement of financial assets which will replace IAS 39.
IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements Annual improvements 2010: This set of amendments includes changes to six standards Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39, regarding and one IFRIC and is based on the exposure draft issued embedded derivatives in August 2009.
Amendment to IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, equity instruments: on the Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly This interpretation clarifies the accounting when an entity controlled entity or associate renegotiates the terms of its debt, with the result that the liability is extinguished through the debtor issuing its own Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: equity instruments to the creditor.
Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, on Puttable financial instruments and Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum obligations arising on liquidation funding requirement: This amendment will have a limited impact, as it applies IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers only to those companies which are required to make minimum funding contributions to a defined-benefit IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners pension plan.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation The impact of the above standards and interpretations are not expected to have a significant impact on the IFRIC 15 Agreements for construction of real estates Companys results or financial position.
The accounting policies outlined above are an integral Standards and interpretations which are not yet part of the financial statements.
effective and have not been early adopted by the Company: IAS 24 revised Related-party disclosures: This amendment removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and other governmentrelated entities and clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation on classification or rights issues: The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues rights, options or warrants which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Before the amendment, such rights issues were accounted for as derivative liabilities.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payments on group cash-settled transactions: These amendments provide a clear basis to determine the classification of share-based payment awards, in both consolidated and separate financial statements.
