NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This information is important and requires necessary or expedient in relation to fractional your immediate attention.
entitlements or any legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you any regulatory body or stock exchange: should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser for a period expiring unless previously revoked, varied authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act or renewed on the date which is 15 months from the 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your date of the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end shares in J D Wetherspoon plc, please forward this of the next annual general meeting of the Company, document and the accompanying documents to the but the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, or agreement which would or might require Relevant for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Securities to be allotted after this authority expires and the directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
of J D Wetherspoon plc the Company will be held at The Crosse Keys, 9 Gracechurch Street, London, 8 THAT: EC3V 0DR on Thursday 4 November 2010 at 10am subject to the passing of resolution 7 above and in place for the following purposes: of all existing powers, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Act Ordinary business to allot equity securities within the meaning of section To resolve as ordinary resolutions: 560 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 7 as if section 561 1 of the Act 1 To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and did not apply to such allotment, provided that this power the auditors and the audited accounts of the Company shall expire on the date which is 15 months from the date for the year ended 25 July 2010. of the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
This 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: report for the year ended 25 July 2010. i in connection with an offer of equity securities 3 To re-elect Tim Martin as a director.
including, without limitation, under a rights issue, open offer or similar arrangement, save that, in the case of an 4 To re-elect Keith Down as a director.
allotment pursuant to the authority conferred by paragraph B of Resolution 7, such offer shall be by way 5 To re-elect John Herring as a director.
of rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as 6 To re-appoint  LLP as the may be practicable to their existing holdings of ordinary auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors shares, but subject to such exclusions or other to fix their remuneration.
arrangements as the directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any Special business legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body resolutions, in the case of the resolution numbered 7 as or stock exchange: and an ordinary resolution and, in the case of the resolutions numbered 8, 9 and 10, as special resolutions.
ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above up to an aggregate nominal amount of 139,125, but 7 THAT: the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or in place of all existing authorities, the directors be agreement which would or might require equity securities generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to to be allotted after this power expires and the directors section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or to exercise all the powers of the Company: agreement as if this power had not expired.
A to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section in the Company Relevant Securities, up to a maximum 560 2 b of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this aggregate nominal amount of 918,226: and further resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 7 were omitted.
B to allot Relevant Securities comprising equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to 9 THAT: an aggregate nominal amount of 918,226 in connection the Company be and is hereby authorised, pursuant to with an offer by way of a rights issue in favour of holders section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases as of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in defined by section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their in the capital of the Company, on such terms and in such existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such manner as the directors of the Company shall determine, exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem subject to the following conditions: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 71 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING i the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be Notes: purchased is 20,854,868: 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual ii the price at which ordinary shares may be purchased general meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies shall not exceed 105% of the average of the middleto attend, speak and vote, instead of him or her, provided market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five attached to a different share or shares held by that business days preceding the date of purchase and shall member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
not be less than the nominal value, from time to time, of an ordinary share, in both cases exclusive of expenses: 2 A form of proxy is enclosed which members are invited to complete and return in the envelope provided.
iii this authority unless previously revoked, varied or Completion and return of the form of proxy, in renewed will expire at the earlier of 15 months from the accordance with the instructions on it, will not prevent date of passing of this resolution and the conclusion of such members from attending and voting at the annual the next annual general meeting of the Company, except general meeting in person, should they so wish.
that the Company may, before such authority expires, enter into a contract of purchase under which such 3 To be valid for the annual general meeting, the form of purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if after the expiry of the authority.
any under which it is executed or a notarised copy of such authority must be deposited at the offices of the 10 THAT: Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services general meetings other than any annual general plc, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, meeting of the Company may be called on not less than BS99 7NH or at the following electronic address 14 clear days notice.
com not later than 10am on 2 November 2010, being 48 hours before the time By order of the board appointed for holding the annual general meeting.
4 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person Keith Down nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy Company Secretary information rights a Nominated Person may, under an 10 September 2010 agreement between him or her and the member by whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be Registered office: appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person Wetherspoon House has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to Central Park exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, Reeds Crescent have a right to give instructions to the member as to the Watford exercise of voting rights.
WD24 4QL 5 The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1, 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those notes can be exercised only by members of the Company.
6 Any corporation which is a member may appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
7 Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a Web site a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit which is to be laid before the annual general meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such Web site publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement 72 J D WETHERSPOON PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING on a Web site, under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the Web site.
The business which may be dealt with at the annual general meeting includes any statement which the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a Web site.
8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found on the Companys Web site: www.
co. uk 9 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, but no such answers need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b answers have already been given on a Web site in the form of an answer to a question or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that any such questions be answered.
10 There are available for inspection at Macfarlanes LLP, 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and there will be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting from at least 15 minutes beforehand and until the conclusion of the annual general meeting, copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment with the Company.
11 Only those members registered in the register of members of the Company as at 10am on 2 November 2010 or, in the case of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the annual general meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
12 You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of annual general meeting for communicating with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
J D Wetherspoon plc Wetherspoon House, Central Park Reeds Crescent, Watford, WD24 4QL 01923 477777 www.
co. uk Designed by WLG Design Limited Printed by Banner Managed Communication English language advice by www.
