118 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of As special business JKX Oil & Gas plc the Company will be held at the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Institute of Directors, 116-123 Pall Mall, London resolutions, which will be proposed as special SW1Y 5ED on 7th June 2011 at 11.00am for the resolutions: following purposes: 11.
That the Company be and is hereby generally authorised pursuant to Section 701 of the Act to As ordinary business make market purchases within the meaning of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid ordinary resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary shares in the capital of the Company upon and resolutions: subject to the following conditions but otherwise 1.
To receive the accounts of the Company, the unconditionally: Directors Report and the Auditors Report thereon a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary for the year ended 31st December 2010. shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for 17,207,047: the year ended 31st December 2010. b the maximum price exclusive of expenses 3.
To re-appoint Sir Ian Prosser, who has been which may be paid for each such ordinary share appointed since the last annual general meeting of is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the the Company and whose biographical details are average of the middle market quotations for an included at page 50 of the 2010 Annual Report and ordinary share as derived from the London Accounts, as a director of the Company.
Stock Exchange's Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on 4.
To re-elect Lord Oxford formally known as which such ordinary share is contracted to be Viscount Asquith, who has served on the board of purchased and the minimum price exclusive of directors of the Company for more than nine years expenses which may be paid for such ordinary and whose biographical details are included at page share is the nominal value of such ordinary 51 of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, as a share at the time of such purchase: and director of the Company.
c unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, 5.
To re-elect Nigel Moore, who retires by rotation and the authority conferred by this resolution shall whose biographical details are included at page 51 expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, as a months after the passing of this resolution and director of the Company.
at the conclusion of the next annual general 6.
To re-elect Martin Miller, who retires by rotation meeting of the Company after the date on which and whose biographical details are included at page this resolution is passed, provided that the 50 of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, as a Company may, before the expiry of the authority director of the Company.
granted by this resolution, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this 7.
To re-elect Peter Dixon, who retires by rotation and authority which will or may be completed or whose biographical details are included at page 51 executed wholly or partly after the expiry of of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, as a such authority and may make a purchase of director of the Company.
ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
That the directors be and they are hereby auditors of the Company to hold office from the empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Act to conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of allot equity securities within the meaning of the next general meeting of the Company at which Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the accounts of the Company are laid before the authority to allot such securities passed at the last members.
annual general meeting or by way of a sale of 9.
To authorise the directors to determine the treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did remuneration of the auditors.
not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 10.
To declare the dividend recommended by the directors of the Company.
a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or offering in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 119 Notes held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may 1.
Only those members registered on the Companys register of consider necessary or expedient to deal with members at: treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record a 11.00 am on 5th June 2011: or, dates, statutory restrictions, legal or practical b if this meeting is adjourned, at 11.00 am on the day two problems under or resulting from the days prior to the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to application of the laws of any territory or the attend and vote at the meeting.
requirements of any recognised regulatory body 2.
Information regarding the meeting, including the or stock exchange in any territory: and information required by section 311A of the Act, is available b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subfrom www.
paragraph a above of equity securities up to 3.
If you wish to attend the meeting in person, it will be held at an aggregate nominal value of 860,352: the Institute of Directors, 116123 Pall Mall, London and shall expire unless previously renewed, SW1Y 5ED on 7th June 2011 at 11.00 am.
Registration will open at 10.30 am.
Please bring your admission card, varied or revoked by the Company in general enclosed with this AGM notice, with you and on arrival hand meeting on the earlier of the date falling 15 it to one of the Companys officials.
months after the passing of this resolution and at the conclusion of the Companys next annual 4.
If you are a member of the Company at the time set out in general meeting after the passing of this note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the resolution save that the Company may, before meeting and you should have received a Form of Proxy with the expiry of this power, make an offer or this notice of meeting.
You can only appoint a proxy using the agreement which would or might require equity procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the Form securities to be allotted after such expiry and of Proxy.
the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if 5.
If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information the power conferred hereby had not expired.
rights, you do not have a right to appoint any proxies under This power applies in relation to a sale of shares the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the which is an allotment of equity securities by Form of Proxy.
Please read the section relating to virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the Nominated Persons below.
first paragraph of this resolution the words 6.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but pursuant to the authority to allot such must attend the meeting to represent you.
Details of how to securities passed at the last annual general appoint the Chairman of the meeting or another person as meeting were omitted.
your proxy using the Form of Proxy are set out in the notes to the Form of Proxy.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your 13.
That a general meeting, other than an annual behalf at the meeting you will need to appoint your own general meeting, may be called on not less than choice of proxy not the Chairman and give your instructions 14 clear days notice.
The notes to the Form of Proxy explain how to direct your proxy how to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, By order of the Board Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West B J Burrows Sussex, BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time Company Secretary fixed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or JKX Oil & Gas plc voting at the meeting if they wish.
As an alternative to completing a hardcopy Form of Proxy, you can appoint a proxy ies electronically by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number as printed on your Form of Proxy.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
To be valid your proxy appointment s and instructions should reach Equiniti no later than 11.00 am on 5th June 2011.
120 Notice of Annual General Meeting 9.
As at 2.00pm on 19th April 2011, the Companys issued share inspection at the registered office of the Company during capital comprised 172,070,477 ordinary shares of 10p each.
normal business hours on each business day until the Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general conclusion of the AGM and will also be available at the place meeting of the Company and, therefore, excluding 402,771 of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting until ordinary shares held in Treasury, the total number of voting its conclusion.
rights in the Company as at 2.00pm on 19th April 2011 is 13.
In accordance with section 311A of the Act, the contents of 171,667,706. this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares The website referred to in note 2 will include information on in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting the number of shares and voting rights.
rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members' statements, members' resolutions or members' matters of 10.
Under section 319A of the Act, the Company must answer any business received by the Company after the date of this question you ask relating to the business being dealt with at notice will be available on the Company's website the meeting unless: www.
a answering the question would interfere unduly with the 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of this notice of meeting or any related documents including confidential information: the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any b the answer has already been given on a website in the purposes other than those expressly stated.
form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights Nominated Person : a You may have a right under an agreement between you and the member of the Company who has nominated you to have information rights Relevant Member to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
b If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
c Your main point of contact in terms of your investment in the Company remains the Relevant Member or, perhaps, your custodian or broker and you should continue to contact them and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to your personal details and your interest in the Company including any administrative matters.
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from you.
Copies of the directors service contracts and the terms of engagement for Non-Executive directors, together with the register of directors share interests, are available for JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Advisors Glossary of terms Secretary 2P reserves Proved plus probable B J Burrows Mcf Thousand cubic feet Bcf Billion cubic feet Registered office 6 Cavendish Square cfpd Cubic feet per day London W1G 0PD MMcfd Million cubic feet per day Registered in England Mbbl Thousand barrels Number: 3050645 MMbbl Million barrels Auditors bcpd Barrel of condensate per day  LLP, bpd Barrel per day 1 Embankment Place bopd Barrel of oil per day London WC2N 6RH boe Barrel of oil equivalent Registrars Mboe Thousand barrels of oil equivalent Equiniti MMboe Million barrels of oil equivalent Aspect Hose boepd Barrel of oil equivalent per day Spencer Road Lancing sq.
km Square kilometre West Sussex BN99 6DA $ United States Dollars LIBOR London InterBank Offered Rate Principal bankers Bank of Scotland plc US United States The Mound Hryvna The lawful currency of Ukraine Edinburgh EH1 1YZ Roubles The lawful currency of Russia Stockbrokers Conversion factors 6,000 standard cubic feet Brewin Dolphin Investment of gas 1 boe Banking, 48 St Vincent Street Glasgow G2 5TS Oriel Securities Limited 125 Wood Street London EC2V 7AN Financial advisors Hawkpoint Partners Limited 41 Lothbury London EC2R 7AE We welcome visits to our website Solicitors www.
co. uk Herbert Smith LLP Exchange House Designed and produced by db&co Primrose Street www.
co. uk, in association with Robson Dowry and London EC2A 2HS RPD Consulting.
Board photography by Peter Thompson SNR Denton UK LLP Satellite images by Planetery Visions Ltd One Fleet Place Printed in the UK by The Midas Press Ltd London EC4M 7WS The report is printed on Amadeus 50 Recycled Silk which is produced with 50% recycled bre from both pre and post-consumer This is an important document, if sources, together with 50% virgin bre from sustainable forests you are in any doubt as to what independently certied according to the rules of the Forest action to take you should consult an Stewardship Council.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free appropriate independent advisor ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with ISO 14001 such as an accountant or a lawyer.
JKX Oil & Gas plc 6 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PD 44 0 20 7323 4464
