JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 69 69 70 Directors responsibilities statement 71 Independent Auditors Report GROUP ACCOUNTS 72 Consolidated income statement 72 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 73 Consolidated balance sheet 74 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 75 Consolidated cash flow statement 76 Notes to the accounts 70 Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors in office at the date of this report have Annual Report and the group financial statements in each confirmed that: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit Company law requires the directors to prepare information of which the companys auditors are financial statements for each financial year.
Under unaware: and that law the directors have prepared the group he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken financial statements in accordance with International as a director to make himself aware of any relevant Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by audit information and to establish that the companys the European Union.
Under company law the directors auditors are aware of that information.
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the board make judgements and accounting estimates that are B J Burrows reasonable and prudent: Company Secretary 19th April 2011 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 71 Independent Auditors Report to the members of JKX Oil & Gas plc We have audited the group financial statements of JKX Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Oil & Gas plc for the year ended 31st December 2010 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, In our opinion the information given in the Directors the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Report for the financial year for which the group the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash the group financial statements.
flow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Matters on which we are required to report by preparation is applicable law and International exception Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration As explained more fully in the Directors specified by law are not made: or Responsibilities Statement set out on page 70, the we have not received all the information and directors are responsible for the preparation of the explanations we require for our audit: group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: audit and express an opinion on the group financial the directors statement, set out on page 59, in statements in accordance with applicable law and relation to going concern: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for our review: and for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Board on directors remuneration.
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom Other matter this report is shown or into whose hands it may come We have reported separately on the parent company save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in financial statements of JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year writing.
ended 31st December 2010 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Scope of the audit of the financial statements as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Mark King Senior Statutory Auditor sufficient to give reasonable assurance that for and on behalf of the financial statements are free from material  LLP misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors includes an assessment of: whether the accounting London policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances 19th April 2011. and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Notes: accounting estimates made by the directors: and the a The maintenance and integrity of the JKX Oil & Gas plc overall presentation of the financial statements.
website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of Opinion on financial statements these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no In our opinion the group financial statements: responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on give a true and fair view of the state of the groups the website.
affairs as at 31st December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from have been properly prepared in accordance with legislation in other jurisdictions.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
