84 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued In determining the actual bonus payment, the Committee Long term incentive Plan LtiP for 2010 takes into consideration such factors as improvements in The LTIP was approved and adopted by the Board in procurement, outsourcing, maintenance, mine planning, September 2007 and approved by shareholders in May 2010.
IT support and training net of any currency movements, The LTIP is a discretionary long-term incentive plan and safety performance and culture, and the achievement on provides for the grant of nil cost options to executive time and on budget of the various project milestones of Directors and selected senior executives.
The Committee the Groups major organic growth projects.
reviews the quantum of awards made each year to ensure that it is in line with the market.
Whilst the maximum annual The bonus earned by David Munro in 2010 has been set award is 250% of salary, it is the Committees policy to only at 140% of salary 2009: 120% of salary.
This recognises his grant awards of 200% of salary to Oleg Novachuk and Eduard contribution to the streamlining of the management structure Ogay, with lower award levels being applied to other senior in Kazakhstan and to the development of the major organic executives.
However, when making awards, it will consider growth projects Aktogay and Bozshakol, and that he does wider factors such as Company performance in determining not benefit from any equity-based incentives.
The actual whether to grant at this level.
No LTIP awards were made bonus payment received by him is shown in the table below.
to Vladimir Kim due to his substantial shareholding in the Annual bonus plan for 2011 Company, or David Munro, as he was unable to commit to As a result of this years review of annual bonus arrangements, carrying out his duties for the Company in Kazakhstan for the Committee has decided to make certain amendments.
To reflect the importance of his continuing role as Chief The number of shares that vest is dependent on Kazakhmys Executive, from 2011 the maximum bonus potential of Total Shareholder Return TSR performance compared to a Oleg Novachuk will be increased to the market median of comparator group of UK and international mining companies.
This provides him with a performance-based If Kazakhmys TSR is ranked median or above, an award will remuneration package similar in level and content to those vest as follows: of other comparable CEOs.
To encourage share ownership on the part of the most TSR ranking of Kazakhmys Vesting percentage senior managers below Board level including Matthew Hird, Upper quartile ranking 100% Chief Financial Officer and Sergei Diachenko, Chief Operating Between median and upper Straight-line vesting between Officer they will be eligible to receive a maximum bonus quartile ranking 30% and 100% based on potential of 150% of salary with an on-target bonus potential of ranking plus interpolation 75% of salary, one-third of which will be deferred and invested between rankings in the Companys shares.
Provided they remain in employment, the shares will be released after two years.
Median ranking 30% The other elements of the annual bonus plan will remain Below median ranking 0% unchanged, with operational performance, financial performance, strategic development and shareholder return continuing to be targets, but with each element representing an Following a review of performance metrics at the beginning equal proportion of the maximum bonus potential.
The awards of 2011, the Committee continues to believe that TSR remains will, however, be subject to a safety override, ensuring that they an appropriate performance target as it endorses consistency will be scaled back, as they have been this year, in the absence in the remuneration policy and provides a clear alignment of of an improvement in the Companys safety performance.
Of this salary, 666,054 was paid by Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and the balance was paid by the Company.
An adjustment is made to his salary each year to ensure that his aggregate salary for the year equates to his salary denominated in UK pounds sterling as a result of exchange rate differences.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85 of risk management as it, through share price, reflects both In the event of one or more constituents undergoing underlying financial performance and the markets assessment a take-over, merger, dissolution, variation in capital or of the quality and sustainability of those earnings.
any other event that will materially affect calculation of a ranking, the Committee shall determine how this should The Committee obtains independent external advice to assess be reflected in the ranking calculation.
whether the Company has met the TSR performance condition at the end of the relevant period and to confirm that the In the event of a change of control, awards will normally companies which comprise the comparator group and the vest on a pro-rata basis by reference to the length of time measurement of the Companys performance are both in since the award was granted, and only if the performance accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Under the performance conditions can effectively be regarded as having been condition, TSR is measured as the percentage increase in a satisfied at that time, although the Committee may decide return index for Kazakhmys and each comparator company not to pro-rate an award if it is inappropriate to do so between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The companies are then ranked according to their TSR.
If During 2010, the Long Term Incentive Plan awards none of Kazakhmys is ranked at or above the median of the comparator which were held by executive Directors which were due to group then a proportion of the award is eligible to vest.
vest in December 2010 lapsed in full upon failing to achieve the required TSR target and the same outcome is expected TSR Performance Vesting Schedule to apply to awards that are due to vest in April 2011.
To date, no awards have vested under the Plan, with the initial awards 100% due to vest in December 2009 also having failed to meet the required target.
This outcome, in part, reflects the timing of 75% the awards in the copper price cycle, the extreme volatility of the copper price during the performance periods and the 50% impact of these factors on Kazakhmys TSR.
For this reason, from 2011, the Committee intends to make a minor change to 25% the operation of the TSR performance target, so as to split the 0% awards and measure TSR over two separate performance 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% periods.
This will not have any impact on the expected value of the awards, but will help to mitigate the impact that the cyclical Performance relative to comparator group percentile nature of the copper industry has on the share price.
Further details are set out below.
The composition of the TSR comparator group is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The comparator group Long term incentive Plan LtiP for 2011 applicable for awards granted in 2010 comprised: The Plan will continue to have the same quantum of awards.
TSR will continue to be the sole performance target but rather than measuring the TSR target on a single base to end three Alcoa Inc Anglo American plc year performance period, each award will be split into two Antofagasta plc Aquarius Platinum plc sub-awards each of which is subject to TSR performance over BHP Billiton plc Boliden AB a separate three year performance period as shown below.
Cameco Corporation Eurasian Natural Resources Comparison of current and previous Corporation PLC TSR performance periods New approach: award split into two sub-awards each First Quantum Minerals Ltd Freeport-McMoran with three year vesting periods Copper & Gold Inc Fresnillo plc Hochschild Mining plc Sub-award 1: 3 year vesting period Inmet Mining Corporation Korea Zinc Inc Lonmin plc Lundin Mining Corporation Sub-award 2: 3 year vesting period Rio Tinto plc Southern Copper Corporation 41 months Sumitomo Metal Teck Resources Ltd B Pre-2011 approach: whole award measured from grant date Mining Co. Ltd Vedanta Resources plc Xstrata plc Single 3 year vesting period www.
com % of total award vesting Corporate Governance 86 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued For awards granted in 2011 the performance period for the Pensions sub-awards will be: The Company does not provide pension benefits on behalf of any executive Directors.
The absence of any pension sub-award 1: 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013: and provision is taken into account when setting base salaries sub-award 2: 1 June 2011 to 31 May 2014. and other elements of remuneration.
As the performance period of the first sub-award commences expected value of future remuneration package prior to the date of grant and that of the second sub-award The following charts show the total remuneration package commences after the date of grant, the performance period for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk split between pay at for the entire award will be 41 months.
risk and fixed pay for on-target and maximum performance.
As the averaging period for calculating TSR is three months Composition of pay: leading up to the start and the end of the performance Oleg Novachuk Chief Executive period of each sub-award, under this phased approach Kazakhmys TSR for a period of six months at the start and the Outcome at stretch end of the performance period of the entire award will have an impact on the performance outturn.
This phased approach is designed to increase the number of months the share price Outcome at target has an impact on the performance target and to reduce the impact of the volatility of Kazakhmys share price on the vesting of awards, whilst not materially changing the average 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% vesting level over the medium term and hence not increasing the expected value of awards.
Base salary Bonus paid in cash Long-term incentives The Committee reviewed the comparator list of companies and the following companies were removed: Alcoa Inc, 1 Based on 2011 policy: does not take account of any share Aquarius Platinum plc, Cameco Corporation, Korea Zinc Inc, price growth.
Lonmin plc and Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. Ltd. Those companies removed from the list were either in commodities Composition of pay: unrelated to Kazakhmys or showed a low share price Vladimir Kim Executive Chairman correlation indicating they were subject to different value drivers and economic cycles.
Outcome at stretch executive share option plan The Kazakhmys UK Executive Share Option Plan ESOP Outcome at target was approved by the Board in March 2010 and approved by shareholders in May 2010.
The ESOP is an HMRC approved discretionary company share option plan that provides for the grant of market value options up to a value of 30,000 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% to executive Directors and certain selected UK-based senior Base salary Bonus paid in cash executives.
Options will normally vest three years from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of a performance 1 Based on 2011 policy: does not take account of any share condition and the participant being a Director or employee price growth.
of Kazakhmys at that time.
Dilution of share capital Options granted to executive Directors and senior executives The Companys share-based incentive plans operate with under the ESOP will count towards the individual limits market purchased shares that are held in an Employee under the LTIP and will normally be subject to the same Benefit Trust.
Therefore, there is no dilution of existing performance condition as awards granted under the LTIP.
shareholders on the vesting of awards.
No options were granted to executive Directors under the ESOP in 2010.
All employee share schemes Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys UK Sharesave plan, which is open to all UK employees.
It permits the grant of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the share price at the time of invitation and is linked to a Sharesave contract, with a maximum savings limit of 250 per month.
No executive Director currently participates in the UK Sharesave plan.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87 employee Benefit trust Base Annual Total The Kazakhmys Employee Benefit Trust has been established salary bonus 2010 Chief Financial Officers remuneration 000 000 000 to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights Matthew Hird 429 343 772 to shares arising on the exercise of awards under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
The trustees of the Kazakhmys service agreements Employee Benefit Trust have informed the Company that The Companys policy is that executive Directors will be their intention is to abstain from voting in respect of the employed on a contract that can be terminated by the Kazakhmys shares held in the trust.
Company on giving no more than one years notice, with the executive Director required to give up to six months As at 31 December 2010 617,204 shares were held by notice of termination.
the Employee Benefit Trust to hedge outstanding awards of 776,526.
This means that the trust holds 79% of The contracts of Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk are outstanding awards.
terminable by either the Company or the executive on three months notice.
These were granted to them on Performance graph 26 September 2005.
The Company retains the right to The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2010, of terminate these contracts immediately, in accordance with 100 invested in Kazakhmys PLC shares on 1 January 2006 the terms of their service agreement, on payment of a sum compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 100 equal to the contractual notice entitlement of three months.
Index and FTSE 350 Mining Sector Index.
These indices The Company reserves the right on termination to make were chosen as they are broad-based indices of which phased payments which are paid in monthly instalments and the Company is a member and are widely recognised subject to mitigation through a legal obligation on the part performance comparisons for large UK mining companies.
of the outgoing executive Director to seek new employment.
Total Shareholder Return The contract of David Munro is terminable by either the Company or the executive on six months notice.
If notice 300 is served, the Company would continue to pay salary and 250 provide contractual benefits.
The contract does not permit the Company to make a payment in lieu of notice.
200 150 David Munro will be stepping down as Development Director and 100 from the Board of the Company at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2011.
Thereafter, he will continue to 50 serve as a part-time executive and will remain a member of the 0 Executive Committee.
Details of remuneration paid to him Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 during 2011 will be disclosed in the 2011 Annual Report.
Kazakhmys PLC Policy on external appointments FTSE 100 Index The Committee believes that the Company can benefit from FTSE 350 Mining Sector Index executive Directors holding one approved non-executive Source: Thomson Reuters directorship of another company, offering executive Directors the opportunity to broaden their experience and senior managers salaries knowledge.
Company policy is to allow executive Directors The salaries for the year ended 31 December 2010 of those to retain fees paid from any such appointment.
David Munro senior managers immediately below the Group Board level is a non-executive director of Lonmin plc and is a member were as shown in the table below: of its Nomination Committee and Safety and Sustainability Committee.
In this capacity he receives a total annual fee Number of of 65,000 which he retains.
com Value Corporate Governance 88 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued non-executive Directors Base fee 84,000 Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts Plus: but each has a letter of appointment with the Company.
Senior Independent Director 12,000 Each letter of appointment provides for a one month notice period.
Non-executive Directors are normally appointed Chairman of the following Board Committees: for two consecutive three-year terms, with any third term Audit, GHSE and Remuneration 12,000 of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking Member of the following Board Committees: into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
1 Audit, GHSE and Remuneration 6,000 For each non-executive Director who served during 2010, the effective date of their letter of appointment is shown 1 No fee is paid for membership of a Committee if a non-executive in the table below: Director already receives a fee as either the Senior Independent Director or the chairman of a Board Committee.
Date of appointment Fees paid to non-executive Directors during the year ended Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 31 December 2010 are set out below: Clinton Dines 1 October 2009 total fees Simon Heale 1 January 2007 2009 2010 000 000 Peter Hickson 5 March 2009 1 non-executive Directors fees Vladimir Ni 23 September 2005 Philip Aiken 109 108 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 1 December 2005 Clinton Dines 23 92 Daulet Yergozhin 19 November 2008 Simon Heale 102 96 1 Vladimir Ni ceased to be a Director on 9 September 2010.
Peter Hickson 79 96 non-executive Director fees 1 Vladimir Ni 415 280 Fees for the non-executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole, upon the recommendation of the executive Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 102 96 Directors, with regard to market practice and to reflect individual 2 Daulet Yergozhin 93 84 responsibilities and membership of Board Committees.
1 The Board reviews non-executive Directors fees periodically.
Vladimir Ni ceased to be a Director on 9 September 2010.
His remuneration consisted of two elements: a non-executive The fees were last reviewed in 2009, with the base fee for Directors fee of 58,000 in respect of his duties as a non-executive non-executive Directors being reduced from 120,000 to Director of the Company and a salary of $343,000 222,000 in 84,000, with additional fees paid to the Senior Independent respect of his duties as chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
Director, and Board Committee chairmen and members.
2 As the Chairman of the Tax Committee of the Government of Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Kazakhstan, Daulet Yergozhin is not permitted to receive fees Companys share schemes or incentive plans, nor do they personally and his fees were paid to the Biodiversity Fund of Kazakhstan, an environmental charity.
accrue pension benefits from the Company for their non-executive Director services.
The fee structure as at 31 December 2010 is shown below.
No increase in non-executive Director fees is proposed for 2011.
Directors interests in the Long term incentive Plan LtiP Following approval of the LTIP by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, a nil cost option over shares was granted to Oleg Novachuk on 17 May 2010 under the LTIP as set out in the table below: As at 1 As at 31 Directors interests in LTIP Grant date January 2010 Granted in year Vested in year Lapsed in year December 2010 Vesting date Oleg Novachuk 17 May 2010 116,532 116,532 17 May 2013 1 In line with the policy approved by shareholders, the award is subject to a performance condition and performance period as at 26 November 2009.
2 Share price as at date of grant was 1,201p.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89 Directors interests in ordinary shares The beneficial interests of the Directors and their connected persons who held office at 31 December 2010 in the Companys ordinary shares as at that date and 1 January 2010 are shown in table below.
Ordinary shares ordinary shares at 1 January at 31 December 2010 2010 Directors interests in ordinary shares Philip Aiken 4,000 4,000 Simon Heale 5,000 5,000 Vladimir Kim 208,183,588 149,306,795 David Munro 41,211 4,000 Oleg Novachuk 34,923,423 34,923,423 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 4,000 4,000 1 No changes in Directors interests occurred in the period 1 January 2011 to 28 March 2011.
2 The market value of the Companys shares in 2010 was in the range of 965p to 1,638p.
Auditable information The Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have audited the information contained in the tables headed Executive Directors base salaries, Executive Directors total emoluments, Senior managers salaries, non-executive Directors fees and Directors interests in ordinary shares.
On behalf of the Board Lord Renwick Chairman, Remuneration Committee 28 March 2011 www.
com Corporate Governance 90 Directors Report: Governance other statutory information Principal activities Dividend Kazakhmys PLC is the holding company of the Kazakhmys The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend Group.
The principal activities of the Group are the of 16.0 US cents per ordinary share 2009: 9.0 US cents.
production of copper and other metals as by-products, If approved, the dividend will be paid on 17 May 2011 to including zinc, silver and gold, and power generation.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 April 2011.
An interim dividend of 6.0 US cents per share A list of main subsidiary undertakings and the joint venture, 2009: nil was paid on 5 October 2010.
Shareholders may and their principal activity, is given in note 47 on page 162. elect to receive their dividend in UK pounds sterling by completing a currency election form available from the Directors Companys registrar.
The Directors of the Company who served during the year were as indicated on pages 64 and 65, together with Vladimir Ni Annual general meeting who ceased to be a Director on 9 September 2010.
Details of The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Directors interests in shares can be found in the Directors 12.15pm on Friday 13 May 2011 at The Lincoln Centre, Remuneration Report on page 89.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed together Eduard Ogay, Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys with explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Corporation LLC, is to be appointed to the Board as an Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
executive Director with effect from 13 May 2011.
Newly appointed Directors are required to retire at the first AGM A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be following their appointment and to seek election by published on the Companys website www.
Therefore, Eduard Ogay will be seeking election by shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
share capital In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, At 31 December 2010, the Companys issued share capital Vladimir Kim, Oleg Novachuk and Lord Renwick will retire was 535,240,338 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as Directors at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will as fully paid.
Further details of the Companys issued share offer themselves for re-election.
As explained in the service capital are shown in note 27 on page 142. agreement paragraph on page 87, Vladimir Kim and Oleg The Companys shares are listed on the London and Novachuk have a service agreements terminable by the Kazakhstan stock exchanges.
The Company has a branch Company or the Director on three months notice.
Renwick does not have a service agreement.
David Munro and Peter Hickson will also retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and will not seek re-election.
In major shareholdings accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate As at 28 March 2011, the Company had been notified Governance Code, it is anticipated that all Directors will under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of be submitted for re-election on an annual basis commencing the Financial Services Authority of the following interests from the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012. of 3% or more in its ordinary share capital: During the year no Director had any interest in any shares or Percentage of debentures of the Companys subsidiaries, or any material Number of total ordinary share interests in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being ordinary shares of capital held as at a contract of significance in relation to the Companys business.
Name of holder 20 pence each held 28 March 2011 Cuprum Holding B. V. 135,944,325 25.4 Directors indemnity and insurance The State Property & Kazakhmys maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Privatisation Committee of Officers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each the Ministry of Finance of the of the Directors, Matthew Hird Chief Financial Officer and Republic of Kazakhstan 80,286,050 15.0 the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount, in relation to certain Joint Stock Company losses and liabilities which they may incur to third parties in National Welfare Fund the course of acting as a Director or Officer or Company Samruk-Kazyna 58,876,793 11.0 Secretary as the case may be of the Company or any of its Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 5.5 associated companies.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance cover provides cover in the event that a Director or Officer 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding B. V. or Company Secretary as the case may be is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will continue in force for the benefit of Directors or Officer or Company Secretary as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91 more than 30 days with a view to agreeing alternative terms Relationship agreement for continuing the Facility.
If no alternative basis has been To regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company agreed during such period then the lenders may cancel the and Vladimir Kim, a relationship agreement was entered into commitments of the lenders to lend the Facility and declare in September 2005.
The principal purpose of the relationship all outstanding amounts due and payable.
agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business for the benefit of the shareholders of the Each of a $2 billion facility agreement dated 30 December Company as a whole.
2009, a $100 million facility agreement dated 30 December 2009 and a $200 million facility agreement dated 12 January 2010, in each case entered into between Kazakhmys Finance Political and charitable donations PLC as borrower and Joint Stock Company Sovereign Wealth The Group did not give any money for political purposes in Fund Samruk-Kazyna as lender, contain terms which give the the United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU lender the right to cancel all or any of the commitments political organisations or incur any EU political expenditure provided to Kazakhmys Finance PLC, declare all or part of the during the year.
The Group made charitable donations of loans, together with accrued interest, and all other amounts $6.4 million during the year 2009: $5.8 million.
Further accrued or outstanding immediately due and payable and or details of payments for charitable and community purposes declare that all or part of the loans be payable on demand if made during the year are given on pages 45 and 47. the Company ceases to hold 100 per cent.
less one share of the issued share capital of Kazakhmys Finance PLC.
suppliers It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made going concern in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely the Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant to impact its future growth and operating performance are trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 63.
The financial The average creditor payment period for the year ended position of the Group, its cash flows, financial risk management 31 December 2010 for the Company was 14.1 days policies and available debt facilities are described in the 2009: 3.8 days.
Financial Review on pages 48 to 63.
In addition, note 35 commencing on page 148 sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital structure, market value of land and buildings liquidity position and financial risks arising from exposures Land acquired prior to 1 January 2002, is carried in the balance to commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange.
sheet at deemed cost resulting from a revaluation, which was undertaken as at 1 January 2002 as part of the Groups transition With the stronger commodity prices in the latter part of 2009 to reporting under IFRS.
Land and buildings acquired since and throughout 2010, the Group has a strong cash position with 1 January 2002 are recorded at cost.
It is not practical to available funds of approximately $900 million at 31 December estimate the market value of land, buildings and mineral 2010, and a modest net debt level from continuing operations reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
of $350 million compared to earnings.
The Directors have considered the Groups financial position, the available credit Policy on derivatives and financial instruments facilities, the planned capital expenditure programme and the outlook for the Groups products, and believe there is sufficient The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk cover to meet the Groups anticipated cash flow requirements.
management, and information on the Groups exposures to foreign exchange, counterparty credit, commodity price, After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in note 35 expectation that the Group has adequate resources to commencing on page 148. continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of significant agreements change of control accounting in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The following significant agreements contain certain termination and other rights for the counterparties upon Articles of Association a change of control of the Company.
The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law The terms of a $2.1 billion pre-export finance debt facility the concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary Facility dated 29 February 2008 between the Company and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles the financial institutions named in the Facility provide that if of Association and the Companies Act 2006. any person excluding Vladimir Kim or Oleg Novachuk or group of people acting in concert secures control of the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Company: i a lender under the Facility shall not be obliged by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
to fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing Where class rights are varied, such amendments must be more than two-thirds of the amount of the Facility so require, approved by the members of each class of shares respectively.
the parties shall enter into negotiations for a period of not www.
