4 Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans statement continued share price and dividends Our share price ended the year at 1,614 pence compared to 1,328 pence at the end of 2009.
This improvement reflects the interest in metals markets.
During the year, the share price traded in a range from 965 pence to 1,638 pence.
Market sentiment is often fragile, and our share price can be volatile in response to short-term news on metals markets and emerging market growth.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of $86 million, or 16.0 US cents per share.
This payment, together with the interim dividend of $32 million paid in October 2010, represents 22.0 US cents per share for the year as a whole.
In 2009, the full year dividend was $48 million, or 9.0 US cents per share.
Our dividend policy remains unchanged, which is to consider the cash generation and requirements of the business and then recommend a suitable dividend.
This policy maintains flexibility on dividend payments, which is appropriate given the underlying cyclicality of a commodity business.
Future ordinary dividends are likely to remain prudent, as the exact cost of our growth projects is still to be finalised and we have a major capital expenditure programme to complete over the next few years.
outlook The outlook for copper remains positive.
There will be short-term fluctuations in price and demand, but copper is a metal in constrained supply and is fundamental for economic growth and development.
Our power business is on course for a strong performance in 2011, reflecting economic growth in Kazakhstan, rising tariffs and the continued refurbishment of the power station.
Our challenge is to remain focused on managing costs and delivering our growth projects, so that we remain globally competitive.
We are well positioned in our key customer markets and, underpinned by robust fundamentals, the long-term outlook for Kazakhmys remains strong.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Directors Report: Business Review A Consistent strategy Achieving our goals through a clear business strategy our Vision To develop ourselves as the leading natural resources company in Central Asia, combining international best practice with the exceptional mineral opportunities available in the region.
our objective To deliver value for shareholders and maintain a strong social commitment to our employees, the environment and the communities around us.
Our our strategy Strategy optimise existing assets Deliver growth projects take advantage of natural We are developing management tools to We will aim to replace existing reserves resource opportunities improve the performance of our existing and deliver growth in output by investing We will actively seek out and acquire assets and create opportunities to raise in projects that add additional value to attractive, undeveloped natural resource efficiency in our operations.
This will include extensions assets principally in the Central Asian from procurement of equipment, improved to our existing mines and mid-sized mine region.
This will be achieved through maintenance and better planning.
We developments, along with new concentrators exploration and by acquiring known assets.
believe we can reduce costs, increase and concentrator upgrades.
We also intend yields and raise productivity.
to deliver our major growth projects, Aktogay and Bozshakol.
10 12 35 Key Performance indicators Risk Factors Corporate Responsibility The Group has eight key performance The activities of the Group and the Underpinning our strategy is a commitment indicators, which are used to measure delivery of its strategy will always include to operating responsibly, taking account the success of the Group.
The KPIs focus an element of risk.
The Group has a formal of our employees, the environment and on financial returns, but in order to relate framework for assessing and reviewing risks the communities around us.
We have six to the Groups strategy, they also include to ensure that they are realistically evaluated specific corporate responsibility KPIs to measurements of production, cost and monitored.
measure our progress and performance and growth.
com Strategic Review 6 Directors Report: Business Review Chief executives Review translating action into results across all operations summary for 2010 These are a robust set of results we met or exceeded all of the production targets set at the start of the year and maintained our competitive cost position.
We made some important progress in optimising our existing assets and on our growth projects, which both lay foundations for our future expansion and success.
Our financial results improved significantly in 2010, with continued strength in the copper price.
Our average realised sales price increased by 50% compared to 2009, to $7,523 per tonne.
The rise in the copper price more than offset the decline in volumes sold and Group revenues increased by 35% to $3,237 million.
Our general policy is not to hedge our metal sales, and we have therefore been able to take the full benefit of the positive pricing environment.
Underlying costs rose during 2010, particularly in the second half of the year, with an increase in commodity input prices.
Segmental EBITDA excluding special items was $1,932 million, an increase of $721 million from 2009.
This result led to an EBITDA margin of 60%, compared to 50% in the prior year.
EPS based on Underlying Profit of the Group in 2010 was In 2010 we met or exceeded all $2.79 per share, compared to $1.13 per share in 2009.
This is an increase of 147%, benefiting from a lower tax charge our production and cost targets.
and higher contributions from our associate, ENRC, and Strong cash flows and new funding our joint venture at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
facilities give us a wide range of Copper Division opportunities and with additions to Output of copper cathode equivalent from own material in 2010 was 303 kt, in line with the target set at the start of the our senior management we believe year.
This was 5% below the output level of 2009, mainly due we are in an exceptional position to an anticipated reduction in ore grade, which declined from 1.18% to 1.09%.
Output in 2009 had also benefited from the to take the Group forward.
processing of stockpiled ores, which was partially offset in 2010 by the reprocessing of waste materials.
oleg novachuk, Chief Executive Sales volumes of copper cathode equivalent in 2010 were 317 kt, which was 7% below the volumes sold in the prior year, when sales volumes benefited from a greater reduction in finished goods.
The lower level of sales was more than offset by the increase in the copper price, so that revenues from copper-based products increased by $673 million to $2,384 million.
By-product sales accounted for 25% of revenues within the Copper Division, a similar proportion to 2009.
Pricing was also higher for all our major by-products, zinc, silver and gold.
Gold sales volumes were in line with the previous year, despite lower production volumes, zinc production and sales increased, whilst silver production and sales declined.
Pricing, however, was again the dominant factor, so that revenues from by-products increased by 24% to $798 million.
Gross cash costs increased from 159 USc lb to 203 USc lb, reflecting a rise in input costs and the impact of fixed costs on a lower sales volume.
Net cash costs were 89 USc lb, a rise of 23%, benefiting from strong by-product revenues.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Copper Division outlook of the senior management team reporting to me, are Copper production in 2011 is forecast to be at a similar level to shown below.
Historically the business has been managed 2010.
Copper grades may decline slightly, at a similar rate to on a regional basis.
Part of the restructuring programme is that seen in 2010.
Volumes of ore mined will increase, which to replace this with functional management, which should should help offset the decline in grade.
The cost pressures improve control of quality and costs.
seen in the second half of 2010 are likely to continue into Optimisation of our existing assets has been a key part of our 2011 with cost inflation impacting input prices and mining strategy since Listing.
We have made some good progress in materials.
These factors will create a headwind in 2011 this area over the past year, creating a solid foundation for across the industry, and costs will continue to be a focus future development of the programme.
There is also some pressure on capital costs, but stay in business capital expenditure for 2011 Power Division is likely to be between $300 million and $400 million, compared to $355 million in 2010.
On 26 February 2010, the Group completed the sale of a 50% interest in Ekibastuz GRES-1 to Samruk-Kazyna with optimisation and restructuring the Group retaining a 50% interest.
During 2010, we ran pilot optimisation projects in several activities, including equipment procurement and maintenance, During 2010, there was a 14% increase in net power generated processing efficiencies and raising recovery rates.
The increase was due to both the attraction will be seeking to move these programmes more widely across of new customers and a growth in demand from existing our operations and these are likely to become key to the customers.
This trend reflects the overall increase seen in development of our optimisation programme.
the consumption of power in Kazakhstan during 2010.
The weighted average realised tariff in 2010 was 4.49 KZT kWh, The Group has commenced a restructuring exercise to just below the permissible domestic ceiling tariff of 4.68 KZT kWh improve efficiency and streamline decision making.
This and 41% higher compared to 2009.
The increase in tariff creates restructuring has coincided with some key senior management strong cash flows, which support the substantial investment appointments, including the recent recruitment of a new Chief programme taking place at the power station.
Operating Officer, a Head of Projects and a Head of Human Resources.
These individuals, along with the other members Realising our potential m AnAgi ng ouR Busi ness eFFeCtiVeL y We are focused on improving quality and reducing costs across all of our operations.
The case studies within the Operating Review provide an insight into some of our key priorities and focus areas.
operating efficiently and responsibly page 21 Progressing our project pipeline page 22 1 2 3 4 5 6 Creating efficient services page 25 1. ted Kowalski 3. sergei Diachenko 5. matthew Hird expanding power to Group HR Director Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer meet demand page 29 2.
Vladimir Jumanbayev 4. eduard ogay 6. mian Khalil Commercial Director Chief Executive Officer, Head of Projects Kazakhmys Corporation LLC www www.
com Strategic Review 8 Directors Report: Business Review Chief executives Review continued There are eight units at Ekibastuz GRES-1 of which five are Petroleum Division currently in operation.
The rehabilitation of a sixth unit is During 2010, the deep well drilling programme continued underway with commissioning scheduled for the end of at Eastern Akzhar with the development of four deep wells.
The rehabilitation of a seventh unit commenced in Hydrocarbons are present in all wells.
late 2010, ahead of schedule, and should be commissioned We are currently working with the Government on the extension by the end of 2014.
With both of these units operational by of the exploration licence.
In 2011, we will continue with the the end of 2014, the capacity of the power station will be assessment of the first three wells, the testing of the fourth 3,500 MW.
The rehabilitation of the final unit will return well and the drilling of a fifth well.
Over the course of 2011, the power station to its original nameplate capacity we should be in a position to assess the economic value of of 4,000 MW.
the field and consider the best way to take this asset forward.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 remains a highly attractive business.
Demand and pricing was strong in 2010 and this trend enRC should continue into 2011.
At 31 December 2010 our 26% holding of ENRC was worth For 2011, five units will be in operation and we should see $5,431 million.
The contribution to EBITDA excluding special an increase in net power generated to around 11,500 GWh.
items was $903 million, an increase of $480 million on 2010.
The ceiling tariff has risen to 5.60 KZT kWh and we anticipate The increase in contribution from ENRC to the Groups moving towards that rate over the course of the year for earnings was principally driven by a rise in prices for ENRCs domestic sales.
Sales to Russian customers should also main commodities of ferrochrome, alumina and iron ore. increase, although these sales are often at a discount to These price rises were also accompanied by an increase in domestic pricing, due to a different price setting formula.
volumes in response to strong customer demand, with record Ekibastuz GRES-1 will invest over $200 million on its output in iron ore and a significant increase in production investment programme in 2011, which will include the across all the ferroalloy products.
Cost pressures were overhaul of a current unit, the rehabilitation of two further experienced during the year, but these were more than offset units and the continued programme to install electrostatic by the increased pricing and volumes, such that the precipitators across the power plant, which will significantly underlying EBITDA margin increased from 2009. reduce ash emissions.
During 2010, ENRC expanded their business with further As part of our Group optimisation programme we intend acquisitions outside Central Asia, but the core business of to separate the three captive power stations away from our ENRC is the ferrochrome division in Kazakhstan, representing Copper Division and into a single Power Division, headed 44% of their underlying EBITDA, which remains one of the most by one management team.
This should improve efficiency attractive and competitive ferroalloys operations in the world.
within the power stations and in our use of power within the Copper Division.
Assets held for sale At the start of 2010 we announced our intention to sell gold Division the Maikuben coal mine and MKM.
Maikuben was acquired The main asset within the Gold Division is the Bozymchak in 2008, along with the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station.
The development was delayed Ekibastuz GRES-1 sources most of its coal from the Bogatyr by the civil unrest in Kyrgyzstan, but is now proceeding.
mine, which is 50% owned by Samruk-Kazyna, our joint Management of the project has been transferred to our venture partner at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
The disposal of new Project Team and we anticipate that first production Maikuben should be completed in 2011. of concentrate should commence in 2012.
MKM, a downstream copper processing business in Germany, There was a decrease in ore extraction at the Gold Division was acquired in 2004 before our Listing.
We are continuing to during 2010 compared to 2009, as Mukur and Mizek mines talk to several parties about the disposal and anticipate that move towards the end of their operational lives.
This trend this should complete in 2011.
The business is performing was reflected in the output of gold dor which declined well, assisted by the relatively strong economic recovery 8% to 43 koz.
in Germany and some of the neighbouring countries.
In 2011, as part of our restructuring, the Gold Division will be absorbed into the Copper Division.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement, we are Funding considering proceeding with the feasibility study at Aktogay Our balance sheet has benefited from higher metals prices sulphide, our second major growth project, and we are and at the end of the period we had net debt of $350 million.
reviewing potential study contractors for this work.
There This figure compares to Segmental EBITDA excluding special is a smaller oxide deposit at Aktogay and we may accelerate items of $1,932 million.
We have available credit facilities the development of this part of the project, ahead of the of $300 million and a $2 billion undrawn balance from larger sulphide ore body.
the $2.7 billion copper project loan facility with the China Development Bank and Samruk-Kazyna.
We continue to pay Our Project Team is advancing with a series of mid-sized down our pre-export credit facility at a rate of $44 million projects, including the development of mines and per month, and this facility will be repaid by February 2013. construction of a new concentrator at Kosmurun-Akbastau, and the second stage of development at the Zhomart Our balance sheet is also strengthened by our 26% holding mine.
These projects are at different stages of drilling in ENRC, worth $5,431 million at the end of 2010. and assessment, but we should be in a position to We believe that the Group has considerable flexibility to provide regular updates on each project during 2011. consider growth opportunities, both organic and acquired, where we believe that we can add value and the assets employees fit with our strategic objectives.
The success of Kazakhmys is dependent upon the efforts of 61,000 individuals.
I should like to thank them for their sales efforts over the past year and their assistance in taking We typically arrange off-take agreements for up to 90% the Group forward.
of our anticipated production each year, evenly split between A key responsibility of management is the welfare of the customers in Europe and China.
The balance of around 10% workforce.
Management must lead by example and create is held for spot sales during the year.
All of the agreements an environment in which safety is paramount.
As mentioned for 2011 had been completed by the end of 2010.
As was in the Chairmans Statement, safety should be a key indicator expected, demand from customers was firm and premiums of successful operational management.
were generally higher than in 2010.
We have made several changes over the course of 2010, The agreements for 2011 were again made with our existing including working with DuPont on risk analysis and customers, many of whom have dealt with us for several management training.
Our newly appointed Chief Operating years.
I should like to thank them for their support and we Officer, Sergei Diachenko, has an obvious commitment to look forward to continuing to work with them in the future.
helping us improve in this area.
Copper growth projects summary With the formation of our new Project Team we are making Output of copper in 2011 should be at a similar level to 2010, improved progress across all areas.
The overall aim is to with a modest increase in power output at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
take our copper production from a current level of 300 kt Mining costs will be impacted by inflation, which will make to 500 kt over the next seven years.
We have also increased management of costs and optimisation increasingly important.
our exploration programme to identify copper projects beyond 2015.
Our growth projects are at an important stage and I look forward to reporting on their development over the course A draft feasibility study was completed at Bozshakol in 2010. of the year.
Further drilling is being undertaken to provide additional data, particularly around the gold resource.
This work remains on track and a final feasibility study should be completed by the end of 2011.
Some basic engineering has already commenced and we should be in a position to move into the development phase in 2012, which will allow first ore to be produced in 2015. www.
com Strategic Review 10 Directors Report: Business Review Key Performance indicators measuring our progress through KPis The Group delivers objective: Delivering value for our shareholders its strategy against the objectives set out on Earnings per share based Group EBITDA on Underlying profit $ excluding special items $ million page 5.
It also uses a range of performance 2.79 2,835 indicators to measure the 10 10 growth and performance 2.79 2,835 09 09 1.13 1,634 of the Group over time.
08 08 2.27 2,056 07 07 3.02 2,336 measuring progress 06 06 3.00 2,308 against our strategy Relevance Shows how much net profit we have Relevance This is a measure of the underlying Since Listing in 2005, Kazakhmys has generated and measures the return to our equity profitability of the Group, widely used in the reported six KPIs in each Annual Report, all shareholders.
EPS can be used as an indication mining sector.
of which were financial measures.
There was of profits available to shareholders for distribution How we measure EBITDA is earnings before a review in 2010 to consider the relevance or retention in the business.
interest, taxation, depreciation, depletion, of the existing KPIs, the introduction of How we measure Profit before special items and amortisation and mineral extraction tax as adjusted non-financial KPIs, and to align the KPIs other non-recurring or variable non-trading items, for special items and including the share of EBITDA with the Group Strategy and Risks.
and their resulting taxation and minority interest of the joint venture and the associate.
impact, divided by the weighted average number Following the review, five of the existing Performance 2010 Group EBITDA increased of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
KPIs have been retained but Return on 74% to $2,835 million, mainly due to increased Capital Employed has been discontinued.
Performance 2010 EPS increased 147%, driven by metals prices, which offset the increase in the cost Ore output, project status, and maintenance higher metals prices, and assisted by a lower tax base.
The contribution from our associate ENRC rate and higher contributions from our associate increased from $423 million to $903 million, which spend per tonne of copper production ENRC and our joint venture at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
was again due to rising commodity prices.
In the Corporate Responsibility section, commencing on page 35, there are five Free Cash Flow $ million new specific corporate responsibility KPIs.
The KPIs will be regularly reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant.
718 10 718 09 579 08 715 07 895 06 1,327 Relevance Monitors Group cash flows used to fund returns to shareholders and invest in the future growth and development of the business.
It is an indicator of the ability to grow the business through reinvestment, reduce debt or to make returns to shareholders.
How we measure Net cash flow from operating activities less sustaining capital expenditure on tangible and intangible assets.
Performance 2010 Free Cash Flow increased 24% to $718 million.
Cash flows from operating activities were significantly stronger in 2010.
Higher commodity prices and a less adverse working capital movement offset the higher sustaining capital expenditure and tax payments.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 strategy: strategy: Optimise existing assets Deliver growth projects Ore output kt Cash costs of copper USc lb Project status 2010 32,935 89 10 10 32,935 Development 1 89 09 09 32,409 72 Feasibility 1 08 08 35,675 116 Pre-feasibility 3 07 07 33,967 33 Scoping 3 06 06 39,240 9 Relevance Ore output indicates our ability to Relevance Measures the performance of the Group Relevance A key aim of the Groups strategy is to in maintaining its low-cost base whilst maximising maximise output from existing assets and growth deliver our growth projects and take advantage of revenues through the sale of by-products.
This KPI should be considered alongside opportunities in natural resources.
Project status other measurements including final copper How we measure The total of cash operating costs indicates the number of growth projects active production costs and maintenance spend, excluding purchased concentrate less by-product within the Group and their stage of development.
revenues, divided by the volume of copper cathode to ensure extraction is valuable.
How we measure The number of major or equivalent sales.
How we measure Number of tonnes of ore mid-sized projects in the key stages of scoping, Performance 2010 Net cash costs increased 23% extracted from our Copper Division.
Gross costs increased from 159 USc lb No data is given for 2009 as this is the first to 203 USc lb due to rising input costs, the impact Performance 2010 Ore extraction increased 2% year the measurement has been included.
of fixed costs on a lower sales base and lower to 32,935 kt.
The increase slightly offset the decline grades with increased ore volumes.
Net costs in copper grade, from 1.18% in 2009 to 1.09%.
Performance 2010 Bozymchak is in development were assisted by higher by-product credits, due to This increase in extraction and lower grade stage, with production due in 2012.
In 2010, volumes being above target and strong by-product increases extraction and processing costs.
Bozshakol moved into feasibility study, from pricing.
In the current inflationary environment, pre-feasibility and should move to the development costs are likely to remain under pressure in 2011. stage in 2012.
Akbastau and Kosmurun are both in pre-feasibility study, which should complete early Maintenance spend per tonne 2012.
Aktogay is expected to move into feasibility Copper cathode production kt of copper $ t study in 2011, having completed its pre-feasibility study in late 2009.
Projects at Zhomart, Shatyrkul and Zhaisan are currently at scoping stage.
303 1,075 10 10 303 1,075 09 09 320 644 08 08 343 1,038 07 07 341 672 06 06 368 212 Relevance Copper, the Groups principal product, Relevance Indicates how much cash flow is required represents 75% of Group revenue and is the main to maintain current output and how efficient we are operational indicator.
The price of copper is set at controlling capital expenditure.
by the market and is not, therefore, a KPI.
How we measure Stay-in-business capital How we measure Copper cathode equivalent expenditure, for the Copper Division, divided produced from own ore either as refined copper by copper cathode production volumes from cathodes or as recoverable copper in concentrate our own material.
Performance 2010 Maintenance spend was Performance 2010 Production of copper cathode $1,075 per tonne, an increase from 2009.
This increase equivalent was 303 kt, in line with the target set reflects depressed levels of input costs in 2009 at the early in the year.
Output was lower than 2009 depth of the economic crisis, and the Groups actions due to declining grade, partly compensated by to conserve cash at that time.
2010 witnessed some higher ore volumes.
In 2009, output benefited from catch up from reduced expenditure in 2009 and production from stockpiled ore, partially offset in expenditure is, by contrast, just 4% ahead of 2008.
2010 by reprocessing of waste materials.
In 2011, There is inflationary pressure on the cost of mining production is likely to remain at a similar level.
equipment, which is likely to continue in 2011. www.
com Performance Review 12 Directors Report: Business Review Risk Factors improving the way we manage risk The significant risks identified by Kazakhmys are those that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, strategies and prospects.
These should be carefully considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement set out on page 180.
There may be other risks unknown, or currently believed immaterial, by Kazakhmys which might become material.
Operational risks Risk description Impact Action Health and safety incidents could lead to a Kazakhmys recognises that the highest standards Health and safety number of adverse consequences, including of health and safety practices are vital to its Mining is a hazardous industry and failure to harm to people, as well as production disruption, success, and are a key responsibility of all adopt and embed health and safety management reputational damage and financial loss.
The Groups policies and procedures systems could result in harm to Kazakhmys levels at Kazakhmys are higher than at comparable in these areas are designed to identify relevant employees as well as fines and penalties and internationally listed mining companies, with risks and opportunities and provide a clear damage to the Groups reputation.
26 fatalities recorded for 2010. framework for conducting business.
Further details on the measures being taken to improve health and safety practices, including the work of the Groups HSE function, are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 35.
For more info see page 35 Any disruption to operational activities could Work is being undertaken across the Group, with Business interruption have a negative impact on the Groups profitability the support of appropriate in-house and third-party The business of mining, smelting and refining and cash flows, and may require the Group to specialists, to address operational risk issues.
A metals and the production of power is resource make large unplanned capital expenditures.
In review of maintenance practices is underway with intensive, and involves a number of risks, including, addition to revenue losses, long-term business the objective of improving equipment availability but not limited to, geological and technological interruption could result in a loss of customers and reducing outages.
The Group is partially challenges, weather and other natural phenomena and reputational damage.
protected from the loss of key assets by the such as floods and earthquakes, fires, explosions, availability of geographically diversified mining equipment failures, delays in supplies and loss of and concentrating operations, two smelting key inputs including electricity, water, coal, which complexes, the option of selling of concentrate to can cause prolonged mine or plant shutdowns or customers and access to multiple power sources.
A combined property damage and business interruption catastrophic insurance programme is in place which can provide protection from some of the financial impact of a major incident at the Groups main concentrating, smelting and refining facilities, and power stations.
Decisions made by the board of ENRC PLC could Kazakhmys monitors the business and financial Assets controlled by third have a material impact on the reported earnings performance of its 26% investment in ENRC PLC.
parties and joint ventures of Kazakhmys.
The board of ENRC PLC may take The Group has the ability to exercise its rights as Kazakhmys holds a 26% investment in ENRC actions which are inconsistent with the Groups the single largest shareholder of ENRC PLC and PLC.
The business and financial performance values and strategies.
Furthermore, changes in maintains an active dialogue with members of of this investment is not controlled by the Group.
market or macroeconomic conditions could impact ENRCs board and senior management.
Kazakhmys Furthermore in 2010, the Group has entered into the cash flows and the valuation of Kazakhmys seeks to ensure that the appropriate governance a joint venture arrangement in respect of the investment in ENRC PLC.
The Groups partner structures are in place to manage its power joint ownership and management of the Ekibastuz in the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture may have venture in accordance with the Groups business GRES-1 power station.
Kazakhmys has also engaged business interests inconsistent with those of the interests and that they are consistent with the outsourcing companies to manage certain Group Group and may exercise its right to block certain Groups policies and standards.
Under the terms of assets, principally engaged in the transportation of actions.
The partner may take actions which are the joint venture arrangement, Kazakhmys is entitled production materials by road and rail.
inconsistent with the Groups policies or standards.
to appoint the operational management of the Outsourcing companies may take actions which power plant until 2015, overseen by a supervisory are inconsistent with the Groups objectives or board consisting of representatives of both joint operating procedures, including the failure to venture partners.
Kazakhmys actively monitors the adequately maintain Kazakhmys assets.
performance of its outsourcing companies to ensure they fulfil their contractual obligations.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Operational risks Risk description Impact Action Projects may fail to achieve the desired economic Prior to an investment decision being made, new projects returns due to an inability to recover mineral certain activities are performed including, where The development of new projects involves reserves as planned and higher than expected appropriate, feasibility and other technical many risks including geological, engineering, capital and operating costs.
Projects may also fail studies.
The Group ensures that sufficient procurement, financing and regulatory risks.
to complete or suffer delays which may reduce expertise, from both in-house and third-party If the Group fails to adopt an appropriate future production volumes and result in a financial specialists, is utilised on projects throughout their procurement and project management strategy, loss to the Group.
A reduction in future production life cycle.
Furthermore, there are procedures in it may experience delays to project schedules volumes would also increase the cash cost on place addressing areas such as budgeting and and an increase in costs.
Regulatory risks include a per unit basis.
management of capital expenditure projects.
failures to obtain and maintain applicable permits, licences or approvals from the relevant authorities to perform certain works.
Kazakhmys may suffer shortages of skilled The Group actively monitors the market for specialist staff, mining workers and delays in obtaining mining equipment specialist staff and mining equipment and supplies equipment and supplies and supplies which limit the Groups ability to to remain competitive in the hiring of staff and Commodity price fluctuations can have an operate effectively.
The cost of staff, mining procurement of mining equipment and supplies.
impact on industry demand for specialist staff equipment and supplies may rise, thereby Kazakhmys has an extensive social programme for and mining equipment and supplies.
In periods increasing operating and capital costs which its employees and their dependents and invests of elevated commodity prices, competition for affect financial performance.
in training facilities and staff development to raise skilled personnel intensifies, both internationally skill levels.
The Group assesses opportunities and within Kazakhstan, and availability of mining for outsourcing which can bring in external equipment and supplies can be subject to long capabilities, and is currently assessing the lead times and cost inflation.
The remote location performance of pilot studies outsourcing aspects of some of the Groups operations also makes the of equipment maintenance.
Further details on attraction and retention of skilled staff at these measures to manage talent risk and improve sites more challenging.
personnel attraction and retention are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 35.
Changes to Kazakhstans foreign trade export The Government of Kazakhstan has actively Political risk and import, foreign investments, property, tax, pursued a programme of economic reform, Most of the Groups mining and power operations environmental and mining regimes or social helping to make it one of the most politically are in Kazakhstan.
Accordingly, the Group is responsibility expectations or other changes that stable and economically developed countries substantially dependent on the social, political, affect the supportive business environment in in Central Asia.
The Government of Kazakhstan economic, legal and fiscal conditions prevailing Kazakhstan could negatively affect the Groups has representation on the Board of Kazakhmys in Kazakhstan.
business, financial position and performance.
and is a significant shareholder in the Group.
The Board continues to view the political, social and economic environment within Kazakhstan favourably, and looking forward, remains optimistic about the conditions for business in the region.
Kazakhmys maintains a proactive dialogue with the Government of Kazakhstan across a range of issues, including taxation, the environment and community relations.
Changes in reserves could adversely impact The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources Reserves and resources mine plans and the economic viability of projects are published in accordance with the criteria Kazakhmys ore reserves for operating mines and resulting in economic losses, negatively impacting of the JORC Code and can be found on pages development projects are largely based on the the Groups financial position and performance.
Kazakhmys engages the services of estimation method for reserves and resources independent technical experts to annually convert established by the former Soviet Union.
There reserve and resource calculations for operating are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mines and development projects from the in-house ore reserves, and geological, technical and method established by the former Soviet Union economic assumptions that were valid at the to the method prescribed by the JORC Code.
In time of estimation may change significantly 2010, being five years since the audit of reserves when new information becomes available.
and resources was undertaken for the Listing, the Group engaged an independent technical expert to undertake an audit of reserves and resources.
The scope of the external audit is set out in the report of the independent competent person found on page 175.
A project is underway to digitise selected mine reserves which will be used in the future for determining estimates of reserves and resources and to support improved estimation of ore grades and mine planning.
For more info see page 171 www.
com Performance Review 14 Directors Report: Business Review Risk Factors continued Compliance risks Risk description Impact Action As many of Kazakhstans subsoil use laws have been The Groups management makes every effort to subsoil use rights adopted relatively recently, the legal consequences engage with the relevant regulatory authorities In Kazakhstan and certain other countries in which of a given breach may not be predictable.
However, and ensure compliance with all relevant legislation the Group operates, all subsoil reserves belong non-compliance with the requirements of subsoil and subsoil use contracts, and where the contract to the State.
Subsoil use rights are not granted in use contracts could potentially lead to regulatory is due for renewal, for example, Kazakhmys perpetuity, and any renewal must be agreed before challenges and subsequently to fines litigation, and Petroleums exploration licence, the Group the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
ultimately to the loss of operating licences.
The loss engages with relevant authorities to renew or Rights may be terminated if the Group does not of any of the Groups subsoil use rights could have extend the licence on equitable terms.
The Groups satisfy its licensing or contractual obligations, a material adverse effect on its mining operations.
procedures to ensure compliance with the terms which may include financial commitments to of subsoil contracts have been updated to State authorities and the satisfaction of mining, reflect the requirements of the new legislation.
development, environmental, social, health and A specialist department is also tasked with safety requirements.
Recent legislation relating monitoring compliance with the terms of the to subsoil use has come into force in Kazakhstan, subsoil use contracts.
which sets out stricter requirements on the performance of licence obligations, technical documentation, work programmes and the level of goods and services sourced from Kazakhstan.
A violation of environmental laws, or failure The Group has policies and procedures in place environmental compliance to comply with the instructions of the relevant which set out the required operating standards for The Group operates in an industry that is subject to authorities, could lead to the suspension of all employees.
Kazakhmys monitors its emissions numerous environmental laws and regulations.
As operating licences, challenges to subsoil use mining and in recent years has invested in reducing its regulatory standards and requirements continually rights, fines and penalties, the imposition of costly environmental impact including the construction of develop, the Group may be exposed to increased compliance procedures, reputational damage and the sulphuric acid plant at Balkhash and the ongoing compliance costs and environmental emission financial loss.
New or amended environmental programme to install electrostatic precipitators at charges.
Policies and measures at a national and legislation or regulations may result in increased the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant.
Further details international level to tackle climate change will operating costs, additional capital investment or, on the environmental measures being taken by the increasingly affect the business, presenting greater in the event of non-compliance, the possibility of Group are set out in the Corporate Responsibility environmental and regulatory risks.
fines, penalties or other actions which may adversely Report commencing on page 35. affect Kazakhmys financial results and reputation.
Emissions charges in Kazakhstan have been increased over recent years and the authorities are adopting an increasingly robust stance on compliance with environmental standards.
For more info see page 35 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Financial risks Risk description Impact Action Commodity prices can fluctuate widely and The Group keeps under regular review its Commodity prices could have a material impact on the Groups sensitivity to fluctuations in commodity prices.
The Groups normal policy is to sell its products asset values, revenues, earnings, cash flows The Group does not as a matter of course hedge under contract at prices determined by reference and growth prospects.
commodity prices, but may enter into a hedge to prevailing market prices on international global programme for certain commodities where the metal exchanges.
Kazakhmys financial results are Board determines it is in the Groups interest to strongly influenced by commodity prices which are provide greater certainty over future cash flows, dependent on a number of factors, including world as was the case in 2009.
The Group adopts supply and demand and investor sentiment.
In a prudent approach in its financial planning particular, Kazakhmys is exposed to demand from reflecting the volatility in commodity prices.
China, a major consumer of the metals in which the Group operates.
Due to these factors, commodity prices may be subject to significant fluctuations, which could have a positive or negative impact on the Groups financial results.
For more info see page 60 Failure to manage financing risks could have The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining Liquidity risk a material impact on the Groups cash flows, adequate committed borrowing facilities and The Group is exposed to liquidity risks, including earnings and financial position as well as reducing working capital funds.
The Board monitors the risk that borrowing facilities are not available to the funds available to the Group for working the net debt level of the Group taking into meet cash requirements, and the risk that financial capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends consideration the expected outlook of the Groups assets cannot readily be converted to cash without and other general corporate purposes.
financial position, cash flows and future capital the loss of value.
The Group has also secured funding for Bozshakol and selected medium-sized projects.
Further details are set out in the Financial Review on page 58.
For more info see page 61 The uncertainty of interpretation and application, The Group makes every effort to comply with taxation and the evolution, of tax laws create a risk of existing tax legislation, and works closely with As the tax legislation in Kazakhstan has been additional and substantial payments of tax by the Government and tax authorities in the review in force for a relatively short period of time, tax the Group, which could have a material adverse of proposed amendments to tax legislation and risks in Kazakhstan are substantially greater than effect on the Groups cash flows, earnings and regulation.
Further details on the Groups tax typically found in countries with more developed financial position.
strategy and risk management are set out in the tax systems.
Tax law is evolving and is subject to Financial Review on page 58. different and changing interpretations, as well as inconsistent enforcement.
Tax regulation and compliance is subject to review and investigation by the authorities who may impose severe fines, penalties and interest charges.
For more info see page 58 www.
com Performance Review A E S N A I P S A C 16 Directors Report: Business Review our operations A diversified business based in Kazakhstan Copper and Power Petroleum mKm other metals EBITDA excluding EBITDA excluding EBITDA excluding special special items : $144 million special items : $ 1 million items : $81 million EBITDA excluding special items : $1,715 million Kazakhmys Power owns a Kazakhmys Petroleum MKM operates from Hettstedt, Germany 50% stake in Kazakhstans has exploration rights to and produces copper and copper alloy Kazakhmys Copper is 2 largest power plant a 602 km block, located wires, flats, tubes and bars for the key a fully integrated business Ekibastuz GRES-1.
The to the south of Aktobe in industries of automotive, construction comprising underground station supplies 14% of western Kazakhstan.
MKM and open pit mines, the Kazakhstan market is currently an asset held for sale.
concentrating and smelting and sells some power to complexes, refining facilities, Russia.
The station has a enRC PLC coal mines, captive power current capacity of 2,500 MW, stations and over 1,100 km EBITDA excluding special with a potential capacity of railway.
Zinc, silver items : $903 million of 4,000 MW.
and gold are produced Kazakhmys holds a 26% interest in in significant quantities ENRC PLC, a diversified, integrated as by-products.
natural resources group of mining, processing, energy, logistical and marketing operations in Kazakhstan, Russia, China, South America and Africa.
For more info see page 17 For more info see page 28 For more info see page 32 For more info see pages 33 and 34 our locations Copper and other metals Coal mines Power Petroleum Growth projects Bozshakol Artemyevsky YubileynoKazakhstan Nikolayevsky Ekibastuz Snegirikhinsky Orlovsky Central Mukur Maikuben Mizek Astana Irtyshsky Molodezhny Nurkazgan Abyz Karaganda Kusheki Region Akbastau Kosmurun North East Region East Annensky Eastern Stepnoy South Aktogay Akzhar Balkhash Konyrat Zhezkazgan Sayak Complex Complex Zhomart ARAL SEA Almaty Shatyrkul Bozymchak Kyrgyzstan Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 KAzAKHmys CoPPeR market highlights market overview The recovery in demand for commodities in 2010 saw Strong demand for copper from the average LME cash price for copper increase by 46% key markets and supply remains tight compared to 2009, reaching historic price highs.
The performance of the Groups other metals was also strong, Average copper price up 46% with average prices in 2010 exceeding those in 2009.
1 Improved pricing environment for Average price growth in 2010 by-products Copper 46% Sales contracts for 2011 in place Zinc 30% Silver 37% Key achievements Gold 26% Copper production 303 kt 1 Average price quoted on the LME and LBMA exchanges EBITDA $1,715 million compared to 2009. excluding special items Source: Metalprices.
com Demand for industrial metals, such as copper and zinc, was Solid operational performance, met mainly driven by the recovery in the worlds major economies or exceeded production targets which are forecast to both record gross domestic product and industrial production growth in 2010.
In particular, China Maintained competitive cost position expanded its consumption of industrial metal with urbanisation and infrastructure investment, which is also likely to underpin Strong cash generation in 2010, industrial metal demand in the medium term.
Precious metals saw high capital inflows, reflecting investors concerns over 67% growth in EBITDA excluding inflation, private and sovereign debt levels and high special items unemployment in the mature economies.
growth project highlights Global rened copper consumption kt Funding of $2.7 billion secured 12 20,996 for growth projects 11 20,171 10 Feasibility study at Bozshakol 19,303 09 17,492 to complete by the end of 2011 08 17,985 Aktogay moving to feasibility stage 07 17,944 06 17,410 Actual Estimate Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company Copper market overview The copper market performed strongly in 2010 with the LME copper price trading in a range of $6,091 to $9,740 per tonne, and averaging $7,539 per tonne, a 46% gain on the prior year.
The growth in copper prices reflects the robust demand growth, which, due to inflexibility in supply, has resulted in a supply deficit in 2010.
Copper inventory levels at exchange warehouses, which are often closely correlated with the supply and demand balance, fell by 21% over 2010, to 0.5 MT.
com Performance Review 18 Directors Report: Business Review our operations continued Government policies and incentives supported construction Copper price and exchange inventories across the country, encouraged new car and white goods $ t kt purchases, thereby generating demand for copper.
10,000 1,000 In the second half of 2010, the Chinese Government 7,500 800 introduced tighter monetary policy and reduced support for the real estate sector which may slow the rate of economic 5,000 600 and industrial production growth in 2011.
Despite these measures, Brook Hunt has forecast that Chinese refined 2,500 400 consumption will increase by 7% in 2011, backed by ongoing urbanisation and infrastructure projects such as upgrades and 0 200 expansions to the domestic power network.
Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec The recovery in demand for copper from Europe, including the 2010 LME price 2010 exchange inventories CIS, exceeded expectations in 2010 with the consumption of 2009 LME price refined copper forecast to be 13% higher than in 2009.
com: Bloomberg strongest performing country was Germany where industrial Global refined copper consumption is estimated to have grown production expanded by 9% with increased construction by 10% in 2010 to 19.3 MT, with the majority of the expansion activity and with the manufacturing sector benefiting from in demand coming from China, a key market for Kazakhmys higher exports and a rise in vehicle production.
Copper consumption in the Groups other major growth of 4% is forecast from this region in 2011 but copper market, Europe, including the CIS, also grew in 2010. consumption levels are still expected to remain well below those seen in 2008 and 2007.
2010 global rened copper consumption Europe including CIS rened copper consumption kt Western Europe 16% China 38% 12 United States of 4,581 America 9% 11 4,563 Rest of the World 37% 10 4,372 09 3,861 08 4,957 07 5,243 Source: Brook Hunt Actual Estimate A Wood Mackenzie Company Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company In the period since 2000, China has increased its refined copper Despite the copper price reaching historic highs in 2010, consumption by an average of 15% per annum, including an there was only minimal growth in the supply of refined copper.
China now accounts for 38% of the Total copper production from mines is forecast to have grown worlds refined copper consumption compared to 12% in 2000, by 1% in 2010, consistent with the low growth in copper considerably ahead of the second highest consumer of copper, production over the past six years.
Copper supply has proven the United States, at 9% of global consumption.
to be particularly inflexible, with producers facing declining reserves and metal grades.
The copper supply deficit seen Chinese rened copper consumption kt in 2010 is expected to continue throughout 2011.
12 8,436 Total copper mine production kt 11 7,884 10 7,368 12 17,875 09 6,520 11 16,457 08 5,100 10 16,231 07 4,670 09 16,041 06 08 3,967 15,745 07 15,604 Actual Estimate 06 15,136 Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company Actual Estimate Chinese copper consumption in 2010 was supported by the expanding domestic economy as gross domestic Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company product rose by 10% and industrial production grew by 14%.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Kazakhmys Copper will maintain a presence in both the Gold price $ oz Chinese and European markets in 2011 by selling to traders and end users.
Kazakhmys Copper has contracted the 1,500 majority of its 2011 copper cathode and rod production under annual agreements.
The pricing of sales is based on 1,250 the LME price plus a premium to reflect the terms of trade.
1,000 zinc market overview The zinc price averaged $2,159 per tonne on the LME in 750 2010, 30% above the average price in 2009 of $1,659 per tonne.
There has been a surplus supply of zinc metal since 500 2008 which limited the metals upward price movement in Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec 2010 compared to supply constrained commodities such as 2010 LBMA price 2009 LBMA price copper.
In 2010, zinc inventories held at the LME increased Source: Metalprices.
com from 489 kt to 701 kt and the zinc price finished the year at $2,433 per tonne, slightly below the 2009 year end price Investment demand is expected to be the main driver of of $2,570 per tonne.
gold prices in 2011 as sovereign debt concerns in Europe continue, interest rates remain low and the ongoing threat Zinc price and LME inventories of rising inflation.
Given the dependence on investment $ t kt demand, the gold price could be vulnerable to changes 2,400 850 in investor sentiment.
In 2011, Kazakhmys Copper will mainly sell gold to European 1,800 700 traders under annual contracts based on the LBMA price at the time of delivery.
1,200 550 silver market overview The price of silver rose rapidly across the second half of 2010, 600 400 finishing the year at $30.63 per ounce, 80% above the 2009 Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec closing price of $16.99 per ounce.
Year on year, the average 2010 LME inventories 2010 LME price 2009 LME price LBMA price was 37% higher at $20.14 per ounce.
com The performance of silver in 2010 was principally due to investment demand, which like gold, was supported by Global demand for zinc is estimated to have increased by concerns over the robustness of the economic recovery 14% in 2010 with growth in Europe and Asia including China.
which offset the physical supply surplus for the metal.
Zinc, which is heavily used in the construction and automobile Industrial demand also rose by an estimated 13% in 2010, industries to galvanise steel, benefited from the growth in the first time in five years that an increase in industrial the Chinese construction sector and increased global demand has been recorded.
The combination of investment automotive production.
Whilst zinc consumption grew demand and modest growth in the industrial usage of silver in 2010, considerable supply capacity was closed in 2008 is expected to support prices in 2011. and 2009 which, in response to the pricing seen during 2010, has recommenced.
The supply surplus in the zinc market Silver price $ oz is forecast to remain in 2011, although continued growth in demand from developing economies is expected.
30 Kazakhmys has concluded its contracts for 2011 and will sell zinc concentrate within Kazakhstan and into China 20 based on the LME price less processing charges.
gold market overview 10 The LBMA gold price averaged $1,224 per ounce in 2010, 26% above the average price in 2009.
Gold was a safe haven from the uncertainty over the prospects for the global economic 0 recovery, especially the risk of inflation.
As in 2009, the gold Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec price was mainly supported by investment demand, particularly 2010 LBMA price 2009 LBMA price from India and China, with investment capital estimated to Source: Metalprices.
com account for around 31% of the demand for gold in 2010.
Kazakhmys will sell its 2011 silver production to both The gold price trended upwards throughout the year from European end users and traders, principally under annual $1,104 per ounce at the start of 2010, reaching $1,406 per contracts based on the LBMA price at the time of delivery.
com Performance Review 20 Directors Report: Business Review our operations continued Kazakhmys Copper continued Review of Kazakhmys Copper Production of copper cathodes from own concentrate was Copper production summary 2% above the prior year when 22.7 kt of copper in concentrate was sold to third parties on a trial basis, rather than being kt unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 processed into copper cathode.
In 2010, Kazakhmys Copper Ore output 32,935 32,409 maintained sufficient smelting capacity at the Zhezkazgan and Balkhash complexes so sales of copper concentrate Copper grade % 1.09 1.18 were not required.
The internal processing of all copper Copper in concentrate from concentrate produced will continue in 2011, with no sales own production 335 359 of copper concentrate being planned.
Copper cathodes from own concentrate 303 298 Copper cathode equivalent production from own concentrate, Copper cathode equivalent from which includes copper concentrate sales, was 5% below 2009 own concentrate 303 320 levels mainly due to the reduced copper grade recorded in 2010 and the processing of stockpiled ore in 2009.
Copper cathodes from purchased concentrate 3 6 Own copper cathode equivalent production in 2011 is expected to be consistent with 2010 levels, although ore Copper rod production 35 10 extraction volumes are expected to increase as the copper 1 ore grade declines.
Includes cathode converted into rod.
2 Includes copper sold as concentrate and cathode converted into rod.
Ore output in 2010 was 2% above the prior year as the West Nurkazgan mine, which commenced operation as an underground mine in February 2009, ramped up and contributed a full year of production in 2010.
Output from the Abyz mine was also higher in 2010 as the mine was closed for stripping work in the first half of 2009.
Within the Zhezkazgan Complex, the Zhomart mine benefited from the delivery of new mining equipment and the West mine, closed in 2009 for economic reasons, re-opened in response to the attractive pricing environment.
In the East Region, progress was made with backfilling work at the Artemyevsky mine.
These production gains were partially offset by a decline in output from the North mine with the closure of the Taskora open pit in December 2009 and as extensive stripping work was conducted at the mine during the first four months of 2010.
The average copper grade in 2010 fell to 1.09% from 1.18% in 2009.
The fall in grades reflects the transfer of operations to lower grade sections of the Orlovsky mine in the East Region and declining grades from the maturing mines in the Zhezkazgan Region.
The decline in ore grade, partially offset by the increase in ore extraction, resulted in a 6% reduction in copper metal in ore extracted in 2010.
Own copper in concentrate production in 2010 benefited from the reprocessing of waste material from the Balkhash furnaces and converters and the processing of limited volumes of stockpiled ore, in particular, from the Akbastau and Kosmurun mines.
In the prior year, a greater volume of stockpiled ore was processed, which, together with the lower ore grades in 2010, led to a 7% decline in copper in concentrate output.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Copper rod is produced from cathode to order, mainly for following progress made with backfilling work.
The average zinc customers in China.
Volumes increased markedly in 2010 as grade also improved in 2010 as higher grade ore was mined at the premiums available justified the allocation of a greater the Orlovsky and Artemyevsky mines.
volume of cathodes for conversion into rod.
Similar volumes The greater volume of zinc containing ore extracted and zinc of copper rod are planned to be produced in 2011. grades in 2010 contributed to a 21% increase in zinc metal zinc production summary in ore mined, offsetting the benefit from the processing of stockpiled ore in the prior year.
Output in 2010 was also kt unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 assisted by operational improvements at the Orlovsky and Zinc grade % 4.58 4.15 Nikolayevsky concentrators raising their recovery rates.
Zinc metal in concentrate production in 2010 was 12% above the Zinc in concentrate 167 149 comparative period.
Zinc metal 9 Zinc in concentrate production in 2011 is expected to be slightly below the production volumes achieved in 2010.
The volume of zinc containing ore extracted in 2010 was 10% The zinc metal production in 2009 reflects the running down above the prior year with increased ore extraction from the Abyz of work in progress that was held at the zinc refinery prior mine, which had been closed for stripping work during the first to it being suspended in early 2009.
There are no plans half of 2009, and higher ore output from the Artemyevsky mine to reopen the refinery in 2011.
Realising our potential oP e RA t ing e FF i C ien t L y A n D R e s P onsi BL y the post of Chief operating officer was established in February 2011. the post was introduced to manage the operational and technical development and performance of the group.
the role also includes management of health and safety and exploration.
The immediate focus is to improve our health and safety performance and ensure that safe production is seen as the first sign of sound management.
There are some key operational improvements underway, including raising sergei Diachenko, equipment effectiveness and installed capacity utilisation, Chief Operating Officer driving workplace standards and continuing to raise recovery rates.
Sergei Diachenko was appointed Chief Operating Officer in February 2011.
Sergei A major work-stream over the medium term is the is a graduate of St Petersburg Mining Institute, replenishment and expansion of mineral reserves and the Russian Academy of Sciences and the a value-driven approach to mine planning.
The 2011 Gordon Business Institute, Pretoria University.
exploration programme will assist with the first task and Sergei started his career 25 years ago at Apatit, there is a separate project, which will focus on enhancing the largest phosphate company in the Soviet both annual and strategic mine planning.
Union and subsequently worked at Rio Tinto Alongside this work, we are building momentum to bring and fide Beers.
the mid-size projects into construction and production within the next five years.
com Performance Review 22 Directors Report: Business Review our operations continued Kazakhmys Copper continued Precious metals production summary Karagaily concentrators and a net decrease in silver work in progress at the smelters.
2010 2009 Silver production is expected to be slightly lower in 2011 Average silver grade g t 20.06 20.62 as grades from the maturing mines in Zhezkazgan continue Silver own production koz 14,093 16,894 to decline.
Average gold grade g t 0.73 0.66 The gold ore grade benefited from operations resuming at the Abyz mine after it was closed for stripping work during Gold own production koz 127 135 the first half of 2009.
Higher grades were also achieved at the Artemyevsky and Orlovsky mines.
For these reasons, The silver ore grade was in line with the prior year as the gold metal in ore was 24% above 2009 levels.
decrease in ore grades from the maturing mines in the Gold production was 6% below the prior year despite the Zhezkazgan Region was offset by higher grades from East higher gold metal in ore mined as output in 2009 benefited Region mines, in particular at the Artemyevsky mine.
from the processing of stockpiled ore.
Underlying silver metal in ore output was broadly consistent in 2009 and 2010, although silver granule production was Gold production in 2011 is expected to be similar to the 17% below the prior year as output in 2009 benefited from levels achieved in 2010 as Abyzs production will be impacted the processing of ore stockpiles at the Nurkazgan and by ongoing mine development work.
Realising our potential P RogRessing ouR PRoJeCt PiPeLine the creation of the Project team enabled Kazakhmys to bring the management of all significant projects into a single area.
Establishing the Project Team has allowed the Group to attract skilled individuals, develop greater internal skills for major project management and to improve the selection and management of key partnerships and contractors.
mian Khalil, The Project Team considers Kazakhmys as a Head of Projects customer, with the aim of producing the best value solutions to each project.
A significant Mian Khalil was appointed Head of Projects aim and benefit of the department is for Kazakhmys in January 2010.
Mian is the transfer of knowledge and management a graduate of Civil Engineering from the over time, from international experts West Pakistan University of Engineering to local employees.
and Technology with a Masters in Structural Engineering from Stanford, USA.
Mian There are now over 60 members in the has worked on mining projects across the department.
The projects handled by world.
He held the position of Executive the team include the major Aktogay and Vice President Capital Programme Group Bozshakol projects, each of which is at Lonmin and Vice President Project managed by separate units.
Development Services at BHP Billiton.
The latter role included the development of phase 4 at Escondida, the largest copper mine in the world.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010
