70 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2011 Annual General Meeting ii otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this resolution, of Keller Group plc incorporated and registered in England and up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,215,774 such Wales with company number 02442580 the Company will amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount be held at the offices of RBS Hoare Govett Limited, 250 of Relevant Securities allotted pursuant to paragraph i of Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA on 17 May 2011 at 11.00 am this resolution in excess of 2,215,774, provided that for the following purposes: unless previously revoked, varied or renewed these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this of which resolutions 1- 9 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolution or on 17 August 2012 whichever is the earlier, resolutions and resolutions 10-12 inclusive will be proposed as save that, in each case, the Company shall be entitled to special resolutions.
In accordance with the Companys articles of make any offer or agreement before the expiry of the association, resolutions 1, 2 and 4 -11 inclusive shall be ordinary authority which would or might require Relevant Securities business and resolutions 3 and 12 shall be special business.
to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot Relevant Securities pursuant to any such 1.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the year ended offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
31 December 2010, together with the reports of the directors In this resolution, Relevant Securities means shares in of the Company the Directors and the auditors thereon.
the Company or rights to subscribe for or to convert any 2.
To declare a final dividend of 15.2p per ordinary share, such security into shares in the Company: a reference to the dividend to be paid on 27 May 2011 to members on the allotment of Relevant Securities includes the grant of register at the close of business on 6 May 2011. such a right: and a reference to the nominal amount of a Relevant Security which is a right to subscribe for or to 3.
To approve the report on Directors remuneration for the year convert any security into shares in the Company is to the ended 31 December 2010. nominal amount of the shares which may be allotted pursuant to that right.
To re-elect as a Director Mr Justin Atkinson, who retires by rotation.
All previous authorisations given by the Company in General Meeting or otherwise pursuant to section 551 of 5.
To re-elect as a Director Mr Gerry Brown, who retires the Act are hereby revoked to the extent not previously by rotation.
To elect as a Director Ms Ruth Cairnie, who has been 10.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 9 above, the appointed since the last Annual General Meeting.
Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant 7.
To elect as a Director Mr Chris Girling, who has been to section 570 and section 573 of the Act to allot equity appointed since the last Annual General Meeting.
securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash and to sell Ordinary Shares held by the Company as 8.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company treasury shares for cash pursuant to the authorities conferred and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
by resolution 9 as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to 9.
THAT the Directors be and are hereby generally and any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of limited to: the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers i in respect of the authority conferred by resolution 9 i, the of the Company to allot Relevant Securities: allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares in i comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 1 connection with a rights issue as defined in the Listing of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of Rules published by the Financial Services Authority : 4,431,549 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate a to holders of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the nominal amount of Relevant Securities allotted pursuant to Company in proportion as nearly as practicable to paragraph ii of this resolution in connection with a rights the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by issue as defined in the Listing Rules published by the them: and Financial Services Authority : b to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the a to holders of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company, as required by the rights of those securities Company in proportion as nearly as practicable to the or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them: consider necessary, and but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the b to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to Company, as required by the rights of those securities treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or any or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or consider necessary, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as and the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation ii the allotment of equity securities whether by way of a to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or rights issue, open offer or otherwise or sale of treasury any legal or practical problems under the laws of any shares pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph ii territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or of resolution 9 in each case, otherwise than pursuant to stock exchange: and paragraph i of this resolution up to an aggregate nominal amount of 332,366: Keller Group plc 71 and unless previously revoked, varied or renewed this Notes authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 1.
Resolution 1 Accounts and reports General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this A public company is required to lay its annual accounts and resolution or on 17 August 2012 whichever is the earlier, report at a General Meeting under the Companies Act 2006 the save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer Act.
The accounts, the report of the Directors and the report of or agreement which would or might require equity securities to the Companys auditors on the accounts are contained within the be allotted or treasury shares to be sold for cash after such Annual Report and Accounts.
expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash pursuant to any such offer or 2.
Resolution 3 Directors remuneration agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Under the Act, officially listed companies are required to put an ordinary resolution to shareholders on the Directors remuneration All previous authorisations given by the Company in General report at the General Meeting of the Company before which the Meeting or otherwise pursuant to section 570 and 573 of the accounts are laid.
Act are hereby revoked to the extent not previously exercised.
Resolutions 4 and 5 Re-election of Directors 11.
THAT, pursuant to section 701 of the Act, the Company be The Companys articles of association require that at every Annual and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to General Meeting one third of the Directors who are subject to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 retirement by rotation or, if their number is not three or a multiple of the Act of up to in aggregate 6,647,323 of its own Ordinary of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third shall Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary retire from office.
Mr Justin Atkinson will retire by rotation and will Shares representing 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary offer himself for re-election.
Mr Gerry Brown, who has now served Share capital at the date of this notice provided that: for nine years on the Board, will also retire and offer himself for re-election.
Following performance evaluations, the Chairman i the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary has confirmed that both Directors performance continues to Share is the higher of: a an amount equal to not more be effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment than 5% above the average of the middle market to their roles.
quotations for the Ordinary Shares taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 4.
Resolutions 6 and 7 Election of Directors days immediately preceding the day on which the The Companys articles of association require that any Director purchase is made exclusive of expenses payable by the appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting shall stand Company : and b an amount equal to the higher of the for election by the members at the next Annual General Meeting.
price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share Accordingly, Ms Ruth Cairnie and Mr Chris Girling will seek election and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary by the members, as unanimously recommended by the Board.
Share on the trading venue where the purchase is Brief biographical details of all Directors standing for election are carried out: set out on pages 16 and 17 of the Companys Annual Report and ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be Accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2010. paid for an Ordinary Share is 10p, 5.
Resolution 8 Re-appointment of auditors and auditors and unless previously revoked, varied or renewed the remuneration authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the Under the Act, the auditors of a company must be re-appointed conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the at each General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
Company after the passing of this resolution, except that the Resolution 8 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract for the existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Under the purchase of its own shares under which such purchase would Act, the remuneration of an auditor must be fixed by the or may require to be completed or executed wholly or partly shareholders by ordinary resolution or in such manner as the after the expiration of this authority and may make a purchase shareholders by ordinary resolution determine.
Resolution 8 gives of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract as if the authority to the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
said authority had not expired.
Resolutions 9 and 10 Authority to allot shares and 12.
THAT a General Meeting of the Company other than an disapplication of pre-emption rights Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than Under the Act, the Directors may only allot shares if authorised 14 days notice.
to do so under section 551 of the Act.
Section 561 of the Act By order of the Board prevents allotments of equity securities for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, Jackie Holman Registered office: unless the Directors are specifically authorised to do otherwise.
Secretary Capital House, 25 Chapel Street This gives existing shareholders what are known as pre-emption 28 February 2011 London NW1 5DH rights.
Under resolution 9 i, the Directors will be able to issue new shares up to a nominal amount of 4,431,549, which is equal to approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 28 February 2011, to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings in connection with a rights issue as defined in the Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
This amount shall be reduced to the extent that any shares are allotted under the authority granted by resolution 9 ii.
72 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued Additionally, resolution 9 ii will give the Directors the authority 9.
Record date to issue shares up to a nominal amount of 2,215,774, which Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of is equal to approximately one-third of the Companys issued the Company as at 6.00 pm on 15 May 2011 or, in the event that Ordinary Share capital at 28 February 2011.
This amount shall the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members as at 6.00 pm be reduced to the extent that any shares are allotted pursuant to on the date that is two days before the time of any adjourned the authority granted by resolution 9 i in excess of 2,215,774. meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that Under resolution 10 i, the Directors will be able to issue shares time.
Changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00 pm for cash, other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their on 15 May 2011 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, existing holdings, in connection with a rights issue as defined in after 6.00 pm on the date that is two days before the time of any the Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Under resolution 10 ii, the Directors will be able to issue shares for cash, other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their 10.
Proxies existing holdings, up to a maximum nominal amount of 332,366, 10a A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more persons as representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary proxies to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak Share capital at 28 February 2011.
This is intended to ensure that and vote at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more existing shareholders are provided with an element of protection.
than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a The Board has no current plans to allot Ordinary Shares and does different share or shares held by him.
A proxy need not be a not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital, member of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy will not other than in respect of a rights issue, in any three-year period.
preclude a shareholder from attending and voting in person at the meeting if he so wishes.
To appoint more than one proxy The authority sought by resolutions 9 and 10 will expire at the shareholders will need to complete a separate proxy form for conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the each proxy.
Copies of additional proxy forms can be obtained passing of these resolutions, but could be varied or withdrawn from the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, by by agreement of shareholders at an intervening General Meeting.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Resolution 11 Purchase of the Companys own shares costs may vary.
The Equiniti overseas helpline number is This resolution grants a limited authority to the Company to 44 121 415 7047.
Alternatively, shareholders may purchase through the market up to 10% of its issued share capital.
photocopy the form of proxy indicating on each copy the The resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which name of the proxy to be appointed and the number of shares the Ordinary Shares may be bought at the date of the notice.
The in respect of which the proxy is appointed.
A failure to specify authority sought will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual the number of shares to which each proxy appointment General Meeting following the passing of this resolution.
relates or specifying a number in excess of those held by the shareholder may result in the proxy appointment being 8.
Resolution 12 Calling a General Meeting on invalid.
The total votes cast and in respect whereof 14 days notice abstention is recorded by a shareholder or his duly appointed This resolution is intended to allow the Company to take proxies may not, in aggregate, exceed the total number of advantage of an opt-out in the EU Shareholder Rights Directive the votes exercisable by that shareholder in respect of Directive 2007 36 EC, which will allow the Company to retain a Ordinary Shares of which he is the holder.
All forms of proxy 14-day notice period for Company meetings other than Annual should be returned together in the same envelope.
Under the Directive, listed companies must Shareholders can only appoint a proxy using the procedures provide 21 days notice of a General Meeting, unless the Company set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
The offers the facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means that right of a shareholder under section 324 of the Act to appoint is accessible to all shareholders, and shareholders have approved a proxy does not apply to a person nominated to enjoy the holding of General Meetings on 14 clear days notice.
Passing information rights under section 146 of the Act.
resolution 12 will mean that the Company can call a meeting other 10b A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid, it must be than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice, completed, signed and sent to the offices of the Companys provided that it offers the facility for shareholders to vote by registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, electronic means at any such meeting.
The Company intends to Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL so as to arrive no later than use this authority in limited circumstances for time-sensitive 11.00 am on 13 May 2011 or, in the event that the meeting matters and where a shorter notice period would, in the Boards is adjourned, no later than 48 hours before the time of any opinion, be merited in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Keller Group plc 73 10c CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 11.
Nominated Persons through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy Manual on the Euroclear website www.
information rights under section 146 of the Act a Nominated CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by a members and those CREST members who have appointed Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take agreement between him and the member by whom he was the appropriate action on their behalf.
nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly as to the exercise of voting rights.
It is important for any authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Nominated Person to remember that his main contact in terms Limiteds specifications and must contain the information of his investment remains as it was for example, the registered required for such instructions, as described in the CREST shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes investment on the Nominated Persons behalf.
Therefore any the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the changes or queries relating to a Nominated Persons personal instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, details and holding including any administration thereof must in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by continue to be directed to that Nominated Persons existing the issuers agent ID RA19 by no later than 11.00 am on contact at his investment manager or custodian.
No such message received through the CREST cannot guarantee dealing with matters that are directed to it in network after this time will be accepted.
The only exception to this is where the Company, in the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined exercising one of its powers under the Act, writes to a Nominated by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Person directly for a response.
Applications Host from which the registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 12.
Multiple corporate representatives prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of 12a A member which is a corporation is entitled to appoint more instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be than one corporate representative and all of those appointed communicated to the appointee through other means.
can attend the meeting of the Company.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 12b In accordance with the provisions of the Act, each such sponsors or voting service provider s should note that representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
individual member of the Company, provided that they do not Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the to nominate a designated corporate representative.
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member 13.
Website publication of audit concerns or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service A shareholder or shareholders having a right to vote at the provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting meeting and holding at least 5% of the total voting rights of the service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary Company see note 16 below, or at least 100 shareholders to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the having a right to vote at the meeting and holding, on average, CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, at least 100 of paid up share capital, may require the Company CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter that sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in such shareholders propose to raise at the meeting relating to particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning either the audit of the Companys accounts including the practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting or any circumstances connected with an The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in accordance with Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. section 527 of the Act.
74 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued Any such request must: 16.
Issued share capital As at 28 February 2011, being the latest practicable date prior a identify the statement to which it relates, by either setting out to the publication of this document, the Companys issued share the statement in full or, if supporting a statement requested by capital consists of 66,473,235 Ordinary Shares, carrying one another shareholder, clearly identifying the statement which is vote each.
As the Company holds 2,162,527 Ordinary Shares being supported: in treasury, in respect of which it cannot exercise any votes, the total voting rights in the Company as at 28 February 2011 are b comply with the requirements set out in note 14 below: and 64,310,708. c be received by the Company at least one week before the 17.
Information available on the Companys website meeting.
Where the Company is required to publish such a The following information is, or will be, available on the statement on its website: Companys website www.
co. uk, as required by section i it may not require the shareholders making the request to 311A of the Act: i the contents of this notice of the meeting: ii pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying the total number of Ordinary Shares, in respect of which members with the request: are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting: iii the total voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the meeting ii it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors in respect of the Ordinary Shares: and iv any members no later than the time when it makes the statement statements, members resolutions or members matters of available on the website: and business received by the Company after the date of this notice.
iii the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the meeting.
Documents available for inspection Copies of all the Directors service contracts, letters of appointment or memoranda of the terms thereof: the register 14.
Methods of making requests of interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company: and Any request by a shareholder or shareholders to require the the articles of association will be available for inspection at the Company to publish audit concerns as set out in note 13 above: registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the a may be made either: date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting i in hard copy, by sending it to The Secretary, Keller Group and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual plc, 12th Floor, Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during NW1 5DH: or the meeting.
Communications with the Company marked for the attention of The Secretary or to Except as provided above, shareholders who wish to info@keller.
co. uk please state Keller Group plc: AGM communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should in the subject line of the email : do so using the following means: b must state the full name s and address es of the a calling our shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2264: calls shareholder s : and to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT c where the request is made in hard copy form or by fax must landline: other telephony costs may vary.
Lines are open be signed by the shareholder s. from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
The Equiniti overseas helpline number is 44 121 415 7047: or 15.
Questions b writing to the Companys registrars at Equiniti Limited, Aspect Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
accordance with section 319A of the Act.
The Company must No other methods of communication will be accepted.
Any cause to be answered at the meeting any such question unless: electronic communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or Equiniti Limited which is found to contain a virus will not a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for be accepted by the Company, but every effort will be made the meeting or would involve the disclosure of confidential by the Company to inform the shareholder of the rejected information: communication.
b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or Directors biographical details are set out on pages 16 and 17. c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
