Statutory reports and financial statements Glossary ABB Gaming Machines Association of British Bookmakers.
Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including old FOBT content and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 Adjusted Cost per Acquisition Gambling Act.
Total of all online and offline recruitment marketing spend including promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, all GREaT Foundation GREaT affiliate expenses relating to deals where affiliates are paid a A charity that funds treatment, education and research related one-off fee for each sign-up and all bonus costs except those to problem gambling.
relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by the Gross Win aggregate number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission sources and the number of real money sign-ups through affiliates i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
that are paid a one-off fee.
Net Revenue AMLD amusement machine licence duty Gross win less fair value adjustments e. g. fair value of An annual duty payment relating to gaming machines.
The rate of reward points, free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT duty payable varies according to machine category.
Average Monthly Active Player Days OddsOn!
The sum of, for all Unique Active Players in the period, the number Ladbrokes' Loyalty scheme which awards customers with a point of days they have played during the period.
for every amount staked Over the Counter.
These points are then Bet in Play accumulated and can be redeemed for free bets, odds Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes enhancements or win bonuses.
Operating profit Category B2 gaming machine Profit before finance costs and tax.
Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum prize Operating margin of 500.
Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net revenue.
Category B3 gaming machine OTC Gaming machine with maximum stake of 1 and maximum prize Over the Counter.
Real Money Sign-up Cost per Acquisition A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an Total of all online and offline marketing spend including account with the Company.
To address the issues posed by promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate shared wallets, customers are categorised between lines of expenses relating to deals where affiliates are paid a one-off fee business according to where they first register on the gaming site.
for each sign-up and all bonus costs except those relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by the aggregate of SIS Satellite Information Services the number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate sources and Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television the number of real money sign-ups through affiliates that are paid programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the a one-off fee.
UK, Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
EBITDA Unique Active Player Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the period.
FOBTs or Fixed Odds Betting Terminals Computerised machines which allow players to bet on the Yield per Unique Active Player outcome of various games and events with fixed odds, including Net Gaming Revenue divided by the number of Unique Active roulette.
Also referred to as B2 machines.
Gambling Act The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing gambling regulations in Great Britain.
GamCare A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those with gambling-related problems.
Gambling Commission Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, as well as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 6 Designed and produced by Merchant.
Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and is certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The papers used for the production of this report are certified by the Forest Stewardship Council.
Imperial House Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
