COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 63 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Legal status and activities Lamprell plc the Company was incorporated and registered on 4 July 2006 in the Isle of Man as a public company limited by shares under the Isle of Man Companies Acts with the registered number 117101C.
The Company acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership in Lamprell Energy Limited LEL from Lamprell Holdings Limited LHL, under a share for share exchange agreement dated 25 September 2006 and this transaction was accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the uniting of interests method Note 29.
The Company was admitted to the Alternative Investment Market AIM of the London Stock Exchange with effect from 16 October 2006.
From 6 November 2008, the Company moved from AIM and was admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE plcs main market for listed securities.
The address of the registered office of the Company is Fort Anne, Douglas, Isle of Man and the Company is managed from the United Arab Emirates UAE.
The address of the principal place of the business is PO Box 33455, Dubai, UAE.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group are: the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs: fabrication: assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas and renewable sector, including jackup rigs and liftboats: Floating Production, Storage and Offloading FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures: and oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
The Company has either directly or indirectly the following subsidiaries: Percentage Percentage of legal of beneficial ownership ownership Country of Name of the subsidiary % % incorporation Lamprell Energy Limited 100 100 Isle of Man Lamprell Dubai LLC LD 49 100 UAE Lamprell Sharjah WLL LS 49 100 UAE Maritime Offshore Limited MOL 100 100 Isle of Man Maritime Offshore Construction Limited MOCL 100 100 Isle of Man International Inspection Services Limited Inspec 100 100 Isle of Man Cleopatra Barges Limited CBL 100 100 British Virgin Islands Lamprell plc employee benefit trust EBT 100 Unincorporated Jebel Ali Investments Limited JIL 100 100 British Virgin Islands Lamprell Energy FZCO LE FZCO 90 100 UAE Lamprell Asia Limited LAL 100 100 Thailand The balance of 51% in each case is registered in the name of a UAE National who has assigned all the economic benefits attached to his shareholding to the Group entity.
LEL has the power to exercise control over the financial and operating policies of the entities incorporated in the UAE through management agreements and accordingly, these entities are consolidated as wholly owned subsidiaries in these consolidated financial statements.
The UAE National shareholders of these entities receive sponsorship fees from the Group Note 24.
The beneficiaries of the EBT are the employees of the Group.
A UAE free zone company FZCO is required to have a minimum of two shareholders and consequently, the balance of 10% is held by an employee of LEL in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group.
A Thailand registered company is required to have a minimum of three shareholders and consequently, of the total 867,000 shares, 2 shares are held by employees of the Lamprell plc Group in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group and the balance of 866,998 shares are held by LE FZCO.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated and parent company financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements of the parent Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations IFRIC and the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931-2004.
In accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982, the Company has not presented its own income statement.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 64 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting polices below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated and parent company financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. a New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010 but not currently relevant to the Group IFRS 2 amendments, Group Cash-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions, effective from 1 January 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of Group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations, and Consequential Amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, IAS 28, Investments In Associates, and IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared with IFRS 3.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently remeasured through the statement of comprehensive income.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisitionrelated costs should be expensed.
This revised IFRS is currently not applicable to the Group, as the Group has no such business combinations.
IFRS 5 amendment, Non-Current Assets Held For Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The amendment clarifies that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also clarifies that the general requirement of IAS 1 still apply, in particular paragraph 15 to achieve a fair presentation and paragraph 125 sources of estimation uncertainty of IAS 1.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, effective 1 July 2010.
The revision requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill on acquisitions from non-controlling interests or gains and losses on disposals to non-controlling interests.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The revision is currently not applicable to the Group, as there are no non-controlling interests.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of Assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating Segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 65 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued IAS 38 amendment, Intangible Assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an intangible assets acquired in a business combination and permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the Fair value through profit or loss category.
This assessment is to be made based on circumstances that existed on the later of the date the entity first became a party to the contract and the date of any contract amendments that significantly change the cash flows of the contract.
If the entity is unable to make this assessment, the hybrid instrument must remain classified as at fair value through profit or loss in its entirety.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment states that, in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the Group, including the foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied.
In particular, the Group should clearly document its hedging strategy because of the possibility of different designations at different levels of the Group.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners effective on or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation was published in November 2008.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
In some cases, the entity receives cash from a customer that must be used only to acquire or construct the item of property, plant, and equipment in order to connect the customer to a network or provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services or to do both.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010 and not early adopted The Groups and parent entitys assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, issued in November 2009.
This standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2013 but is available for early adoption.
However, the standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement.
IAS 24 revised, Related Party Disclosures, issued in November 2009.
It supersedes IAS 24, Related party disclosures, issued in 2003.
IAS 24 revised is mandatory for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Earlier application, in whole or in part, is permitted.
The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party and removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and other government-related entities.
The Group will apply the revised standard from 1 January 2011.
When the revised standard is applied, the Group and the parent will need to disclose any transactions between its subsidiaries and its associates.
The Group is currently putting systems in place to capture the necessary information.
It is, therefore, not possible at this stage to disclose the impact, if any, of the revised standard on the related party disclosures.
The Group will apply IAS 24 revised from 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement.
For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 66 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Classification of Rights Issues amendment to IAS 32, issued in October 2009.
The amendment applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Provided certain conditions are met, such rights issues are now classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
Previously, these issues had to be accounted for as derivative liabilities.
The amendment applies retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
The Group will apply the amended standard from 1 January 2011.
Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement amendments to IFRIC 14.
The amendments correct an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
This was not intended when IFRIC 14 was issued, and the amendments correct this.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011.
The amendments should be applied retrospectively to the earliest comparative period presented.
The Group will apply these amendments for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2011 but it is not expected that these amendments will have any impact on the Group or the parent entitys financial statements.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
It requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss, which is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably measured, the equity instruments should be measured to reflect the fair value of the financial liability extinguished.
The Group will apply the interpretation from 1 January 2011, subject to endorsement by the EU.
It is not expected to have any impact on the Group or the parent entitys financial statements.
The Group will apply IFRIC 19 subject to EU endorsement.
2.2 Revenue recognition a Contract revenue Contract revenue is recognised under the  method.
When the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised by reference to the proportion that accumulated costs up to the year end bear to the estimated total costs of the contract.
When the contract is at an early stage and its outcome cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred up to the year end which are considered recoverable.
Revenue related to variation orders is recognised when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation can be reliably measured.
A claim is recognised as contract revenue when settled or when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount can be measured reliably.
Losses on contracts are assessed on an individual contract basis and provision is made for the full amount of the anticipated losses, including any losses relating to future work on a contract, in the period in which the loss is first foreseen.
The aggregate of the costs incurred and the profit loss recognised on each contract is compared against progress billings at the year end.
Where the sum of the costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss exceeds the progress billings, the balance is shown under trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts.
Where the progress billings exceed the sum of costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss, the balance is shown under trade and other payables as amounts due to customers on contracts.
In determining contract costs incurred up to the year end, any amounts incurred including advances paid to suppliers and advance billings received from sub-contractors relating to future activity on a contract are excluded and are presented as contract work-in-progress.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 67 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Inspection services Revenue from inspection services is recognised when the services have been rendered: the customer has accepted the service and the collectability of the related receivable are reasonably assured.
c Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest rate method.
2.3 Consolidation Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the acquiree's net assets.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment.
Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments.
Cost also includes directly attributable costs of investment.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group's share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall within the scope of IFRS 3.
Consequently, the Directors have a responsibility to determine a suitable accounting policy.
The Directors have decided to follow the uniting of interests method for accounting for business combinations involving entities under common control.
Under the uniting of interests method, there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities and hence no goodwill is created as balances remain at book value.
Consolidated financial statements include the profit or loss and cash flows for the entire year preand post-merger as if the subsidiary had always been part of the Group.
The aim is to show the combination as if it had always been combined.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed or adjustments have been made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, where necessary, to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
2.4 Investment in subsidiaries In the Companys separate financial statements, the investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Cost is the amount of cash paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire the investment.
Income from such investments is recognised only to the extent that the Company receives distributions from accumulated profits of the investee company arising after the date of acquisition.
Distributions received in excess of such profit i. e. from pre-acquisition reserves are regarded as a recovery of investment and are recognised as a reduction of the cost of the investment.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Groups activities are primarily carried out from the UAE and its currency the UAE Dirham, which is pegged to the US Dollar, is the functional currency of all the entities in the Group except LAL whose functional currency is the Thailand Baht and the EBT whose functional currency is the British Pound.
The consolidated and parent company financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 68 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when deferred into other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on sale.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is the purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets as follows: Years Buildings and infrastructure 1025 Operating equipment 310 Fixtures and office equipment 35 Motor vehicles 5 The assets residual values, if significant, and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost.
When commissioned, capital work-in-progress is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated in accordance with Group policies.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount Note 2.21.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other losses gains net in the income statement.
2.7 Intangible assets Intangible assets representing operating leasehold rights are carried at cost being the fair value on the date of acquisition where intangibles are acquired in a business combination less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the leasehold right over its estimated useful life 17 years.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 69 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Work-in-progress is stated at cost.
When commissioned, work-in-progress is transferred to software and amortised in accordance with Group policies.
2.8 Inventories Inventories comprise raw materials and consumables which are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average basis and comprises direct purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
2.9 Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts receivable from customers for billing in the ordinary course of business for construction contracts, rig refurbishment and inspection services performed.
If collection is expected in one year or less they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within general and administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
2.10 Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
2.11 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
2.12 Employee benefits a Provision for staff benefits A provision is made for the estimated liability for employees entitlements to annual leave and related benefits as a result of services rendered by the employees up to the balance sheet date.
Provision is also made, using actuarial techniques, for the end of service benefits due to employees in accordance with the UAE Labour Law for their periods of service up to the balance sheet date.
The provision relating to annual leave and leave passage is disclosed as a current liability and included in trade and other payables, while that relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in assumptions are charged or credited in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 70 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of shares options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to Retained earnings.
The Company has granted rights to its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary companies conditional upon the completion of continuing service with the Group for a specified period.
The total amount of the grant over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and is recognised in each period as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
In the separate financial statements of the subsidiary, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments of the Company i. e. parent is recognised as an expense with a corresponding credit to Equity.
2.13 Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.14 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current accounts with banks less margin deposits, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturity of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.15 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the repayment value is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
The Group previously recognised all borrowing costs as an expense.
2.16 Dividend distribution Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups consolidated and parent company financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders.
2.17 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and accessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Directors that make strategic decisions.
2.18 Taxation The Company, which is incorporated in the Isle of Man is taxable at 0% in the Isle of Man.
The Group is subject to income tax in respect of its operations through LAL in Thailand which was incorporated in May 2009.
However, LAL has been granted the Investment promotion certificate effective 25 November 2009 which exempts LAL from Corporate Income Tax on net profit derived from the promoted activity for a period of eight years.
The Group is not currently subject to income tax in respect of its operations carried out in the UAE.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 71 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.19 Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity.
Currently, the Group does not have any available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss is initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the consolidated income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the consolidated income statement within other losses gains net in the period in which they arise.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade receivables Note 2.9, other receivables excluding prepayments and cash and cash equivalents Note 2.14 in the Group balance sheet and amounts due from related parties Note 24 and cash at bank Note 25 in the Company balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
The amortised cost is computed using the effective interest method.
Loans and receivables are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the counterparty have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of the ownership.
c Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
If the Group were to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity financial assets, the whole category would be tainted and reclassified as available for sale.
Held-to-maturity financial assets are included in non-current assets, except for those with maturities less than 12 months from the end of the reporting period, which are classified as current assets.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
2.20 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 72 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 31.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement within other losses gains-net.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement within other losses gains-net.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, contracts work-in-progress or fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of contracts work in progress or in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement within other losses gains-net.
2.21 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Any material impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement and separately disclosed.
2.22 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 73 3 Financial risk management 3.1 Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange, cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are evaluated by management on an ongoing basis to assess and manage critical exposures.
The Groups liquidity and market risks are managed as part of the Groups treasury activities.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of established policies and procedures.
a Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group has foreign exchange risk primarily with respect to commitments in Euro with certain suppliers.
To manage the foreign exchange risk exposure arising from future commercial transactions and recognised liabilities, the Group uses forward exchange contracts Note 31. b Market risk cash flow interest rate risk The Group holds its surplus funds in short-term bank deposits.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, if interest rates on deposits had been 0.5% higher lower, the interest income would have been higher lower by USD 527,000 2009: USD 293,000.
The Group does not have any long-term borrowings and does not have significant interest rate risk exposure on bank overdrafts and revolving term facilities.
c Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is detailed in Notes 16, 20, 22, 23, 25 and 31.
The Group has a policy for dealing with customers with an appropriate credit history.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks, held-to-maturity investment, investment carried at fair value through profit or loss and trade receivables.
The Group has a formal procedure of monitoring and follow up of customers for outstanding receivables.
For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted.
The Group assesses internally the credit quality of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had a significant concentration of credit risk with nine of its largest customer balances accounting for 72% 2009: 82% of trade receivables outstanding at that date.
Management believes that this concentration of credit risk is mitigated as the Group has long-standing relationships with these customers.
The table below shows the rating and balance of the 13 major counterparties at the balance sheet date.
2010 2009 External External Counterparty rating USD000 rating USD000 Bank A AA 71,848 AA 5,281 Bank B A 65,813 A 5,153 Bank C A 43,213 A 734 Bank D A 34,847 A 56,283 215,721 67,451 Includes USD 6.9 million 2009: Nil with respect to held-to-maturity investment Note 20.
Based on Standard & Poors Fitch long-term ratings.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 74 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 3 Financial risk management continued 2010 2009 Internal Internal rating USD000 rating USD000 Customer 1 Group B 11,455 Group A 60,000 Customer 2 Group A 6,669 Group A 11,535 Customer 3 Group B 5,803 Group C 6,247 Customer 4 Group C 4,340 Group B 5,189 Customer 5 Group B 3,354 Group C 3,459 Customer 6 Group A 2,376 Group B 3,330 Customer 7 Group C 1,973 Group A 3,283 Customer 8 Group B 1,755 Group B 3,078 Customer 9 Group C 1,713 Group C 2,773 39,438 98,894 Refer to Note 16 for the description of internal ratings.
The counterparties in 2010 are not necessarily the same counterparties in 2009.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties, except for one customer with a balance of USD 2.8 million at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 which has been fully provided for.
d Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
Due to the nature of the underlying business and through progress billings, the Group maintains adequate bank balances to fund its operations.
Management monitors the forecast of the Groups liquidity position on the basis of expected cash flow.
The Group's liquidity risk on derivative financial instruments is disclosed in Note 31.
The Group is currently financed from Shareholders equity.
The table below analyses the Groups other financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows Carrying Contractual Less than One to two amount cash flows one year years USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 31 December 2010 Trade and other payables excluding due to customers on contracts, advances received for contract work and dividend payable Note 32 149,677 149,677 149,677 31 December 2009 Trade and other payables excluding due to customers on contracts, advances received for contract work and dividend payable Note 32 104,393 104,393 104,393 Borrowings Note 33 31,628 31,770 31,628 136,021 136,163 136,021 3.2 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
Total capital for the Group and the Company is calculated as total equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet and in the Company balance sheet respectively.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 75 3 Financial risk management continued Presently, the Group has a dividend policy which takes into account the Groups capital requirements, cash flows and earnings.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has no net debt and was therefore un-geared.
3.3 Fair value estimation The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: a.
Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : b. Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : and c. Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2010.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Note 23 2,500 2,500 Derivatives used for hedging Note 31 2,517 2,517 Total assets 2,517 2,500 5,017 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging Note 31 2,651 2,651 Total liabilities 2,651 2,651 The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2009.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Note 23 2,500 2,500 The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: a.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments: and b.
Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 76 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Revenue recognition The Group uses the  method in accounting for its contract revenue.
Use of the  method requires the Group to estimate the stage of completion of the contract to date as a proportion of the total contract work to be performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2.
As a result, the Group is required to estimate the total cost to completion of all outstanding projects at each period end.
The application of a 10% sensitivity to management estimates of the total costs to completion of all outstanding projects at the year end would result in the revenue and profit increasing by USD 12.1 million 2009: USD 4.7 million if the total costs to completion are decreased by 10% and the revenue and profit decreasing by USD 10.7 million 2009: USD 4.4 million if the total costs to completion are increased by 10%.
Employees end of service benefits The rate used for discounting the employees post employment defined benefit obligation should be based on market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds should be used.
In the UAE, there is no deep market either for corporate or government bonds and therefore, the discount rate has been estimated using the US AA-rated corporate bond market as a proxy.
On this basis, the discount rate applied was 5.25% 2009: 5.75%.
If the discount rate used was to differ by 0.5 points from managements estimates, the carrying amount of the employees end of the service benefits provision at the balance sheet date would be an estimated USD 0.6 million 2009: USD 0.5 million lower or USD 0.7 million 2009: USD 0.5 million higher.
5 Segment information Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Directors who make strategic decisions.
The Executive Directors review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
The Executive Directors consider the business mainly on the basis of the facilities from where the services are rendered.
Management considers the performance of the business from Sharjah SHJ, Hamriyah HAM, Jebel Ali JBA and Thailand THL in addition to the performance of Oil Field Engineering OFE and International Inspection Services Limited Inspec.
SHJ, HAM, JBA and OFE meet all the aggregation criteria required by IFRS 8 and are reported as a single segment Segment A.
Services provided from Inspec and THL do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, and the results of these operations are included in the all other segments column.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, including FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures, oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
Inspec derives its revenue from various services such as non-destructive pipeline testing, ultrasonic testing and heat treatment.
THL derives its revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector and other offshore structures.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 77 5 Segment information continued All other Segment A segments Total USD000 USD000 USD000 Year ended 31 December 2010 Total segment revenue 490,349 15,947 506,296 Inter-segment revenue 2,476 2,476 Revenue from external customers 490,349 13,471 503,820 Gross operating profit 93,643 2,176 95,819 Year ended 31 December 2009 Total segment revenue 406,425 20,232 426,657 Inter-segment revenue 1,139 1,139 Revenue from external customers 406,425 19,093 425,518 Gross operating profit 75,973 5,927 81,900 Sales between segments are carried out on agreed terms.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Executive Directors is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated income statement.
The Executive Directors assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of gross profit.
The staff, equipment and certain subcontract costs are measured based on standard cost.
The measurement basis excludes the effect of the common expenses for yard rent, repairs and maintenance and other miscellaneous expenses.
The reconciliation of the gross profit is provided as follows: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Gross operating profit for the reportable segments as reported to the Executive Directors 93,643 75,973 Gross operating profit for other segments as reported to the Executive Directors 2,176 5,927 Unallocated: Finance cost absorbed in reportable segments 3,850 Under-absorbed employee and equipment costs 5,768 9,913 Repairs and maintenance 7,844 4,494 Yard rent 3,129 3,343 Others 3,220 2,301 Gross profit 79,708 61,849 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Gross profit 79,708 61,849 Other operating income Note 6 23,925 Selling and distribution expenses Note 8 1,183 1,322 General and administrative expenses Note 10 32,527 30,266 Other losses gains net Note 13 1,801 2,358 Finance costs 5,088 925 Finance income 2,193 1,445 Profit for the year 65,227 28,423 Information about segment assets and liabilities is not reported to or used by the Executive Directors and accordingly, no measures of segment assets and liabilities are reported.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 78 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 5 Segment information continued The breakdown of revenue from all the services is as follows: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 New build activities 206,589 226,461 Upgrade and refurbishment activities 163,598 146,235 Offshore construction 117,120 37,921 Others 16,513 14,901 503,820 425,518 The entity is domiciled in the UAE.
The total revenue from external customers in respect of services performed in the UAE is USD 495 million 2009: USD 404 million, and the total revenue from external customers for work performed in other countries is USD 9 million 2009: USD 22 million.
Certain customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups revenue, shown in the table below: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 External customer A 110,316 118,128 External customer B 76,627 63,207 External customer C 50,493 47,196 237,436 228,531 The revenue from these customers is attributable to Segment A.
The above customers in 2010 are not necessarily the same customers in 2009.
6 Other operating income Other operating income of USD 23.9 million represents a gain on the cancellation of a contract with a customer during the year.
7 Cost of sales 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Materials and related costs 152,652 125,257 Staff costs Note 11 86,950 92,719 Sub-contract costs 129,296 91,460 Sub-contract labour 10,666 13,375 Depreciation Note 17 10,160 9,238 Equipment hire 6,361 6,882 Repairs and maintenance 8,323 5,085 Yard rent 3,204 3,425 Others 16,500 16,228 424,112 363,669 8 Selling and distribution expenses 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Advertisement and marketing 524 592 Entertainment 112 171 Travel 376 376 Others 171 183 1,183 1,322 COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 79 9 Share-based payments Group 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Proportionate amount of share-based charge for the year: relating to free share plan 1,592 1,791 relating to executive share option plan 92 150 relating to performance share plan 376 2,060 1,941 Company 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Proportionate amount of share-based charge for the year: relating to free share plan 155 246 relating to executive share option plan 73 73 relating to performance share plan 215 443 319 Free share plan The Company awarded shares to selected Directors, key management personnel and employees under the free share plan that provides an entitlement to receive these shares at no cost.
These free shares are conditional on the Directors key management personnel employee completing a specified period of service the vesting period.
The award does not have any performance conditions and does not entitle participants to dividend equivalents during the vesting period except for 92,725 shares awarded to two Directors during 2008 which entitles them to dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
The fair value of the share awards made under this plan is based on the share price at the date of the grant less the value of the dividends foregone during the vesting period.
The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows: Expected Number Vesting Fair value withdrawal Grant date of shares period per share rate 2008 10 January 2008 99,337 24 months 4.00 5% 7 April 2008 25,301 24 months 3.96 5% 27 April 2008 123,620 18 months 4.28 5% 20 May 2008 70,000 36 months 5.08 5% 318,258 2009 22 January 2009 600,000 24 months 0.89 5% 15 April 2009 763,052 18 months 0.94 5% 1,363,052 2010 21 March 2010 299,000 18 months 2.49 5% During 2009, 18,241 shares which vested immediately were issued to an employee following his resignation as he was considered a good leaver.
A charge of USD 1,592,000 2009: USD 1,791,000 is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 155,000 2009: USD 246,000.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 80 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 9 Share-based payments continued The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share awards in cash.
An analysis of the number of shares gifted granted, vested during the year and expected to vest in future periods is provided below: Number of shares Shares expected to vest in future periods at 1 January 2009 870,717 Shares gifted under free share plan 1,381,293 Shares relating to dividend entitlement on deferred share award 24,385 Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares Note 26 724,251 Shares lapsed during the year due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions 34,996 Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2009 1,517,148 Shares gifted under free share plan 299,000 Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares Note 26 781,574 Shares lapsed during the year due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions 92,574 Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2010 942,000 The shares are expected to vest as follows: Number of shares Year 2010 2009 2010 847,148 2011 942,000 670,000 942,000 1,517,148 Executive share option plan Share options are granted by the Company to certain employees under the executive share option plan.
This option plan does not entitle the employees to dividends.
These options are conditional on the employee completing three years of service the vesting period and hence the options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date and have a contracted option term of 10 years.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
The movement in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise price is as follows: Average exercise price in per share Options Vesting date Expiry date At 1 January 2009 3.22 105,369 16 May 2010 16 May 2017 Granted in 2009 0.57 550,000 31 March 2012 31 March 2019 Forfeited in 2009 3.22 19,585 At 31 December 2009 and 2010 0.93 635,784 The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2009 determined using a binomial valuation model was 0.28 per option.
The significant inputs into the model were an average share price for a period of one year immediately preceding the grant date of 2.91, an exercise price of 0.57, volatility of 50%, dividend yield of 3.31%, an expected option term of 10 years, an annual risk-free interest rate of 3.28% and a withdrawal rate of 5% per annum.
The risk free rate is derived from the yield on UK Government Bonds as detailed by the Bank of England, using a 10-year maturity in line with the life of the option.
The volatility assumption is based on an analysis of the historic daily share price volatility of the Company since its listing date, capped at 50%.
A charge of USD 92,000 2009: USD 150,000 is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 73,000 2009: USD 73,000.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 81 9 Share-based payments continued Performance share plan The Company granted share awards to Directors, key management personnel and selected employees that give them an entitlement to receive a certain number of shares subject to the satisfaction of a performance target and continued employment.
The performance target related to the growth in the Groups earnings per share.
The award does not entitle participants to dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows: Expected Number Vesting Fair value withdrawal Grant date of shares period per share rate 2010 15 April 2010 502,572 36 months 2.57 5% Accordingly, a charge of USD 376,000 2009: Nil is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 215,000 million 2009: Nil.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share awards in cash.
10 general and administrative expenses 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Staff costs Note 11 20,224 17,918 Utilities and communication 2,356 2,409 Depreciation Note 17 3,534 3,948 Others 6,413 5,991 32,527 30,266 During the year, the Group incurred total expenditure of USD 1.4 million for the closure of the LAL operations in Thailand.
General and administrative expenses include USD 0.8 million and USD 0.6 million is included in other losses gains net due to the loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Note 13.
11 Staff costs 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Wages and salaries 61,077 59,647 Employees end of service benefits Note 30 4,446 3,173 Share-based payments value of services provided Note 9 2,060 1,941 Other benefits 39,591 45,876 107,174 110,637 Staff costs are included in: Cost of sales Note 7 86,950 92,719 General and administrative expenses Note 10 20,224 17,918 107,174 110,637 Number of employees at 31 December 4,476 4,515 For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 82 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 11 Staff costs continued Directors remuneration comprises: Sharebased payments Post Allowances value of employand services ment Salary Fees benefits Bonus provided benefits Total Total 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Executive Directors Nigel McCue 786 150 786 374 103 2,199 717 Peter Whitbread 378 165 54 597 1,211 Scott Doak 472 218 434 112 59 1,295 626 David Moran 34 Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Silver 156 156 139 Colin Goodall 119 119 135 Richard Raynaut 71 71 76 Brian Fredrick 70 70 66 Peter Birch 12 1,636 416 533 1,220 486 216 4,507 3,016 The emoluments of the highest paid Director were USD 2.2 million 2009: USD 1.2 million and these principally comprised salary, benefits, bonus and share-based payments.
Appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2009 and served as Chief Operating Officer with effect from 16 May 2008 following resignation as a Non-Executive Director.
Appointed as Director of International Development on 1 May 2009 and served as Chief Executive Officer until 1 May 2009 and resigned with effect from 7 June 2010.
Appointed as a Director on 4 July 2006 and served as Chief Operating Officer until 15 May 2009 and resigned with effect from 1 January 2009.
Appointed as Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009 and has served as a Non-Executive Director since 24 August 2007.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2009.
12 Dividends During the year on 26 March 2010 and 20 August 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 15.2 million comprising USD 7.6 million US cents 3.8 per share relating to 2009 and an interim dividend of USD 7.6 million US cents 3.8 per share for 2010.
At 31 December 2010, unpaid dividends amounted to USD 51,000 Note 32.
During 2009, on 27 March 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 6.3 million US cents 3.15 per share relating to 2008.
At 31 December 2009, the unpaid dividend amounted to USD 34,000 Note 32.
13 Other losses gains net 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Fair value loss on financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Note 23 2,500 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 562 33 Others 1,239 109 1,801 2,358 COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 83 14 earnings per share a Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares Note 26. b Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the free share awards, options under executive share option plan and performance share plan, a calculation is done to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share awards options.
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share awards options.
2010 2009 USD000 USD000 The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following profit and numbers of shares: Profit for the year 65,227 28,423 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 198,987,337 199,105,090 Adjustments for: Assumed exercise of free share awards 763,842 843,477 Assumed vesting of executive share options 411,526 199,030 Assumed vesting of performance share plan 140,844 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 200,303,549 200,147,597 Earnings per share: Basic 32.78c 14.28c Diluted 32.56c 14.20c 15 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Depreciation Note 17 13,694 13,186 Auditors remuneration audit services 345 419 Auditors remuneration taxation and other services 3 21 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 15,482 18,849 Gain on cancellation of a contract Note 6 23,925 Provision for impairment of trade receivables Note 22 202 101 Release of provision for impairment of trade receivables Note 22 1 202 100 For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 84 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 16 Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Group Assets as per balance sheet Assets at fair value Held-toDerivatives Loans and through maturity used for receivables profit or loss investment hedging Total USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 31 December 2010 Derivative financial instruments Note 31 2,517 2,517 Held-to-maturity investment Note 20 6,875 6,875 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Note 23 2,500 2,500 Trade receivables net of provision Note 22 51,669 51,669 Other receivables excluding prepayments 5,660 5,660 Cash and bank balances Note 25 210,223 210,223 Total 267,552 2,500 6,875 2,517 279,444 31 December 2009 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Note 23 2,500 2,500 Trade receivables net of provision Note 22 118,204 118,204 Other receivables excluding prepayments 4,193 4,193 Cash and bank balances Note 25 67,842 67,842 Total 190,239 2,500 192,739 Liabilities as per balance sheet Derivatives Liabilities at used amortised for hedging cost Total 31 December 2010 Derivative financial instruments Note 31 2,651 2,651 Trade payables Note 32 57,791 57,791 Other payables and accruals Note 32 91,886 91,886 Total 2,651 149,677 152,328 31 December 2009 Trade payables Note 32 53,035 53,035 Other payables and accruals Note 32 51,358 51,358 Borrowings Note 33 31,628 31,628 Total 136,021 136,021 Company Loans and receivables 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank 189 107 Due from related parties Note 24 22,619 19,193 Total 22,808 19,300 COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 85 16 Financial instruments by category continued Liabilities at amortised cost 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Other payables and accruals 1,451 562 Credit quality of financial assets Group The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to historical information about counterparty default rates: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Trade receivables Group A 7,681 79,547 Group B 15,933 10,557 Group C 2,959 4,621 26,573 94,725 Derivative financial assets Group A 2,517 Group A Last six months average debtor days is less than 45.
Group B Last six months average debtor days is between 46 and 90.
Group C Last six months average debtor days is above 90.
Derivative financial instruments The credit quality of derivative financial instruments is disclosed in Note 31.
None of the financial assets that is fully performing has been renegotiated in the last year.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 86 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 16 Financial instruments by category continued Due from related parties is neither past due nor impaired.
The remaining lives of the leases range between three to 23 years.
The Group has renewed these land leases, upon expiry, in the past and its present intention is to continue to use the land and renew these leases for the foreseeable future.
A depreciation expense of USD 10,160,000 2009: USD 9,238,000 has been charged to cost of sales and USD 3,534,000 2009: USD 3,948,000 to general and administrative expenses others Notes 7 and 10.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 87 18 Intangible assets Leasehold Work-inright progress Total USD000 USD000 USD000 Cost At 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009 1,534 1,534 Additions 1,191 1,191 At 31 December 2010 1,534 1,191 2,725 Amortisation At 1 January 2009 134 134 Charge for the year 90 90 At 31 December 2009 224 224 Charge for the year 88 88 At 31 December 2010 312 312 Net book amount At 31 December 2010 1,222 1,191 2,413 At 31 December 2009 1,310 1,310 Leasehold right represents a favourable operating right acquired upon the acquisition of JIL and LE FZCO in 2008.
The value of the intangible assets have been determined by calculating the present value of the expected future economic benefits to arise from the favourable lease term 17 years.
Work-in-progress represents the cost incurred towards the implementation of an Enterprise Resource Planning software.
19 Investment in subsidiaries 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Balance at 1 January 748,401 746,779 Effect of share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries under IFRIC 11 1,617 1,622 750,018 748,401 The Company granted free shares share options to employees of its subsidiaries under various plans Note 9.
These shares and options have a vesting period of 18 to 36 months.
Accordingly, the proportionate share-based charge for the year of USD 1.6 million 2009: USD 1.6 million has been recorded as an increase in investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
20 Held-to-maturity investment 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Deposit with a fixed interest rate of 1.75% and a maturity date of 3 October 2012 6,875 The held-to-maturity investment represents a structured deposit with 100% capital protection, a guaranteed return of 1.75% and a variable return, which is linked to the performance of an underlying equity basket, which consists of 10 equally weighted shares.
The capital protected status of the investment is valid only if the investment is held to maturity.
The variable component is considered as an embedded derivative, the fair value of which at the balance sheet date was Nil.
There is no provision for impairment against the held-to-maturity investment.
At 31 December 2010, the fair value of the held-to-maturity investment is USD 6.75 million 2009: Nil.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 88 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 20 Held-to-maturity investment continued The held-to-maturity investment is denominated in UAE Dirhams.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of the held-to-maturity investment.
The held-to-maturity investment is held by the bank as a lien against a guarantee issued by the bank in the ordinary course of business.
21 Inventories 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Raw materials and consumables 10,889 43,809 Less: provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 1,431 749 9,458 43,060 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in contract costs amounted to USD 51 million 2009: USD 14.8 million.
In the opinion of the Directors, the replacement cost of the inventories does not differ significantly from its carrying value.
22 trade and other receivables 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Trade receivables 54,666 120,999 Other receivables and prepayments 13,936 10,715 Advances to suppliers 1,563 4,492 70,165 136,206 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 2,997 2,795 67,168 133,411 Amounts due from customers on contracts 58,013 16,389 Contract work in progress Note 2.2 125,943 43,976 251,124 193,776 Amounts due from customers on contracts comprise: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Costs incurred to date 241,300 209,337 Attributable profits 47,640 53,601 288,940 262,938 Less: progress billings 230,927 246,549 58,013 16,389 An analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Fully performing Note 16 26,573 94,725 Past due but not impaired 25,096 23,479 Impaired 2,997 2,795 54,666 120,999 COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 89 22 trade and other receivables continued Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are generally not considered impaired.
As of 31 December 2010, trade receivables of USD 25.1 million 2009: USD 23.5 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Up to 3 months 19,713 17,335 3 to 6 months 2,375 4,953 Over 6 months 3,008 1,191 25,096 23,479 At 31 December 2010, trade receivables of USD 3 million 2009: USD 2.8 million were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables are over six months 2009: over six months old and mainly relate to customers who are in an unexpectedly difficult economic situation.
The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are primarily denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which is pegged to the US Dollar.
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 2,795 2,788 Provision for receivables impairment Note 15 202 101 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 93 Unused amounts reversed Note 15 1 At 31 December 2,997 2,795 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement Note 10.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
During 2009, a receivable from one customer amounting to USD 60 million was secured by the lien on the new build unit under construction and the related procured materials.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
23 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Unlisted equity security 2,500 2,500 On 27 November 2009, LEL subscribed for 28,000,000 shares in BassDrill Alpha Limited BassDrill amounting to USD 5 million at the subscription price of USD 0.1786 per share.
LEL entered into an option agreement with certain shareholders of BassDrill granting LEL the option to sell the BassDrill shares after 12 months at an option price of USD 0.0893 plus three month LIBOR 3% per annum.
Further LEL also granted certain shareholders of BassDrill the option to purchase the BassDrill shares held by LEL in the period starting from the date of issuance and ending after 24 months at an option price of USD 0.1786 plus three month LIBOR 3% per annum.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 90 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 23 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss continued During 2009, a fair value loss of USD 2.5 million was recorded in other losses gains net Note 13 in the consolidated income statement based on managements estimate of the carrying value.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented within operating activities as part of changes in working capital in the consolidated cash flow statement.
In January 2011, LEL exercised the put option and realised USD 2.6 million in respect of this investment.
24 Related party balances and transactions Related parties comprise LHL which owns 33% of the issued share capital of the Company, certain legal shareholders of the Group companies, Directors and key management personnel of the Group.
Related parties for the purpose of the parent company financial statements also include subsidiaries owned directly or indirectly.
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group entered into the following significant transactions during the year with related parties at prices and on terms agreed between the related parties: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Key management compensation 9,506 5,946 Sponsorship fees paid to legal shareholders of LD and LS Note 1 143 141 Key management compensation comprises: Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 7,988 4,621 Share-based payments value of services provided 965 1,007 Post-employment benefits 553 318 9,506 5,946 Due from related parties 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Company LEL receivable in respect of management fees charged by the Company 19,144 17,202 EBT 3,475 1,991 22,619 19,193 Includes USD 3,388,744 2009: USD 1,810,926 due in respect of payments made for treasury shares acquired by EBT on behalf of the Group.
Further, the Company has provided performance guarantees on behalf of its subsidiary.
These guarantees, issued in the normal course of business, are outstanding at the year end and no outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in relation to these guarantees is expected by the Company.
Dividends paid by the Company include an amount of USD 5.2 million 2009: 2.2 million in respect of shares held by key management personnel including those held by the EBT in respect of shares gifted of which USD 5 million 2009: 2.1 million was paid to LHL, a company controlled by Steven Lamprell who is a member of key management.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 91 25 Cash and bank balances Group 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank and on hand 36,916 18,336 Short-term and margin deposits 173,307 49,506 Cash and bank balances 210,223 67,842 Less: margin deposits 5,973 5,673 Less: deposits with an original maturity of more than three months 67,446 3,847 Less: bank overdrafts Note 33 9,081 Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purpose 136,804 49,241 At 31 December 2010, the cash at bank and short-term deposits were held with eight 2009: seven banks.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 2.08% 2009: 2.46% per annum.
Margin deposits of USD 6 million 2009: USD 5.7 million and deposits with an original maturity of more than three months amounting to USD 42 million 2009: Nil are held under lien against guarantees issued Note 36.
Company Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held with one bank.
26 Share capital Issued and fully paid ordinary shares Company Equity share capital Number USD000 At 1 January 2009, 31 December 2009 and 2010 200,279,309 18,682 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 400 million shares 2009: 400 million shares with a par value of 5 pence per share 2009: 5 pence per share.
During 2010, EBT acquired 722,453 shares 2009: 1,391,253 shares of the Company.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was USD 3.5 million 2009: USD 1.7 million and has been deducted from the Consolidated Retained earnings.
During the year 781,574 shares 2009: 724,251 shares amounting to USD 1.9 million 2009: USD 2.2 million were issued to employees on vesting of the free shares and 1,277,138 shares 2009: 1,336,259 shares are held as treasury shares at 31 December 2010.
The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a later date.
These shares will be issued on the vesting of the awards granted under free shares share options performance share plan to certain employees of the Group Note 9.
27 Legal reserve The Legal reserve of USD 33,436 2009: USD 31,436 relates to subsidiaries incorporated as limited liability companies in the UAE.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the respective subsidiaries and the UAE Federal Law No.
8 of 1984, as amended, 10% of the profit for the year of such companies is transferred to a Legal reserve.
Such transfers are required to be made until the reserve is equal to, at least, 50% of the issued share capital of such companies.
During the year, an amount of USD 2,000 2009: USD 2,000 was transferred to the Legal reserve.
28 Other reserve The Other reserve of USD 708,852,000 represents the difference between the cost of the investment in LEL USD 727,506,000 and the nominal value of Share capital issued by the Company to acquire LEL USD 18,654,000.
The Other reserve is not available for distribution.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 92 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 29 Merger reserve 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Nominal value of shares of the Company 18,654 18,654 Share capital of LEL 82 82 Merger reserve on acquisition of LEL 18,572 18,572 Purchase consideration relating to acquisition of Inspec 4,000 4,000 Share capital of Inspec 150 150 Merger reserve on acquisition of Inspec 3,850 3,850 Total 22,422 22,422 On 11 September 2006, LEL acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership of Inspec from LHL for a consideration of USD 4 million.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the purchase consideration USD 4 million and the share capital of Inspec USD 150,000 has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
On 25 September 2006, the Company entered into a share for share exchange agreement with LEL and LHL under which it acquired 100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from LHL in consideration for the issue to LHL of 200,000,000 shares of the Company.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the nominal value of shares issued by the Company USD 18,654,000 and the nominal value of LEL shares acquired USD 82,000 has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
30 Provision for employees end of service benefits In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations at 31 December 2010 and 2009, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employees expected service life with the Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service.
The movement in the employees end of service benefit liability over the year is as follows: Group 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 15,150 14,329 Current service cost 2,297 2,762 Interest cost 958 960 Actuarial losses gains 1,191 384 Curtailments 165 Benefits paid 1,072 2,352 At 31 December 18,524 15,150 Company 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 592 758 Current service cost 35 30 Interest cost 22 17 Actuarial losses 159 56 Benefits paid 269 At 31 December 808 592 COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 93 30 Provision for employees end of service benefits continued The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are as follows: Group 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Current service cost 2,297 2,762 Interest cost 958 960 Actuarial losses gains 1,191 384 Gain on curtailments 165 Total included in staff costs Note 11 4,446 3,173 Of the total charge, USD 3.2 million 2009: USD 2.6 million and USD 1.2 million 2009: USD 0.6 million are included in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses respectively.
Company 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Current service cost 35 30 Interest cost 22 17 Actuarial losses 159 56 Total included in staff costs 216 103 The above charge of USD 0.2 million 2009: USD 0.1 million is included in general and administrative expenses.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.25% 5.75% Future salary increase: Management and administrative employees 5.00% 5.00% Yard employees 3.50% 4.00% Due to the nature of the benefit, which is a lump-sum payable on exit for any cause, a combined single decrement rate has been used as follows: Percentage of employees at each age exiting the plan per year Age 2010 2009 Management, yard and administrative employees: Below 20 years 0% 0% 2029 years 15% 15% 3039 years 10% 10% 4044 years 10% 7% 4554 years 7% 7% 5559 years 2% 7% 60 years and above 100% 100% Executive directors: 3539 years 10% 0% 4064 years 7% 7% 65 years and above 100% 100% For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 94 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 Derivative financial instruments 2010 2009 Notional Notional contract contract Credit amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities rating USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts A 36,310 2,517 Forward foreign exchange contracts AA, A 85,301 2,651 Total 121,611 2,517 2,651 During the year, the Company entered into three forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency exposure with respect to certain supplier commitments in Euros.
The notional principal amount at the date of inception of these contracts was Euro 142.02 million.
These contracts mature within 24 months from the date of inception.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
An amount of USD 304,000 was recorded in equity and an amount of USD 170,000 was recycled from equity to profit or loss during the year.
The net movement in the fair value reserve during the year was USD 134,000.
The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next 18 months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as of 31 December 2010 are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
This risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counterparties, using the same techniques as for other counterparties.
32 trade and other payables 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Trade payables 57,791 53,035 Other payables and accruals 91,886 51,358 Amounts due to customers on contracts 99,986 20,183 Advances received for contract work 43,557 Dividend payable Note 12 51 34 293,271 124,610 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Amounts due to customers on contracts comprise: Progress billings 252,521 250,892 Less: Cost incurred to date 133,894 213,733 Less: Attributable profits 18,641 16,976 99,986 20,183 The dividend payable represents an amount held by the EBT in respect of treasury shares.
This dividend will be paid by the EBT to the employees upon completion of the vesting period.
COMPAny buSIneSS CORPORAte FInAnCIAL OveRvIew RevIew gOveRnAnCe StAteMentS Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 95 33 borrowings 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Bank overdrafts 9,081 Revolving facilities 22,547 31,628 The bank facilities relating to overdrafts and revolving facilities carry interest at LIBOR EIBOR 1.5% to 4.0% 2009: LIBOR EIBOR 2.0% to 3.5%.
The carrying amounts of borrowings in the prior year approximated to their fair value and were denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which is pegged to the US Dollar.
34 Profit of the Company The profit of USD 19,048,000 2009: USD 6,579,000 in respect of the Company has been included in these consolidated financial statements.
35 Commitments a Operating lease commitments The Group leases land and staff accommodation under various operating lease agreements.
The remaining lease terms of the majority of the leases are between 6 to 23 years and are renewable at mutually agreed terms.
The future minimum lease payments payable under operating leases are as follows: 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Not later than one year 6,886 7,826 Later than one year but not later than five years 10,816 13,019 Later than five years 31,108 33,728 48,810 54,573 b Other commitments 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Letters of credit for purchase of materials and operating equipment 3,433 13,285 Capital commitments for purchase of operating equipment 2,416 929 Capital commitments for construction of facilities 13,555 18,262 36 bank guarantees 2010 2009 USD000 USD000 Performance bid bonds 126,284 112,319 Advance payment, labour visa and payment guarantees 292,126 5,882 418,410 118,201 The various bank guarantees, as above, were issued by the Groups bankers in the ordinary course of business.
Certain guarantees are secured by 100% cash margins, assignments of receivables from some customers and, in respect of guarantees provided by banks to the Group companies, they have been secured by parent and certain Group company guarantees.
In the opinion of the Directors, the above bank guarantees are unlikely to result in any liability to the Group.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 96 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 37 events after balance sheet date The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed a dividend of 9.5 cents per share amounting to USD 19 million at a meeting held on 24 March 2011.
In accordance with the accounting policy under IFRS set out at Note 2.16, this dividend has not been accrued at 31 December 2010 2009: 3.80 cents per share amounting to USD 7.6 million declared on 26 March 2010 was not accrued at 31 December 2009.
This is in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Amendment Act 2009 which required that such proposed dividends should not be recognised until paid or approved by the shareholders.
Definitions The following definitions apply throughout this document unless the context requires otherwise: AGM Annual General Meeting IAS International Accounting Standards AIM Alternative Investment Market a market IFRIC International Financial Reporting operated by London Stock Exchange Plc Interpretations Committee interpretation API American Petroleum Institute IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards BassDrill BassDrill Alpha Limited Inspec International Inspection Services Limited Board or Directors the Board of Directors of IPO Initial Public Offering the Company ISO International Organisation for Standards CAD Canadian Dollars KPI Key Performance Indicators CEO Chief Executive Officer Labour Law Labour Law Federal Law No.
8 of CFO Chief Financial Officer 1980 as amended CSR Corporate Social Responsibility LAL Lamprell Asia Limited Company Lamprell plc Lamprell the Company and its subsidiary undertakings COO Chief Operating Officer LD Lamprell Dubai LLC EBITDA Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation LEL Lamprell Energy Limited EBT Lamprell plc Employee Benefit Trust LHL Lamprell Holdings Limited EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction LS Lamprell Sharjah WLL EPS Earnings Per Share LSE London Stock Exchange Limited ESOP Lamprell plc Executive Share Option Plan LTI Lost Time Incident FPSO Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading Mercer Mercer Consulting Middle East Limited FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index PSP Lamprell plc 2008 Performance Share Plan FZCo Free Zone Company TSR Total Shareholder Return Group The Company and its subsidiaries UAE the Federation of the United Arab Emirates HSE Health, Safety and Environment United States or US the United States of America
