Shareholder information We answer Key dates for your diary in 2011 the cleared funds on the payment date.
How to get in touch 23 February FY10 results announced If you select this payment method you will Our registrars can be contacted regarding 29 March Annual report and accounts receive a consolidated tax voucher shortly all shareholding queries: and AGM Notice published before the end of each tax year.
Alternatively, 6 April Ex-dividend date a tax voucher can be sent with each Capita Registrars 8 April Record date to be eligible for payment, if preferred.
To change the way Northern House the final dividend you receive your dividends either log on Woodsome Park 4 May AGM and Q1 interim management to: www.
com or contact Fenay Bridge statement Capita.
Hudderseld 5 May Final dividend paid to shareholders HD8 0GA 5 August Interim results announced Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP United Kingdom 14 September Ex-dividend date The DRIP allows shareholders in the UK and www.
com 16 September Record date to be eligible other unrestricted countries to reinvest their for the interim dividend dividends directly into Logica shares.
This From the UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 14 October Interim dividend paid to service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees 10p per minute plus any network provider shareholders Limited CIRGT.
If you are eligible and charges: lines are open 9.00am 5.30pm, 2 November Q3 Interim management decide to participate, your dividends will Mon Fri. statement be used by CIRGT to buy shares in the Company on your behalf.
Any remaining From outside the UK: Shareholder information and dividend which is insu cient to purchase 44 0 20 8639 3399 services online a whole share will be carried forward and We actively encourage shareholders to held, without interest, in a Client Money Email: shareholder.
services@ help us to reduce the amount of paper bank account.
In addition, if you participate capitaregistrars.
com we circulate through online shareholder in the DRIP, it is now also possible to roll-up Fax: 44 0 1484 601512 communications.
This has the added any outstanding unclaimed dividends into bene t that documents will be received shares.
To nd out more about these If this report has not answered your more quickly.
Updates on statutory services please contact Capita.
questions, please contact us: publications, new shareholder information, our online annual report and accounts Dividend currency conversion Karen Keyes and other information can all be sent Our registrars are able to convert your Head of Investor Relations electronically.
sterling dividends into a number of Tel: 44 0 20 7446 4372 To register for this service, please international currencies, including Euros, Email: karen.
com, select US$ and others, at competitive rates.
Register, and follow the on-screen They can then either arrange for these Lucy Driver prompts.
Enter your unique Investor funds to be sent to you by currency draft Investor Relations Assistant Code, which can be found on dividend or can pay them direct into your bank Tel: 44 0 20 7446 1338 tax vouchers or share certi cates.
More details, including the Email: lucy.
com can also be obtained by contacting Capita currencies available, can be obtained Registrars using the details below.
Should by contacting Capitas currency service Our investor website can be found at: you change your mind at a later date, you on 44 0 20 8639 3405 or by visiting www.
com investors may cancel your request by contacting their website www.
Additionally, information that is com international Logica plc not sent out by post, including half year Registered o ce: results, trading statements, results ShareGift 250 Brook Drive presentations and news updates can If you have a small shareholding which Green Park also be found on our website is uneconomical to sell you may wish Reading www.
com investors to consider donating it to ShareGift RG2 6UA Registered charity no.
United Kingdom Managing your shares Find out more at www.
org Dividend mandating or call 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Registered in England Instead of receiving a cheque, you could No.
1631639 choose to have your dividends paid straight into your bank account so that you will have 139 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 A picture 1,000 words And a video is even better... Our online report is complemented by an exhibition space to show you how our people are changing the way clients engage with Logica and how we deliver for you as shareholders.
You can access the exhibits described on the next page at annualreport.
com View our online exhibition here: annualreport.
com 140 Accessing more online Room 1 Room 2 Room 3 Closer to clients Strength and flexibility Building longer-term value BNP Paribas.
Evolving with clients Right people, right places Programme for Growth BNP Paribas was already a long-term client in 2008 We have increased the percentage of people o shore Our 2008 Programme for Growth, has been the basis and we continue to support their retail banking out but remain an important European employer too.
for improving our operating e ciency and being able of Bordeaux.
to reinvest in future growth.
Investing in the right industry solutions Outsourcing was 43% of revenues in 2010 for our clients Our investments build on existing sector expertise.
The value of Outsourcing to our clients Our large Outsourcing deal signed in 2005 with Delivering industry-specific SAP expertise EDP illustrates how we can drive value.
to E. ON Resilience and flexibility starting from the top E. ON highlighted sector experience and commitment Operating within the ecosystem A change of Executive Committee roles at the to their success as the key factors driving their SAP The generation of value is dependent on beginning of 2010 developed our executives ability implementation with us.
acknowledging the ecosystems that we operate in.
to think both locally and globally.
Innovation in Prosecution Lower overheads Changing where and how we work Co-innovation subsequently turned the idea of using 2009 demonstrated the clear e ects of our Our teams have turned real estate cost reduction tablets in a court environment to reality for the CPS Programme for Growth on our Group overheads.
decisions into an opportunity to positively change in 2010. h how ow w we e u us se e o our ur b buil uilding dings s..
Better quality of earnings Low volatility in our returns to shareholders requires us to take a view of the real sustainable cost of running our business and ensure that is re ected inour operating margins.
Updating the Logica brand We refreshed brand to respond to market changes.
Microsoft, Logica and our clients Microsofts agreement with Logica for its cloud People and planet solutions extends an already strong relationship.
Given that such a signi cant portion of Logicas emissions are generated by travel, it has been an Cloud: the Fennia way obvious place to focus our e orts.
Finnish insurance company Fennia has streamlined its business processes using the cloud to improve Increasing dividends productivity for both themselves and their brokers.
A tangible return shareholders have seen is an The right skills increase in the dividend payout.
Enduring relationships To meet client needs, we continually evaluate where We have worked with some clients for a number our people are located and the skills we have within Revenue and margin stability through of years.
the downturn Changing the way we work with clients Talking offshore to our clients Its not so much what we o er our clients but Our new Infrastructure Management production how we deliver it.
centre opened in Chennai in 2010 with a state of the art control bridge linked to the Logica network.
Having fun at work Our French colleagues worked together to create an entry for the YouTube Lip Dub competition.
Innovative Our Danish colleague underlined her commitment to creativity and the new brand one of the people who makes Logica a great place to work.
Environmental information This report is printed on Revive Pure White Silk, a 100% recycled paper made up from pre and post consumer waste.
This paper has been independently certi ed according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO14001 standard for environmental management.
This report is recyclable and the lamination used on the cover is biodegradable.
The use of the FSC logo identi es products which contain wood from well-managed forests certi ed in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
co. uk: Print by St Ives Westerham Press.
