FINANCIAL CALENDAR FOR 2011 January AGM and Q1 Production Report May Interim Results including Q2 Production Report July Q3 Production Report November Final Results including Q4 Production Report Please note that the Production Report for Q1 and Q3 incorporate the Companys Interim Management Statements for the respective half year.
The paper used in this report is produced with FSC mixed sources pulp which is fully recyclable, biodegradable, pH Neutral, heavy metal absence and acid-free.
It is manufactured within a mill which complies with the international environmental ISO 14001 standard.
TT-COC-002226 Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed ISO14001REGISTERED to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry DNVCertificationBV 013 standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Photography by Kevin Rudham www.
co. za Printed by Fulmar Colour Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk 152 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our Our employees live and work Zero Harm portfolio of high quality assets.
We are committed to zero safely and experience the personal satisfaction that harm to people and the To deliver the requirements environment.
comes with high performance of the South African broadand recognition.
based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the Our shareholders are realising We are committed ethical opportunity to transform our people who do what we say a superior total return on their business.
investment and support our we will do.
To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded The communities in which we Open, honest communication on safe work, continuous operate value our relationships.
and free sharing of information.
improvement, common Respect For Each Other We are meeting our standards and procedures, commitments to all business Embracing our diversity community involvement and enriched by openness, partners and our suppliers, one that rewards employees contractors, partners and sharing, trust, teamwork for high performance.
High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem.
Roger Phillimore Ian Farmer Chairman Chief Executive www.
com 153 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts For the year ended 30 September 2010 Delivering today Anticipating tomorrow Lonmin Plc Lonmin Plc Registered in England, Company Number 103002 Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
