Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 138 to 144.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 November 2010.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
No changes in the accounting policies have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, the 2008 and 2009 consolidated statements of financial position have been restated to reflect an additional $64 million of deferred tax liabilities which were not recognised in relation to certain fair value consolidation adjustments on the transition to IFRS which occurred in the year ended 30 September 2006.
The restatement has no cash impact.
The additional liability will unwind as the related assets are amortised which will result in a tax credit of approximately $2 million tax credit to the income statement which is not considered material.
Please see note 23 for full details.
After making due enquiries, and reviewing forecasts which take into account reasonably possible changes in performance, the Directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Managements review of the factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business and the approach to financial risk management are given in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 27 and the in the Internal Controls and Risk Management section on pages 28 to 33.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows: Impairment of assets The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and management approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment.
Reserves and resources Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves SAMREC.
The determination of resources and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties.
Changes in proven and probable reserves have a direct impact on depreciation rates applied to mining assets which are calculated on a units of production basis.
Inventory Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement.
Prior to production as final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal.
Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
Management judgement, therefore, is also applied.
com 103 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Rehabilitation costs The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are reflected in the rehabilitation provision.
The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs.
Estimating the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology, whether contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be taken and the likely costs which would be incurred.
Such judgments are made using advice from expert advisors.
In addition, the outflows in respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future.
Judgment is therefore also involved in estimating the timing of the cash flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
HDSA financing Accounting for the financing provided by Lonmin for Shandukas acquisition of the non-controlling interests in Lonmins principal subsidiaries is considered in detail in note 28, and further in note 22.
Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
104 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when: the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location : recovery of the consideration is probable: the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably: there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the sale of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional.
The impact of changes in metal prices to the point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue.
The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory see Inventories policy.
Finance income and expenses Finance income comprises interest on funds invested including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset.
Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is considered probable.
Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The Companys accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its Black Economic Empowerment partner, are detailed in the financial instruments section.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the more detailed feasibility study stage.
Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on commencement of the development phase of the related project.
Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion, any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost.
Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Groups policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use.
Therefore amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and evaluation expenditure.
They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of production basis over the life of the mine.
com 105 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Share-based payment From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax also includes secondary tax charges on dividends remitted which are recognised upon the declaration of relevant dividends.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base.
Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax relating to the secondary tax charges on the remittance of overseas earnings is provided to the extent that such remittance of earnings can reasonably be foreseen.
Business combinations and goodwill At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, associate or joint venture fair values are attributed to the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Any provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the acquired interest in the fair values of those net assets.
Goodwill is initially recognised at fair value.
Any negative goodwill is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
If an undertaking is subsequently sold, the amount of goodwill carried on the balance sheet at the date of disposal is charged to the income statement in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures which are equity accounted for is included within the Groups investments.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of the associate.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 20 to 40 years.
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
106 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Recognition Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located.
Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
Componentisation When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
The expected useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Method Rate Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% 5.0% per annum 20 40 years Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% 7.1% per annum 14 40 years Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% 2.9% per annum 35 40 years Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% 50.0% per annum 2 40 years No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment The Groups principal assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and evaluation, mining and processing activities.
For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
com 107 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Value in use In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and managements approach to determine appropriate values are set out below: Key Assumption Management Approach PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long term plan of the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Projections are made using external sources of information.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and the views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5 years.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Groups history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist.
Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for Group is used for impairment testing.
The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example, the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk.
The real weighted average cost of capital applied to goodwill in the Marikana CGU was 8% 2009 8%.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the units carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long-term PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the underlying ore body.
The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast as described in value in use.
Akanani exploration and evaluation asset The resources at Akanani include the exploration and evaluation asset, a deferred tax liability and tax goodwill.
The exploration and evaluation asset includes an amount for tax amortisation benefit.
A deferred tax liability was created on acquisition but because deferred tax liabilities are not discounted and the tax amortisation benefits are, a tax goodwill balance was created.
This tax goodwill balance represents the effect of not discounting the deferred tax liability.
For the Akanani CGU managements assessment of mineral resources and reserves is higher than that at acquisition and there has been limited change in anticipated long-term metal prices since this time.
For the Akanani CGU management do not believe there are relevant market transactions which can be used to consider the asset on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Management do not believe there are any current indicators of impairment.
Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long-term metal prices.
Adverse changes in reserves and resources or long-term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
Any adverse impact on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset could have a direct impact on the carrying value of the tax goodwill which has to be assessed under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
As the PGM ounces are only indicated and inferred, and plans for the extraction of the mineral resource are not that far advanced, it is considered impractical to provide quantified sensitivities and an estimate of what headroom, if any, exists.
108 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Exploration and evaluation assets Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount.
When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reversal of impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale When an assets carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of the balance sheet date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
Platinum Group Metals PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative sales value of each of the platinum group metals produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating levels.
Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production expected in each phase.
The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs.
This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income statement if utilised within one year.
Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
com 109 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Provisions Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
These also comprise bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its Black Economic Empowerment BEE partner, Shanduka.
The loan component of the hybrid instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost.
The loan is denominated in Sterling.
Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except when market value has fallen below original cost when the losses are taken to the income statement together with any foreign exchange gains or losses arising whilst the asset is impaired.
When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date where this is available.
Where market price is not available the Directors best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and commodity price risks on by-products.
The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The financial instrument issued by Shanduka to the Company contains a derivative component which has a fair value determined by a valuation model which requires unobservable management assumptions to be made.
As such the derivative falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and, at recognition, no day one gains can be made.
Hence, the unobservable assumptions have been adjusted downwards to eliminate the day one gain.
These adjustments will only be amended post recognition to the extent that a change occurs in factors which market participants would consider in setting a price.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised directly in equity if effective.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
110 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Segmental reporting The core principle of IFRS 8 Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being: PGM Operations which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
Evaluation which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
Exploration this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
New standards and amendments in the year There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which materially impacted the Groups financial statements.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations to IFRS as adopted by the EU, that are effective for the current period, have been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements and have affected the figures being disclosed.
The following are of relevance to the Group: IFRS 8 Operating Segments introduced the management approach to segment reporting.
As a result of adopting IFRS 8 the Groups segments have changed from Platinum, Corporate and Exploration to PGM Operations, Evaluation and Exploration.
The use of an Other column and a column for intersegment eliminations provides the required reconciliations back to the consolidated figures.
IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial Statements affects the presentation of owner changes in equity with the requirement to present in a statement of changes in equity for all owner changes in equity and to present a statement of comprehensive income.
It does not change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and other events required by other IFRSs.
IAS 23 amendment Borrowing Costs requires that an entity shall capitalise borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset.
This is in line with Lonmins existing policy for capitalising borrowing costs and therefore has no effect on the Groups results.
There were no other new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which materially impacted the Group.
The following standard, issued by the IASB, is relevant to the Group but has not yet been adopted: IAS 32 amendment Classification of Rights Issue effective 1 February 2010 allows rights issues which will exchange an entitys own equity for a fixed amount of cash in any currency to be treated as equity if the rights have been offered pro-rata to all existing equity holders.
The Rights Issue undertaken by the Group last year meets this criteria, however, as the amendment had not been adopted by the EU at the time of signing the 2009 year end financial statements the amendment could not be applied by the Group.
During the 2010 year, the Group undertook an equity placing.
This transaction did not meet the requirements of IAS 32 as amended because this was not a rights issue.
Since the net effect on retained earnings of both the above transactions is $nil the Directors have decided not to adopt the amendment early and so not to restate the 2009 comparative figures.
The Group does not expect the adoption of other new, or revisions to existing, standards or interpretations issued by the IASB, not listed above, to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
com 111 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 2 Segmental analysis The Group distinguishes between 3 reportable operating segments being the Platinum Group Metals PGM Operations segment, the Evaluation segment and the Exploration segment.
The PGM Operations segment comprises the activities involved in the mining and processing of PGMs, together with associated base metals, which are carried out entirely in South Africa.
The Evaluation segment covers the evaluation through pre-feasibility of the economic viability of newly discovered PGM deposits.
Currently all of the evaluation projects are based in South Africa.
The Exploration segment covers the activities involved in the discovery or identification of new PGM deposits.
This activity occurs on a worldwide basis.
No operating segments have been aggregated.
Operating segments have consistently adopted the consolidated basis of accounting and there are no differences in measurement applied.
Other covers mainly the results and investment activities of the corporate Head Office in London.
The only intersegment transactions involve the provision of funding between segments and any associated interest.
Year ended 30 September 2010 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 1,078 1,078 Palladium 141 141 Gold 19 19 Rhodium 229 229 Ruthenium 27 27 Iridium 18 18 PGMs 1,512 1,512 Nickel 56 56 Copper 14 14 Chrome 3 3 1,585 1,585 i Underlying: ii EBITDA LBITDA 359 3 6 350 Depreciation and amortisation 122 122 ii Operating profit loss 237 3 6 228 Finance income 3 36 29 10 Finance expenses 23 15 29 9 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 5 3 8 Profit loss before taxation 222 3 6 24 237 Income tax expense credit 82 4 6 80 Profit loss after taxation 140 7 6 30 157 Total assets 3,537 843 4 963 523 4,824 Total liabilities 1,888 294 46 37 523 1,742 Net assets 1,649 549 42 926 3,082 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 47 125 172 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 293 17 310 Material non cash items share-based payments 9 9 112 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 2 Segmental analysis continued Year ended 30 September 2009 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 742 742 Palladium 68 68 Gold 17 17 Rhodium 148 148 Ruthenium 14 14 Iridium 10 10 PGMs 999 999 Nickel 50 50 Copper 13 13 1,062 1,062 i Underlying: ii EBITDA LBITDA 11 6 11 7 1 Depreciation and amortisation 94 94 ii Operating loss profit 83 6 11 7 93 Finance income 3 9 3 9 Finance expenses 31 3 28 Share of loss profit of equity accounted investments 1 2 1 Loss profit before taxation 112 6 11 18 111 Income tax expense 18 18 Loss profit after taxation 130 6 11 18 129 Total assets 3,089 831 625 332 4,213 iii Total liabilities 1,483 257 35 32 332 1,475 iii Net assets 1,606 574 35 593 2,738 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 39 120 159 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 229 29 258 Material non cash items share-based payments 4 4 Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2010 2009 $m $m The Americas 453 227 Asia 373 296 Europe 529 417 South Africa 230 122 1,585 1,062 The Groups revenues are all derived from the PGM Operations segment.
This segment has 2 major customers who contributed 69% and 23% of revenue in the year 2009 66% and 27%.
Metal sales prices are based on market prices which are denominated in US Dollars.
The majority of sales are also invoiced in US Dollars with the exception of certain sales in South Africa which are invoiced in South African Rand based on exchange rates determined in accordance with the contractual arrangements.
com 113 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 2 Segmental analysis continued Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, by geographical area are shown below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2010 2009 $m $m South Africa 3,461 3,271 Europe 1 1 3,462 3,272 Footnotes: i Underlying results are based on reported results excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3. ii EBITDA LBITDA and operating profit loss are the key profit measures used by management.
iii Total liabilities and net assets are restated as disclosed in note 23.
3 Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency with prior years.
2010 2009 $m $m Operating loss: 25 49 i Costs relating to HDSA financing 5 ii Impairment of property, plant and equipment 12 iii Restructuring and reorganisation costs 9 49 Pension refund 1 iv Impairment of available for sale financial assets 39 Net finance income expense : 28 73 i Interest accrued from HDSA receivable 3 i Exchange gain on HDSA receivable 11 Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative asset notes 22g and 28 12 Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of equity issuance note 29 33 Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance note 29 4 v Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance 2 36 Profit loss on special items before taxation 3 161 Taxation related to special items note 7 38 33 Special loss before non-controlling interests 35 194 Non-controlling interests 9 12 Special loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 26 182 Footnotes: i As explained in note 28 the Group provided financing to assist Shanduka to acquire a majority shareholding in Incwala, Lonmins Black Economic Empowerment partner.
This financing has given rise to foreign exchange movements and the accrual of interest in the year.
The Group also incurred fees from advisors in relation to the transaction.
ii During the year the Group took a strategic decision to enhance its smelting capacity by initiating the development of an additional pyromet furnace.
The most cost effective approach was to decommission the existing Merensky furnace and leverage the existing infrastructure.
To the extent the Merensky furnace assets could not be reutilised these have been written off.
In addition, $2 million was written off with respect to houses for sale.
iii During the year the Group incurred $9 million in transition costs in relocating corporate functions from the London office to South Africa.
In 2009 the Group incurred $49 million restructuring costs together with abnormal non-productive operating costs at Limpopo following announcement of its closure.
iv During the prior year certain available for sale financial assets were marked to market and fell below original acquisition costs resulting in $39 million of impairment charges being taken to the income statement.
v During the year the Group completed an equity placing of 9,064,249 ordinary shares.
Since the equity was raised in Sterling and the functional currency of the Group is US Dollars, the fair value of the derivative recognised under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation increased by $2 million during the settlement period due to variations in the share price and foreign exchange.
The transaction could not be treated as an equity instrument, rather than a derivative, under the amendment to IAS 32 as it was not a Rights Issue.
In the prior year a charge of $36 million arose on the Rights Issue as disclosed in note 29.
114 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 4 Group operating profit loss Group operating profit loss is arrived at as follows: 2010 2009 $m $m Revenue 1,585 1,062 Cost of sales 1,236 1,088 Gross profit loss 349 26 Administration expenses including foreign exchange, see below 115 56 Exploration note 2 6 11 Special costs note 3 25 49 Group operating profit loss 203 142 Group operating profit loss is stated after charging crediting : 2010 2009 $m $m Operating lease charges land and buildings 1 1 Depreciation charge property, plant and equipment 108 80 Amortisation charge intangible assets 14 14 i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments 12 10 Share-based payments 9 4 Foreign exchange losses gains 29 3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 4 Special items note 3 25 49 Footnote: i Included within employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments is $7 million 2009 $5 million in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates included in operating costs: 2010 2009 $m $m UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Audit fees: Audit of annual accounts of the Company 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Audit of annual accounts of the Companys subsidiaries and associates 0.3 0.9 1.2 0.3 0.8 1.1 Review of half year financial statements 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 Audit related fees: Sustainability assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Consultation and advice on accounting standards and policies 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Non-audit fees: Tax services 0.1 0.1 0.8 1.2 2.0 0.7 1.0 1.7 In 2009 fees of $0.6 million in relation to the Rights Issue were deducted from the share premium account.
com 115 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 5 Employees The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 No.
South Africa 22,751 21,944 Europe 28 31 Rest of world 2 25 22,781 22,000 The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows: 2010 2009 Employee costs $m $m Wages and salaries 591 455 Social security costs 17 9 Pension costs 42 33 Share-based payments 9 4 659 501 The vast majority of employee costs are denominated in Rand and reported Dollar costs are therefore subject to foreign exchange movements.
2010 2009 Key management compensation $m $m Short-term employee benefits 9 9 Termination payments 2 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Key management costs excluding share-based payments 12 10 Share-based payments 2 1 14 11 The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Executive Committee Exco which comprised the three Executive Directors and five other senior managers 2009 two Executive Directors and five other senior managers.
The Sterling equivalents of total Directors emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details of Directors remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee Report.
116 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 6 Net finance costs 2010 2009 $m $m Finance income: 10 9 Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents 2 3 Other interest receivable 7 Movement in fair value of HDSA receivables note 14 3 Exchange gains on HDSA receivables note 14 3 i Exchange gains on net debt 1 Finance expenses: 9 28 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 25 15 Bank fees 20 8 ii Capitalised interest 43 23 Other finance expenses 1 Unwind of discounting on provisions note 24 6 5 i Exchange losses on net debt 23 Special items note 3 : 28 73 iii Interest on HDSA receivable notes 14 and 28 3 iii Exchange gains on HDSA receivable notes 14 and 28 11 iii Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative notes 14 and 28 12 Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of equity issuance note 29 33 Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance note 29 4 Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance 2 36 Net finance income expense 29 92 Footnotes: i Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
ii Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset.
The weighted average interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 5.7% 2009 4.8%.
iii During the year Shanduka purchased a majority shareholding in Incwala, Lonmins Black Economic Empowerment partner.
Lonmin provided a Sterling loan to assist Shanduka in funding the transaction and this has therefore given rise to foreign exchange movements and accrued interest in the period since the Sterling loan was drawn.
This facility also included an embedded derivative.
See note 28 for further details.
com 117 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 7 Taxation 2010 2009 $m $m Current tax charge excluding special items : United Kingdom tax credit 6 Current tax credit expense at 28% 2009 28% 6 33 Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available 33 Overseas current tax expense at 28% 2009 28% 8 11 Corporate tax expense current year 9 1 Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 Tax on dividends remitted 2 10 Deferred tax expense UK and overseas 78 7 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 79 7 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 12 Tax on dividends unremitted 12 Special items UK and overseas note 3 : 38 33 i Reversal of utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability 1 i Exchange on current taxation 1 5 i Exchange on deferred taxation 36 43 Tax on special items impacting profit before tax 1 6 Actual tax charge 118 51 Tax charge excluding special items note 3 80 18 Effective tax rate 49% 19% Effective tax rate excluding special items note 3 34% 16% A reconciliation of the standard tax charge to the actual tax charge was as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 % $m % $m Tax charge credit on profit loss at standard tax rate 29 70 28 76 Tax effect of: Overseas taxes on dividends remitted by subsidiary companies 1 2 ii Unutilised losses 2 5 7 18 Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits 6 14 13 35 Adjustment in respect of prior years 2 4 4 10 Impairment of available for sale financial assets 4 11 Losses in respect of Rights Issue 7 20 Other 2 4 Special items as defined above 15 37 12 33 Actual tax charge 49 118 19 51 The Groups primary operations are based in South Africa.
Therefore, the relevant standard tax rate for the Group is the South African statutory tax rate of 28% 2009 28%.
Lonmin Plc operates a branch in South Africa which is subject to a tax rate of 33% on branch profits 2009 33%.
The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies is 10% 2009 10%.
Footnotes: i Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based on Rand financial statements.
As the Groups functional currency is US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other translation differences.
The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2010 is $524 million 30 September 2009 $412 million.
ii Unutilised losses reflect losses generated in entities for which no deferred tax is provided as it is not thought probable that future profits can be generated against which a deferred tax asset could be offset or previously unrecognised losses utilised.
118 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 8 Earnings loss per share Earnings loss per share EPS LPS have been calculated on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $112 million 2009 loss $285 million using a weighted average number of 196,684,833 ordinary shares in issue 2009 174,116,102 ordinary shares.
Diluted earnings loss per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
In the 12 months to 30 September 2009 outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so were excluded from diluted loss per share in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
2010 2009 Profit for Per share Loss for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic EPS LPS 112 196,684,833 56.9 285 174,116,102 163.7 Share option schemes 489,302 0.1 Diluted EPS LPS 112 197,174,135 56.8 285 174,116,102 163.7 2010 2009 Profit for Per share Loss for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Underlying EPS LPS 138 196,684,833 70.2 103 174,116,102 59.2 Share option schemes 489,302 0.2 Diluted Underlying EPS LPS 138 197,174,135 70.0 103 174,116,102 59.2 Underlying earnings loss per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of the business.
Underlying earnings loss per share is based on the earnings loss attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude special items as defined in note 3 as follows: 2010 2009 Profit Per share Loss profit Per share for the year Number of amount for the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic EPS LPS 112 196,684,833 56.9 285 174,116,102 163.7 Special items note 3 26 13.3 182 104.5 Underlying EPS LPS 138 196,684,833 70.2 103 174,116,102 59.2 Headline earnings loss and the resultant headline earnings loss per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
These are calculated as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2010 2009 $m $m Earnings loss attributable to ordinary shareholders IAS 33 earnings 112 285 Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment note 4 5 4 Add back impairment of assets note 3 12 39 Tax related to the above items 5 Non-controlling interests 2 Headline earnings loss 122 242 2010 2009 Profit for Per share Loss for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Headline EPS LPS 122 196,684,833 62.0 242 174,116,102 139.0 Share option schemes 489,302 0.1 Diluted Headline EPS LPS 122 197,174,135 61.9 242 174,116,102 139.0 www.
com 119 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 9 Dividends No dividends were paid in the year 2009 $nil.
2010 2009 $m Cents per share $m Cents per share Prior year final dividend paid in the year Interim dividend paid in the year Total dividend paid in the year Interim dividend paid in the year Proposed final dividend for the year 30 15.0 Total dividend in respect of the year 30 15.0 10 Goodwill 2010 2009 $m $m Cost: At 30 September 186 186 Impairment: At 30 September 73 73 Net book value at 30 September 113 113 There are two cash generating units CGUs in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill.
The Marikana CGU operates as a single business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group.
The Akanani CGU is located in a separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs goodwill have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the Groups impairment policy see note 1.
At 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2009 goodwill is allocated as follows: $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU which is within the PGM Operations segment.
This arose on the buy out of 9.11% of the non-controlling interest in the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004.
$73 million tax goodwill is allocated to the Akanani CGU which is within the Evaluation segment.
This was generated on the acquisition of the Akanani asset in 2007.
120 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 11 Intangible assets 2010 2009 Exploration Exploration and Mineral and Mineral evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost: At 1 October 695 337 47 1,079 666 337 47 1,050 Additions 17 17 29 29 Transfers 2 7 6 11 At 30 September 710 344 53 1,107 695 337 47 1,079 Amortisation: At 1 October 80 35 115 73 28 101 Charge for the year 7 7 14 7 7 14 At 30 September 87 42 129 80 35 115 Net book value: At 30 September 710 257 11 978 695 257 12 964 The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $710 million 2009 $695 million relating to the exploration and evaluation operations at Akanani.
After adding $73 million of tax goodwill see note 10 and deducting deferred tax of $171 million the net carrying value of Akanani in the books is $612 million including the non-controlling interests share 2009 $601 million.
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $15 million of capitalised interest 2009 $16 million.
The Groups approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set out in the accounting policies see note 1.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill see note 10.
As part of a review of the fixed assets register, certain items of property, plant and equipment were transferred to intangible assets.
In accordance with the Group accounting policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million 2009 $13 million.
During the year the Group undertook a review of the classification of assets within its fixed assets register and this resulted in the transfer of assets between categories, including intangible assets, in addition to the normal transfers from capital work in progress.
122 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 13 Equity accounted investments The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala Resources Pty Limited which is incorporated in South Africa.
The functional currency of Incwala Resources Pty Limited is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the company are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa.
The Group equity accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity.
The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2010 2009 Group Group share of share of net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Net book value at 1 October 153 6 159 157 6 163 Share of profit 8 8 1 1 Distribution of profits 1 1 16 16 Capital contributions 3 3 5 5 Foreign exchange 3 3 6 6 Net book value at 30 September 166 6 172 153 6 159 Our share of the net assets of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2010 2009 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 145 33 178 142 18 160 Current assets 5 38 43 4 36 40 Current liabilities 3 24 27 5 9 14 Non-current liabilities 28 28 27 6 33 Net assets 119 47 166 114 39 153 Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the equity accounted investments comprise: 2010 2009 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Share of net assets 119 47 166 114 39 153 Goodwill 6 6 6 6 125 47 172 120 39 159 Our share of the profit loss of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2010 2009 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue income 5 19 24 4 21 25 Expenses including taxation 2 14 16 2 22 24 Profit loss 3 5 8 2 1 1 www.
com 123 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 14 Other financial assets Available HDSA HDSA for sale receivable derivative Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2009 68 25 93 Additions 273 12 285 Interest accrued 9 9 Movement in fair value 6 12 6 Exchange differences 11 11 At 30 September 2010 62 318 24 404 Available HDSA HDSA for sale receivable derivative Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2008 96 19 115 Movement in fair value 9 3 12 Impairment loss 39 39 Exchange differences 2 3 5 At 30 September 2009 68 25 93 Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price.
2010 2009 $m $m Listed investments 50 55 Listed investments include a 4% shareholding in Platmin Limited 2009 5% which was listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 10 August 2006.
Available for sale financial assets includes $12 million 2009 $13 million of restricted cash deposits in respect of rehabilitation obligations.
Details of the change in HDSA receivables and the HDSA derivative during the year can be found in notes 28 and 22g respectively.
15 Employee benefits The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa.
There were no accrued obligations under defined contribution plans at 30 September 2010 and 2009.
The total pension cost for the Group was $42 million 2009 $33 million, $41 million of which related to overseas schemes 2009 $32 million.
Liabilities in respect of employee benefit share schemes The Group runs a number of employee benefit share scheme plans.
The balances held on the balance sheet as employee benefits at the year end were as follows: 2010 2009 $m $m Liabilities in respect of cash settled share schemes 10 Social security on share options 1 11 During the year the Directors took the policy decision that all award schemes will be satisfied by equity shares for the foreseeable future.
As a result the balance on the liability for own shares relating to previously cash settled schemes was transferred to the reserve for own shares.
The fair values of the cash settled awards were remeasured at the date of conversion to equity settled awards.
This remeasurement had no incremental impact on the current year results.
124 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 16 Inventories 2010 2009 $m $m Consumables 50 36 Work in progress 327 230 Finished goods 19 5 396 271 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $1,114 million 2009 $994 million.
17 Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 $m $m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 316 173 Other receivables 77 99 i Prepayments and accrued income 21 15 414 287 Footnote: i Prepayments include $nil of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities 2009 $12 million.
In 2010 unamortised bank fees of $10 million have been offset against related drawn facilities.
18 Assets held for sale 2010 2009 $m $m At 1 October 6 6 Transfer to property, plant and equipment 6 At 30 September 6 Assets held for sale represented houses the Group was intending to sell to employees, within twelve months of the balance sheet date, to encourage home ownership.
As progress on disposing of these assets is not to the schedule originally intended it is now considered these assets will not be disposed of within twelve months and therefore these assets have been transferred to property, plant and equipment.
19 Trade and other payables 2010 2009 $m $m Trade payables 166 170 Accruals and other payables 205 164 Indirect taxation and social security 10 3 381 337 20 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2010 2009 $m $m Short-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 66 58 Long-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 457 349 523 407 The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 22c.
In 2009 unamortised bank fees of $12 million were shown as a prepayment where facilities had not been drawn down and therefore there was no loan balance to offset against.
In 2010 $10 million of unamortised bank fees have been offset against loans according to the amortisation profile.
com 125 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 21 Current derivative financial instruments 2010 2009 $m $m Derivative financial instruments liability asset 1 1 The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments.
Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price fluctuations.
For both 2010 and 2009 such forward sales contracts have only been made to hedge the prices of gold, nickel and copper and such contracts are typically settled within one year.
22 Financial risk management For the narrative policies regarding financial risk management refer to the Financial Review.
22a Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2010 2009 $m $m Non-current assets: HDSA receivable 318 25 HDSA derivative asset 24 Other financial assets rehabilitation deposits 12 13 Current assets: Trade receivables 316 173 Other receivables 77 99 Derivative financial instruments 1 Cash and cash equivalents 148 282 895 593 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was: 2010 2009 $m $m The Americas 5 2 Asia 5 5 Europe 246 157 South Africa 60 9 316 173 The HDSA receivable and derivative asset are a South African credit risk.
126 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 22 Financial risk management continued 22b Credit risk Consideration of the credit risk of receivables is provided in the credit risk section of the Financial Review.
Trade receivables The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: 2010 2009 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Not past due 316 316 173 173 The movement in the provision in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 $m $m Opening balance at 1 October 10 Provision utilised 5 Reversal of previous provision 5 Closing balance at 30 September Other financial assets The HDSA receivable of $318 million 2009 $25 million is not past due and has no provision against it.
In respect of the credit risk of the HDSA derivative asset of $24 million see note 22g 2009 $nil.
22c Liquidity risk Maturity of financial liabilities The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 533 606 107 391 108 Trade and other payables 381 381 381 Current derivative financial instruments 1 1 1 Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 407 443 78 260 105 Trade and other payables 337 337 337 www.
com 127 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 22 Financial risk management continued 22d Currency exposures Lonmins operations are based predominantly in South Africa with the majority of income arising in US Dollars.
Cash held in South Africa is generally denominated in US Dollars.
When short-term working capital facilities are required in South Africa these are denominated in US Dollars or South African Rand as appropriate.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the US Dollar.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
2010 2009 SA Rand Sterling Other Total SA Rand Sterling Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets: Available for sale financial assets 12 50 62 13 55 68 HDSA receivable 318 318 25 25 HDSA derivative 24 24 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 104 104 104 104 Cash and cash equivalents 49 1 50 62 33 95 Tax recoverable 1 1 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 355 16 1 372 293 14 307 Tax payable 6 6 10 10 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 11 11 13 13 Non-current liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 253 253 94 94 460 327 49 84 205 19 55 131 The principal exchange rates impacting the Groups results are Rand Dollar and Sterling Dollar.
Details of average exchange rates and closing exchange rates can be found in the Operating Statistics.
The Group also carries a $524 million Rand denominated deferred tax liability on the balance sheet which is exposed to currency risk 2009 $412 million.
128 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 22 Financial risk management continued 22e Interest rate risk Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below: Weighted average interest rate in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % $m $m $m $m Liabilities: i Unsecured bank loans 5.7 71 343 119 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets: US Dollar 289 168 98 187 SA Rand 116 143 49 62 Sterling 24 1 33 318 Other 50 55 479 366 148 282 318 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: US Dollar 9 30 270 300 SA Rand 362 303 263 107 Sterling 16 14 Other 1 388 347 533 407 Footnote: i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
com 129 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 22 Financial risk management continued 22f Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: 2010 2009 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 62 62 68 68 HDSA receivable 318 323 25 25 HDSA derivative 24 45 Trade and other receivables 393 393 272 272 Cash and cash equivalents 148 148 282 282 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 Financial assets 945 971 648 648 Trade and other payables 381 381 337 337 Unsecured bank loans 533 533 407 407 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 Tax payable 6 6 10 10 Financial liabilities 921 921 754 754 Net financial assets liabilities 24 50 106 106 Listed investments within available for sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments are marked to market.
The residual balances relate to cash deposits held in respect of rehabilitation obligations for which carrying values are at fair value.
The HDSA receivable represents loans held at amortised cost see note 28.
The HDSA derivative asset is held at fair value subject to limitations under IFRS in recognising day one gains see notes 22g and 28.
For cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
Amounts are shown gross of unamortised bank fees.
130 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 22 Financial risk management continued 22g Fair value hierarchy The following is an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
They are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the extent to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are classified as follows: Level 1 fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.
2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 50 50 HDSA derivative asset 24 24 Current derivative financial instruments 1 1 50 1 24 73 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 55 55 Current derivative financial instruments 1 1 55 1 56 There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year ended 30 September 2010.
The derivative financial asset classified at level 3 relates only to arrangements with Shanduka for Lonmin to participate in equity gains arising from Shadukas investment in Incwala see note 28.
The value of the derivative is based on the equity gain arising on Shandukas interest in Incwala and therefore the underlying value of the Platinum operations in which Incwala has an interest.
This is assessed by using a see-through valuation method based on the overall value of Lonmin Plc.
Whilst the calculation of value of the derivative instrument therefore includes a Monte Carlo analysis of Lonmins share price, the valuation is also dependant on a number of key management assumptions and must be classified as level 3 under IFRS 7.
The key management assumptions include an assessment of Lonmins share price volatility, the nature of various liquidity events which can give rise to settlement of the derivative, the likelihood of settlement occurring and the timing of the settlement event.
As at 30 September 2010 a 10% movement in share price will impact the fair value by $5 million, a 10% movement in volatility will effect the fair value by $2 million.
The fair value calculated assumes that there is only a 10% chance of the derivative being settled before the instrument becomes due at the end of five years.
If settlement were to occur in year 3, which is considered to be the earliest possible settlement date, the fair value would reduce by $6 million.
IAS 39 does not permit a day one gain to be recognised to the extent that the fair value of the hybrid financial instrument is derived from unobservable market data.
At initial recognition the fair value of the derivative was $33 million, however, this included day one gains of $21 million which are not permitted to be recognised and therefore managements assessment of the unobservable data contributing to the valuation of the asset was adjusted to eliminate the day one gain.
Subsequent to initial recognition a fair value increase of $12 million occurred in the period to 30 September 2010, increasing the carrying value of the derivative on the balance sheet to $24 million and the fair value increased to $45 million as disclosed in note 22f.
Subsequent to initial recognition, IAS 39 requires that a gain or loss shall be recognised only to the extent that it arises from a change in a factor including time that market participants would consider in setting a price.
com 131 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 23 Deferred tax assets liabilities 2010 2009 Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance Deferred tax assets liabilities in respect of: $m $m $m $m $m $m i Non-current assets 790 790 705 705 Provisions 29 29 31 31 Cash flow hedges 1 1 Trading losses 3 3 25 25 Share-based payments 6 6 6 6 39 790 751 62 705 643 Movement in temporary differences during the year Recognised in income At 1 Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Special comprehensive September 2009 movements items Underlying income 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m i Non-current assets 705 39 3 49 790 Provisions 31 2 4 29 Cash flow hedges 1 1 Trading losses 25 1 2 25 3 Share-based payments 6 6 643 36 5 78 1 751 Recognised in income At 1 Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Special comprehensive September 2008 movements items Underlying income 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m i Non-current assets 624 47 34 705 Provisions 31 4 4 31 Deferred tax on unrealised gains on available for sale financial assets 1 1 Deferred tax on dividends payable 12 12 Cash flow hedges 5 5 Trading losses 6 19 25 Share-based payments 6 6 604 43 5 7 6 643 Footnote: i Restated for prior period error as disclosed below.
Prior period correction The 2008 and 2009 deferred tax liabilities in respect of non-current assets have been restated to reflect an additional liability of $64 million which should have been recorded on transition to IFRS in 2006.
The deferred tax liability will unwind over the life of the non-current assets.
The income statement impact in any given year is not material and therefore prior year income statements have not been restated.
There are no cash implications of this adjustment.
Deferred tax liability Reserves $m $m Balance as reported at 1 October 2008 540 2,594 Correction 64 64 Restated balance at 1 October 2008 604 2,530 132 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 23 Deferred tax assets liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2010 2009 Unrecognised Unrecognised deferred tax deferred tax Temporary assets Temporary assets differences liabilities differences liabilities $m $m $m $m Capital losses carried forward 613 171 675 189 Trading and other losses carried forward 200 53 175 49 Unredeemed capital expenditure 298 83 196 55 Share-based payments 4 1 4 1 Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries 1,400 140 1,314 131 285 168 264 163 The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate in the United Kingdom at 28% 2009 28%, South Africa at 28% 2009 28% and Canada at 18% 2009 18%.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries have been calculated using the South African secondary tax rate of 10% 2009 10%.
At 30 September 2010, the Group had an amount of $111 million 2009 $113 million of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax ACT available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities.
Shadow ACT amounted to $252 million 2009 $256 million and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the trading and other losses and the capital losses as management believe the chances of recovery are low.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted foreign profits when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Generally retained profits arising in South Africa that have arisen in prior years are retained there in order to fund capital expenditure requirements.
24 Provisions 2010 2009 $m $m At 1 October 67 50 Capitalised on non-current assets 2 6 Utilised in the year 2 Unwinding of discount note 6 6 5 Exchange differences 7 6 At 30 September 80 67 Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities and generally assume the cash flows occur at the end of the life of the mine.
25 Contingent liabilities 2010 2009 $m $m i Third party guarantees 5 ii Indemnities 25 83 Preference share capital put options 23 Vantage Capital Investments 20 25 131 Footnotes: i The Group provided third party guarantees in connection with the sale of certain subsidiaries in 1996, 1997 and 1998.
Due to the passage of time, these liabilities are now considered remote.
ii During the course of the year Shanduka Resources Pty Limited Shanduka became the majority shareholder in Incwala and, as a result, the funding structure put in place at the time of the original empowerment transaction in 2004 was largely refinanced.
Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Impala has rolled R176 million $25 million of its vendor financing loans provided to the original Historically Disadvantaged South African HDSA investors in Incwala into the new structure.
Lonmin continues to indemnify Impala in respect of this loan which is due for repayment on 30 September 2011.
If called, Lonmin would assume the loan receivable increasing its balance of HDSA receivables which are secured on the shares in Incwala held through a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanduka.
All other contingent liabilities in connection with Incwala have been extinguished.
com 133 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 26 Called up share capital and share premium account Number $m Ordinary shares of $1 each: Issued and fully paid 2010 202,292,445 202 Issued and fully paid 2009 193,054,260 193 Deferred shares of 1 each: Issued and fully paid 2010 and 2009 50,000 Issued and Paid up Share fully paid amount premium Number $m $m At 1 October 2009: Ordinary shares of $1 each 193,054,260 193 776 The issue of shares pursuant to: exercises under the The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme 29,210 1 exercises under the Lonmin Share Option Scheme 8,771 exercises under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994 15,955 issue of shares to the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust Shareholder Value Incentive Plan and Stay & Prosper Plan 120,000 issue of new shares on equity placing 9,064,249 9 220 At 30 September 2010: Ordinary shares of $1 each 202,292,445 202 997 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares can be found in the Directors Report Governance.
27 Share plans At 30 September 2010, the following options and awards were outstanding: Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number outstanding contracted of options of shares options pence life years granted Share Plans Executive Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2009 200,044 1,022.21 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 29,210 400.48 Lapsed during the year 32,862 1,028.95 Outstanding at 30 September 2010 137,972 1,023.04 2.22 Exercisable at the end of the year 137,972 Lonmin Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2009 10,721 1,098.00 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 8,771 1,098.00 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30 September 2010 1,950 1,098.00 1.75 Exercisable at the end of the year 1,950 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2009 17,914 773.39 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 15,955 673.00 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30 September 2010 1,959 1,591.00 0.25 Exercisable at the end of the year 1,959 134 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 27 Share plans continued Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number outstanding contracted of options of shares options pence life years granted Long Term Incentive Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2009 644,085 Granted during the year 532,385 Exercised during the year 3,204 Lapsed during the year 96,236 Outstanding at 30 September 2010 1,077,030 2.32 15.31 Exercisable at the end of the year Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2009 87,928 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 5,848 Lapsed during the year 8,248 Outstanding at 30 September 2010 73,832 1.04 Exercisable at the end of the year i Stay & Prosper Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2009 1,566,574 Granted during the year 858,942 Exercised during the year 104,770 Lapsed during the year 192,159 Outstanding at 30 September 2010 2,128,587 1.91 15.42 Exercisable at the end of the year Footnote: i Awards granted pursuant to the Stay & Prosper Plan may be share settled or cash settled.
During the year the Directors took the policy decision that all award schemes will be satisfied by equity shares for the foreseeable future.
Further information about each of the above plans, including the performance conditions, can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust the Trust At 30 September 2010 the Trust held 131,920 shares beneficially and as bare trustee 2009 53,636 shares.
The market value of these shares at the year end was $3 million.
Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the Trust on behalf of the participants.
Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent of their Invested and Bonus Shares pursuant to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan included in the table of Directors share interests, and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted during the year The fair value of both equity settled and cash settled options granted in the year have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the following valuation models: SAYE Black-Scholes LTIP Monte Carlo DABP Monte Carlo Stay & Prosper Monte Carlo Scarce Skills Black-Scholes 2010 2009 Range of share price at date of grant 16.32 20.27 6.79 17.32 Exercise price Expected option life years 3 3 Volatility 75% 60 73% Dividend yield n a 4.4% Risk free interest rate 0.8% 1.1 2.4% Volatility was calculated with reference to the Groups historic share price volatility up to the grant date.
The number of years of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.
During the year the Directors took the decision to settle all award schemes with equity shares.
com 135 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 28 HDSA financing Lonmin fulfils its Black Economic Empowerment BEE ownership requirements through its relationship with its BEE partner, Incwala Resources Pty Ltd Incwala.
Incwala holds all of the non-controlling interests in Lonmins principal subsidiaries.
At 1 October 2009 Lonmin was owed $25 million vendor financing from the original HDSA investors in Incwala.
In the year a further $59 million was paid in respect of guarantees on behalf of the original HDSA investors, as disclosed in the 2010 interim financial statements, in exchange for additional HDSA receivables of this value.
On 8 July 2010, Lonmin entered into an agreement to provide financing for Shandukas acquisition, at fair value, of 50.03% of shares in Incwala from the original HDSA shareholders.
Lonmin advanced a loan HDSA receivable of $304 million or 200 million denominated in Sterling which included the roll-forward of receivables from the original HDSA investors and accrued interest.
The terms of the financing provided by Lonmin to Shanduka include the accrual of interest on the HDSA receivable at market rates based on a principal value of 200 million $304 million which is repayable after 5 years including accrued interest, or earlier at Shandukas discretion, and a mechanism for returning additional value to Lonmins shareholders in the event of Shanduka realising value through its investment in Lonmin.
In presenting these financial statements, the Directors specifically reviewed the balance of risk and reward accruing to each of Lonmin and Shanduka as a result of this mechanism.
These financing arrangements constitute, for accounting purposes under IAS 39, a hybrid financial instrument.
As permitted under IAS 39, the Directors have determined that it is appropriate to account for this financial instrument by splitting it into two components the HDSA receivable being an amortised cost asset and a financial derivative.
The Directors have commissioned an independent valuation of the hybrid instrument and its components to arrive at the appropriate figures for fair value on initial recognition and subsequently for the derivative at 30 September 2010 see note 22g.
29 Rights Issue in prior year On 11 May 2009, Lonmin Plc announced a fully underwritten 2 for 9 Rights Issue of 35.1 million new ordinary shares at 9.00 per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and at R113.04 per new share for shareholders on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The offer period commenced on 15 May 2009 and closed for acceptance on 4 June 2009.
The issue was successful and raised as planned net proceeds of $458 million.
The transaction comprised cash proceeds of $516 million received at spot rates and deductions of a $33 million special loss on settlement of forward exchange contracts used to cover the net Sterling amounts expected, $21 million costs of issue charged to share premium and $4 million of special foreign exchange losses on retranslation of advance cash proceeds.
Lonmin Plc raised equity from the issue in both Sterling and Rand.
The functional currency of the Company is US Dollar.
This resulted in a variable amount of cash being raised.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, as adopted by the EU at the time of publication, required the recognition of a derivative liability of $307 million.
The fair value of this liability increased by $36 million to the point of exercise due to variations in foreign exchange rates and share price.
This loss was charged to finance expenses in the income statement as a special item.
On the exercise of the rights the derivative liability was extinguished and the cumulative $343 million liability was reversed to retained earnings creating a net gain of $36 million in reserves, resulting in a net $nil effect on retained earnings.
The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 32 which was adopted by the EU subsequent to the signing of the 2009 year end accounts.
Under this amendment no derivative liability and associated fair value remeasurements would have been recognised.
Since the net effect on retained earnings is $nil the Directors have decided not to adopt the amendment early and so not to restate the 2009 comparative figures.
For a more detailed explanation of the Rights Issue transaction see note 29 in the 2009 year end financial statements.
30 Related party transactions The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management as disclosed in the Remuneration Report and in note 5 and its equity accounted investments note 13.
The Groups related party transactions are summarised below: 2010 2009 $m $m Purchases from joint venture Pandora 42 39 Amounts due from joint venture Pandora 1 15 Amounts due from associate Incwala 2 2 i Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association 12 12 ii Purchases made from Xstrata 2 ii Sales to Xstrata 5 ii Amounts due to Xstrata 2 ii Amounts due from Xstrata 4 Amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala note 28 342 25 All related party transactions are priced on an arms length basis.
Footnotes: i The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association of which Lonmin is a member.
ii Xstrata Zinc BV has a 24.9% shareholding in Lonmin Plc.
136 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 31 Capital commitments 2010 2009 $m $m Contracted for but not yet provided 101 47 32 Operating and finance leases The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below: Land and buildings 2010 2009 $m $m Operating leases which fall due for payment: Within one year 1 1 Between one and five years 1 1 2 33 Net debt as defined by the Group Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non cash 30 September 2009 Cash flow movements 2010 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 282 135 1 148 Current borrowings 58 13 71 Non-current borrowings 349 113 462 Unamortised bank fees 12 2 10 Net debt as defined by the Group 113 261 1 375 Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non cash 30 September 2008 Cash flow movements 2009 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 226 83 27 282 Current borrowings 58 58 Non-current borrowings 529 180 349 Unamortised bank fees 12 12 Net debt as defined by the Group 303 205 15 113 Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
34 Principal Group companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Interest in ordinary Country of share capital Company incorporation % Principal activities Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Akanani Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration and evaluation A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
com 137 LONMIN PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET as at 30 September 2010 2009 Note $m $m Fixed assets Tangible assets 36 2 1 Investments: 1,745 1,434 Shares in subsidiary undertakings 37 1,400 1,406 Other financial assets 38 345 28 Fixed assets 1,747 1,435 Current assets Deferred tax assets 39 1 5 Debtors 40 694 550 Cash at bank and in hand 10 164 Current assets 705 719 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 41 706 698 Net current liabilities assets 1 21 Total assets less current liabilities 1,746 1,456 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 41 7 6 Bank loans and overdrafts 7 Other creditors 6 Net assets 1,739 1,450 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 42 202 193 Share premium account 42 997 776 Capital redemption reserve 42 88 88 Profit and loss account 42 452 393 Total equity shareholders funds 42 1,739 1,450 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 November 2010 and were signed on its behalf by: Roger Phillimore Chairman Alan Ferguson Chief Financial Officer 138
