Shareholder Information Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg Dividend Reinvestment Plan stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available through also traded in an over-the-counter OTC market in the USA.
which eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Eligible shareholders UK share register information on the registers on the record date for the recommended final All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the dividend, 14 January 2011, may participate in the plan in Companys UK share register, with the exception of those held respect of that dividend, provided their application forms are on the South African branch register.
The register is administered received by 14 January 2011 in the case of shareholders on by Equiniti Registrars formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars.
the UK register and by 28 January 2011 for shareholders on You can access information about your shareholding the South African branch register.
Copies of the DRIP brochure including balance movements and dividend payments on and application form have been sent to eligible shareholders Shareview, an electronic communications service provided by on the registers up to 11 July 2008 and are being sent to those Equiniti.
It also allows you to change your registered address entered on the registers between this date and 14 January 2011. details, set up a dividend mandate, vote at general meetings Further copies are available from the registrars or can be and register to receive Company communications downloaded from the registrars website.
To register for this free service, visit www.
co. uk UK SA and follow the simple instructions.
You will need your USD rand exchange rate 30 December 2010 shareholder reference number, which can be found on your Last day to trade share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
cum div 11 January 2011 7 January 2011 South African branch register information Last day to trade The South African branch register is administered by Link on the JSE 7 January 2011 Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd. Ex div date 12 January 2011 10 January 2011 Contact details for both the UK and South African Record date 14 January 2011 14 January 2011 registrars can be found in Corporate Information on page 151.
USD sterling exchange rate To be advised Dividends Deadline for receipt The Company declares dividends in US Dollars.
Subject of DRIP applications 14 January 2011 28 January 2011 to shareholder approval, the final dividend of 15 US cents per Dividend payment share for the year ended 30 September 2010 will be paid on date 11 February 2011 11 February 2011 11 February 2011 to shareholders on the registers at the close of business on 14 January 2011.
The dividend will be paid in Sterling to UK shareholders unless they elect to receive their dividend in US Dollars and in Rand to shareholders on the SA American Depository Receipts ADRs branch register.
The Sterling equivalent of the dividend will be The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for announced after the Company has finalised the conversion which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
The Rand equivalent of the dividend will be based on Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the Company.
the mid market US Dollar to Rand exchange rate at noon on The ADRs trade in the OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
The dividend will be paid in US Dollars to When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depository all other overseas shareholders unless they elect to receive makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to ADR holders.
Sterling dividends or have mandated their dividend payments Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on to a UK bank or participate in TAPS.
Elections to receive an page 151. alternative currency US Dollars or Sterling should comprise a Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders signed request to Equiniti at the address shown on page 151 Capital Gains Tax to be received by 5 p. m. on 14 January 2011.
No transfers will For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares be permitted between the UK principal register and the SA in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, branch register from the date on which the Rand dividend is who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base announced until the record date, both dates inclusive i. e. the cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two last date on which transfers between registers will be permitted companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 is 29 December 2010. of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would Dividend payment to your bank account be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Company can pay UK registered shareholders dividends The Companys capital reduction was completed on direct to their bank or building society account.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to that dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of same day as the payment is made and tax vouchers will be the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital posted the shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary wishing to adopt this method of payment should log on to shares of $1 each.
co. uk or contact the registrars.
Contact details The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March can be found in Corporate Information on page 151.
1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Transcontinental Automated Payment System TAPS Companys shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998 and receive dividend payments to their local bank and in their local 266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full currency.
All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June 2009. information on TAPS by Equiniti.
com 149 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the Warning to shareholders Rights Issue but who instead sold some or all of their rights A survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin Plc reported that an increasing number of shareholders of UK ordinary shares and should seek independent tax advice as to listed companies are being targeted by individuals their liability for capital gains tax in the event they sell their purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account ISAs unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited offers offers of free reports on the Company.
the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for the investment If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: of Lonmin Plc shares.
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin organisation and make a record of any other information Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently of 7,200 in cash they give you, e. g. telephone number, address, etc.
or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA of the release from a Sharesave Scheme.
However, from before getting involved.
You can check at 6 October 2009, investors aged 50 or over on or before www.
5 April 2010 may invest up to 10,200 in the current tax year.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of From 6 April 2010, the new allowance of 10,200 will apply unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have to all investors.
targeted, UK investors and any approach from such Contact details can be found in Corporate Information organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this on page 151.
Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate Limited is regulated by the FSA.
This is not a recommendation action can be considered.
that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you would of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt should Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can, consult their financial adviser.
preferably, be contacted by completing an on-line form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts ShareGift overseas.
shtml or, if you do not have access to the Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity internet, on 0845 606 1234. share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those listed on the following page.
They are not able to shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the investigate such incidents themselves but will record value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the details and pass them on to the FSA.
the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from the Companys website.
