04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OVERVIEW: Our operations inCreasing oUr reaCh oUr operations We are one of the worlds largest mining companies.
Our portfolio of high quality mining assets and natural resources includes platinum group metals and diamonds, with significant interests in copper, iron ore, metallurgical coal, nickel and thermal coal, as well as a divestment portfolio of other mining and industrial businesses.
We operate in Africa, Europe, South and North America, Australia and Asia.
REVENUE BY ORIGIN Percentage Australia and Asia 12% South America 23% North America 2% Europe 8% South Africa 48% Other Africa 7% oUr seven CoMMoDity BUsinesses Precious Base metals platinUM DiaMonDs Copper niCkel Anglo Platinum Limited, a Independently managed DeBeers Our copper business has Nickel has two operating managed subsidiary, owns the is the worlds leading diamond interests in six operations assets, Codemin in Brazil and largest platinum reserves in the exploration, mining and marketing in Chile.
These comprise the Loma fide Nquel in Venezuela, world and is the largest primary company.
DeBeers generates wholly owned LosBronces, both producing ferronickel, as producer of platinum, accounting about 35% by value of global ElSoldado, Mantos Blancos well as the world class Barro Alto for some 40% of world supply.
rough diamond production from and Mantoverde mines, the project in Brazil.
its operations in South Africa, Chagres smelter and a 44% Primarily used in autocatalysts Botswana, Namibia and Canada.
interest in the Collahuasi mine.
More than 60% of all nickel is used and jewellery.
Also employed in in the production of stainless steel.
chemical, electrical, electronic, The largest diamond jewellery Used mainly in wire and cable, Around 25% is used to make glass and petroleum industries market is the United States, brass, tubing and pipes, air other types of steel and for and medical applications.
followed by Japan, Europe, conditioning and refrigeration.
super-alloys, which can withstand China and India.
Share of Group 2 operating profit $837 m $495 m $2,817 m $96 m 9% 5% 29% 1% 2009 $32 m, 1% 2009 $64 m, 1% 2009 $2,010 m, 41% 2009 $2 m, 0.04% Average 3 number of 52 16 4 2 employees 1 000 For more information, see page 54 or visit: For more information, see page 58 or visit: For more information, see page 62 or visit: For more information, see page 66 or visit: www.
com 1 Excluding contractors and associates employees and including a proportionate share of employees within joint venture entities.
2 DeBeers results are shown as share of associates operating profit.
3 fide Beers is an independently managed associate.
Employee numbers shown represent the average number of employees in DeBeers managed operations, including 100% of employees in fide Beers underlying joint ventures 4 Consideration on a debt and cash free basis, as announced.
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 05 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 where we operate REVENUE BY ORIGIN Percentage Australia and Asia 12% Headquarters Corporate and representative offices North America Africa South America 23% North America 2% London, United Kingdom Beijing, China Luxembourg Europe 8% Brisbane, Australia New Delhi, India South Africa 48% Johannesburg, South Africa Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil South America Australia and Asia Other Africa 7% Kinshasa, DRC Santiago, Chile So Paulo, Brazil oUr seven CoMMoDity BUsinesses Bulk Other Mining and Industrial iron ore MetallUrgiCal therMal other Mining anD Manganese Coal Coal anD inDUstrial We are the worlds fourth Our metallurgical coal business In South Africa, our thermal Our programme to divest largest iron ore producer, with a is Australias fourth biggest coal business owns and operates of non-core businesses is large high-quality resource base producer of coal and its number nine mines.
In Colombia, we well advanced.
During 2010, in South Africa and Brazil.
two exporter of metallurgical have a one third shareholding Anglo American completed coal.
We are active partners in with BHP Billiton and Xstrata the divestment of a number Key component in steel, the most diverse clean coal energy each owning one-third in of non-core businesses with 4 widely used of all metals.
Cerrjon, Colombias largest announced proceeds of steel consumption is forecast to thermal coal exporter.
grow in excess of 5% pa over the Key raw material for 70% of the next three years.
Demand is About 40% of all electricity driven by economic, industrial generated globally is powered by and steel growth.
About 5.1 billion tonnes of thermal coal are produced globally each year.
