172 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces IntroductIon The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this Annual Report It is accepted that mine design and planning may include a portion of Inferred are prepared in accordance with the Anglo American plc AA plc Reporting of Mineral Resources.
Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of Mine LOM are Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves standard.
This standard described as Inferred in LOM separately from the remaining Inferred Mineral requires that the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources described as Inferred ex.
These resources are Resources and Ore Reserves 2004 edition the JORC Code be used as a minimum declared without application of any modifying factors.
Some Anglo American plc subsidiaries have a primary listing in South Operations and projects which fall below the internal threshold 25% attributable Africa where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African interest for reporting have been excluded from the Ore Reserves and Mineral Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Resources estimates.
A number of assets were disposed of during 2010 hence the SAMREC Code.
The SAMREC Code is similar to the JORC Code and the Ore the following operations and projects are not reported in 2010: Skorpion, Taroom, Reserve and Mineral Resource terminology appearing in this section follows the Dawson & Harcourt CBM and Guasre.
definitions in both the JORC 2004 and SAMREC 2007 Codes.
In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act, Number The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared by or 28 of 2002 MPRDA was implemented on 1 May 2004, and effectively transferred under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the JORC or SAMREC custodianship of the previously privately held mineral rights to the State.
All Competent Persons have sufficient experience relevant to the style of companies were given up to two years to apply for prospecting permit conversions mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which they and five years to apply for mining licence conversions for existing operations.
All the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the information in the form and context in which it appears.
The names of the A Prospecting Right is a new order right issued in terms of the MPRDA that is valid Competent Persons are lodged with the Anglo American plc Company Secretary for up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension of three years, that can and are available on request.
be obtained either by the conversion of existing Old Order Prospecting Rights or through new applications.
An Exploration Right is identical to a Prospecting Right, Anglo American Group companies are subject to a comprehensive programme but is commodity specific in respect of petroleum and gas and is valid for up to three of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of Ore Reserve and Mineral years which can be renewed for a maximum of three periods not exceeding two Resource estimates.
The reviews are conducted by suitably qualified Competent years each.
Persons from within the Anglo American Group, or by independent consultants.
The frequency and depth of the reviews is a function of the perceived risks and or A Mining Right is a new order right issued in terms of the MPRDA valid for up to uncertainties associated with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource, the 30 years obtained either by the conversion of an existing Old Order Mining Right, overall value thereof and time that has lapsed since an independent third party or as anew order right pursuant to the exercise of the exclusive right of the holder review has been conducted.
Those operations projects subject to independent of a new order Prospecting Right, or pursuant to an application for a new Mining third party reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes to the tables.
AProduction Right is identical to a Mining Right, but is commodity specific in respect of petroleum and gas.
The JORC and SAMREC Codes require the use of reasonable economic assumptions.
These include long-range commodity price forecasts which are In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement for South African prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future supply and assets, Anglo American plc has adopted the following reporting principles in respect demand and long term economic outlooks.
Ore Reserve estimates are dynamic and of Prospecting Rights and Mining Rights: are influenced by changing economic conditions, technical issues, environmental regulations and relevant new information and therefore can vary from year to year.
Where applications for new order Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have Mineral Resource estimates also change and tend to be influenced mostly by new been submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant regulatory information pertaining to the understanding of the deposit and secondly by the authorities, the relevant reserves and resources have been included in the conversion to Ore Reserves.
statement Where applications for new order Prospecting Rights have been initially refused The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as at 31 December by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject of ongoing legal process and 2010.
Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Resources are additional to those resources discussions with the relevant authorities and where Anglo American plc has which have been modified to produce the Ore Reserves and are reported on a dry reasonable expectations that the Prospecting Rights will be granted in due tonnes basis.
The figures in the tables have been rounded and, if used to derive totals course, therelevant resources have been included in the statement any and averages, could cause minor computational differences.
Ore Reserves in the associated comments appear in the footnotes.
context of this Annual Report have the same meaning as Mineral Reserves as defined by the SAMREC Code.
DEFINITIONS A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, knowledge.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a high level of confidence.
A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
It It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological and grade continuity.
modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a reasonable level of confidence.
It is based on exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
The locations are circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm geological and or grade continuity but are spaced which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried closely enough for continuity to be assumed.
out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
