Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 99 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 2.
RemuneRation policy 3. elements of executive half of 2010 that this was a sensible point at on executive DiRectoR DiRectoR RemuneRation which to review the current shortand longRemuneRation term incentive levels of executives to ensure 3.1 Remuneration mix that they remain market competitive.
PwC The Companys remuneration policy is Each executive directors total remuneration were retained to provide external advice in formulated to attract and retain high-calibre consists of salary, annual bonus, long-term this respect.
executives and to motivate them to develop incentives and benefits.
An appropriate and implement the Companys business balance is maintained between fixed and The review found that the incentive strategy in order to optimise long-term performance-related remuneration and opportunity for executives had fallen to levels shareholder value creation.
The Committee between elements linked to short-term that were uncompetitive when measured intends that this policy will continue to apply financial performance and those linked to against FTSE 30 market practice.
Whilst for 2011 and subsequent years, subject to longer-term shareholder value creation.
sensitive to shareholder concerns about ongoing review as appropriate.
The policy is the use of benchmarking in setting framed around the following key principles: Assuming on-target performance, the remuneration levels, the Committee feel it Committees policy is that at least 50% necessary to ensure that incentive levels Total rewards will be set at levels that are 60% for Cynthia Carroll of each executive remain appropriate to attract, retain and sufficiently competitive to enable the directors remuneration is  the senior management of a recruitment and retention of high-calibre related.
In 2010, 72% of the chief executives geographically diverse and operationally executives and 71% of the finance directors complex group.
The recommendations Incentive-based rewards will be earned remuneration on an expected-value basis from this review the Review are set out in through the achievement of demanding was performance-related as shown in more detail under the relevant remuneration performance conditions consistent with Figure 2 on page 100. headings below.
It is expected that the shareholder interests incentive opportunities proposed will The Bonus Share Plan BSP and the Long remainin effect for the foreseeable future.
Incentive plans, performance measures and Term Incentive Plan LTIP are designed to targets will be structured to operate soundly align the longer-term interests of shareholders 3.2 Basic salary throughout the business cycle and executives and to underpin the Companys The basic salary of the executive directors The design of long-term incentives will be performance culture.
The Committee isreviewed annually and is targeted at the prudent and will not expose shareholders to monitors the relevance and appropriateness market median of companies of comparable unreasonable financial risk of the performance measures and targets size, market sector, business complexity applicable to both plans.
Further details of and international scope.
This is adjusted In considering the market positioning of the BSP and the LTIP are set out on pages either way based on experience and other reward elements, account will be taken of 100 to 103. relevant factors.
The market for executives the performance of the Company and of the of main-board calibre, in large international individual executive director Incentive levels are set taking account of mining companies in particular, has continued Reward practice will conform to best the median expected value of long-term to be very competitive in recent years and it practice standards as far as reasonably incentives relative to other companies of is therefore deemed sensible to position practicable a similar size.
basic salary for executive directors at no lower than the median point.
Company Representatives of the Companys principal Shareholder approval for the current LTIP performance, individual performance and investors are consulted on material changes to expires in May 2011 and a new LTIP will be put changes in responsibilities are also taken remuneration policy.
to shareholders at the AGM in April 2011.
The into consideration in setting salary levels Committee therefore decided in the second each year.
Figure 1: External advice provided to the Committee Advisers Other services provided to the Company  LLP Appointed by the Company, with the Investment advisers, actuaries and auditors PwC agreement of the Committee, to provide for various pension schemes: advisers on specialist valuation services and market internal audit projects: taxation, payroll and remuneration data executive compensation advice Linklaters LLP Appointed by the Company, with the Legal advice on certain corporate matters Linklaters agreement of the Committee, to provide legal advice on long-term incentives and directors service contracts Mercer Limited Engaged by the Committee to review the Investment advisers and actuaries for various Mercer Committees processes on an annual basis, pension schemes in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration processes the Committee has followed are in line with stated policy and that the Committee has operated within its Terms of Reference Deloitte LLP In their capacity as Group auditors, Deloitte Deloitte undertake an audit of sections 10 and 11 of the remuneration report annually.
However, they provide no advice to the Committee
