Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 350 Brazil 522 Taiwan 592 Italy 610 India 830 South Korea 1,050 Japan 1,343 Germany 1,745 USA 7,368 China 63 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 LEADING COPPER CONSUMERS BUsiness overview With no fundamental technological shifts expected in the short to medium term, 2010 rened copper consumption We have interests in six copper operations in forecast long term demand is likely to be Kt Chile.
The wholly owned operations comprise underpinned by robust growth in coppers 2010 World Total: 19,303 kt the Los Bronces, El Soldado, Mantos Blancos electrical uses, particularly wire and cable in and Mantoverde mines as well as the Chagres construction, automobiles and electricity smelter: while we have a 44% interest in infrastructure.
The key growth area will the Collahuasi mine where the other continue to be the developing world, led by shareholders are Xstrata with 44%, and a China and, in the longer term, India, where Mitsui consortium holding the balance of industrialisation and urbanisation on a huge 12%.
The mines also produce associated scale continue to propel copper demand by-products such as molybdenum and silver.
growth, and where copper consumption In addition, we have interests in two projects in per capita remains well below that of the Peru a controlling interest in Quellaveco and advanced economies.
Michiquillay and a 50% interest in the Pebble project in Alaska.
What has really distinguished copper in recent times as reflected in its strong price performance has been its inDUstry overview underperformance on the supply side, which is supporting more robust fundamentals for Coppers principal use is in the wire and cable the metal.
Copper mine output has suffered markets because of the metals electrical disproportionately from a range of constraints Source: Brook Hunt a Wood Mackenzie company conductivity and corrosion resistance.
on output, including a long term decline in ore Applications that make use of coppers grades, slow ramp-ups at new projects, electrical conductivity, such as wire including strikes, technical failures and adverse weather.
wiring used in buildings, cables and electrical connectors, make up around 60% of total Constraints on the supply side are likely demand.
Coppers corrosion-resistant to prove a structural feature of the market, qualities find numerous applications, driven by continuing declines in ore grades particularly plumbing pipe and roof sheeting, at maturing existing operations and new in the construction industry, which accounts projects, a lack of capital investment and for a further 20% of demand.
Coppers under-exploration in the industry, as well as thermal conductivity also makes it suitable political and environmental challenges in for use in heat transfer applications such as new copper areas.
The industry is capital air conditioning and refrigeration, which intensive and is likely to become more so as constitute some 10% of total demand.
high grade surface deposits are exhausted Other applications include structural and and deeper and or lower grade deposits are aesthetic uses.
developed, requiring greater economies of scale in order to be commercially viable.
operating proFit Copper mining is an attractive industry, with Scarcity of water in some geographies, for 2009: $2,010 m moderate concentration of customers and example in Chile and Peru, is also enforcing suppliers, and relatively good average the construction of capitaland energyprofitability over the long term.
are price takers: hence, opportunities for $ 2,817 m product differentiation are limited, either at During the period 2000-2008, China the concentrate or metal level.
Access to increased its share of first-use refined metal quality orebodies should continue to be the consumption from 12% to an estimated 28%.
share oF groUp operating proFit key factor distinguishing project returns and The figure then leapt to 38% in 2009 as 2009: 41% mine profitability.
demand elsewhere fell sharply, while Chinas consumption continued to increase strongly.
Through 2010, prices trended higher as demand picked up, supply remained 2 9% constrained, visible inventories continued to decline and the dollar weakened.
Anticipation of physically backed copper Exchange Traded eBitDa Funds ETFs is further fuelling the bullish 2009: $2,254 m consensus surrounding copper.
