182 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces manGanESE estimates as at 31 December 2010 SamaNCOr maNgaNESE The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, The SAMREC Code, 2007 and the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as applicable.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources source: BHP Billiton.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
LOM Life of Mine in years based on scheduled Ore Reserves.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
1 GeMcO Ore reserves: Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields.
2 Hotazel Manganese Mines: An agreement has been reached between Samancor Manganese and empowerment consortium Ntsimbintle Mining Pty Ltd.
The Ntsimbintle agreement has been signed by both parties and approved by the South African Government.
This transaction allows for the inclusion of part of the Prospecting Rights held by Ntsimbintle into the Mamatwan and Wessels Mining Areas in exchange for 9% equity in Hotazel Manganese Mines Pty Ltd, thereby adding the Ore Reserves of Mamatwan and Wessels within the Ntsimbintle Prospecting Right to the Mamatwan and Wessels Mining Rights.
Section102 applications have been lodged with the South African Department of Mineral Resources DMR to amend the Mamatwan and Wessels Mining Rights areas to include the Ntsimbintle Prospecting Right.
Hotazel Manganese Mines Pty Ltd is the owner of Mamatwan and Wessels mines.
The other 26% is held by: Ntsimbintle 9%, NCAB 7%, Iziko 5% and the HMM Education Trust 5%.
The addition of other empowerment consortiums during 2010 has diluted Anglo Americans share in Hotazel Manganese Mines Pty Ltd to 29.6%.
3 Mamatwan Ore reserves: The increase is attributable to the revised wireframe used in the latest block model.
The calculation of the Ore Reserves has been aligned with the updated mine plan.
4 Wessels Ore reserves: The increase is ascribed to a revised smaller support pillar factor in the West Block 18% versus a previous factor of 25% and the new block model.
5 GeMcO Mineral resources: No additional drilling data was added during 2010.
All changes are as a result of depletion due to mining.
6 Mamatwan Mineral resources: Changes are due to the use of a new resource model now covering the entire Ntsimbintle joint venture area.
7 Wessels Mineral resources: A new resource model has been used to estimate Mineral Resources.
8 Beniomi and Bordeaux: Mn grades are for 0.15mm screen size fraction and should be read together with their respective tonnage yields.
These areas were prospected using drilling and pitting by CVRD Vale from 2003 to 2005 and subsequently by Samancor Gabon.
A programme of large diameter bucket auger and Mini sonic drilling was conducted on the Beniomi and later the Bordeaux Plateaux focused on providing Pilot Plant feed.
In addition, a regional exploration programme using RAB drill rigs was undertaken on surrounding plateaux.
Gemecs Pty Ltd prepared geological models and resource estimates for Beniomi and Bordeaux, which are the only areas for which Mineral Resources have been declared.
Pilot Plant testwork results have informed the opinion as to eventual economic viability of the Mineral Resources as reported.
The greater project comprises of a number of wide-spread prospecting permits and prospecting authorisations.
In time, the project is envisaged to include a number of shallow open pit mines located on a number of plateaux feeding a processing plant complex made up of scrubbing and DMS sections and producing both high grade lump and fine ores.
