Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 141 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 14. intangible assets continued Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are significantly affected by a number of factors including ore reserves and production estimates, together with economic factors such as commodity prices, discount rates, exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in a key assumption on which the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Cash flow projections are based on financial budgets and life of mine or non-mine production plans, incorporating key assumptions as detailed below: Reserves and resources Ore reserves and, where considered appropriate, mineral resources are incorporated in projected cash flows, based on ore reserves and mineral resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons.
Mineral resources are included where management has a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction, despite additional evaluation still being required prior to meeting the requirements of reserve classification.
For further information refer to the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources section of the Annual Report.
Commodity prices Commodity prices are based on latest internal forecasts for commodity prices, benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within the range of available analyst forecasts.
Where existing sales contracts are in place, the effects of such contracts are taken into account in determining future cash flows.
Operating costs and capital expenditure Operating costs and capital expenditure are based on financial budgets covering a three year period.
Cash flow projections beyond three years are based on life of mine plans or non-mine production plans as applicable, and internal management forecasts.
Cost assumptions incorporate management experience and expectations, as well as the nature and location of the operation and the risks associated therewith.
Non-commodity based businesses For non-commodity based businesses, margin and revenue are based on financial budgets covering a three year period.
Beyond the financial budget, revenue is forecast using a steady growth rate consistent with the markets in which those businesses operate, and for those periods five years or more from the balance sheet date, at a rate not exceeding the long term growth rate for the country of operation.
Discount rates Cash flow projections are discounted based on a real post-tax discount rate of 6% 2009: 6%.
Adjustments to the rate are made for any risks that are not reflected in the underlying cash flows or to calculate an equivalent pre-tax rate where appropriate.
Foreign exchange rates Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts for foreign exchange, benchmarked with external sources of information and relevant countries of operation.
2 Includes $11,190 million 2009: $8,189 million of assets in the course of construction, which are not depreciated.
3 Relates to Iron Ore Brazil.
4 Includes $1,888 million 2009: $1,711 million of depreciation within operating profit see note 3 and $97 million 2009: nil of accelerated depreciation see note 5.
5 Relates mainly to amounts transferred from assets in the course of construction.
Included in the additions above is $247 million 2009: $246 million of net interest expense incurred on borrowings funding the construction of qualifying assets which has been capitalised during the year.
