190 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces coal continued estimates as at 31 December 2010 OTHEr mININg aND INDuSTrIal The Coal Reserve and Coal Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
Where relevant, the estimates were also prepared in compliance with regional codes and requirements e. g. National Instrument 43-101.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Coal Reserves and Coal Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
The Other Mining and Industrial OMI Coal mines and projects are located in Canada.
LOM Life of Mine in years based on scheduled Coal Reserves.
For the multi-product operations, the ROM tonnage figures apply to each product.
The Saleable tonnage cannot be calculated directly from the ROM reserve tonnage using the air dried yields as presented since the difference in moisture content is not taken into account.
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Saleable tonnes and should not be directly applied to the ROM tonnage.
export Thermal refers to lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation: quality measured by calorific value CV.
coking refers to a high-, mediumor low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in steel industry: quality measured as crucible swell number CSN.
1 Coal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine ROM reserve tonnage basis which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant.
Saleable reserve tonnage represents the product tonnes produced.
Coal Reserves ROM and Saleable are on the applicable moisture basis.
For the 2009 Reported and Attributable figures, please refer to the 2009 Annual Report.
3 The tonnage is quoted as metric tonnes.
ROM tonnages on an As Delivered moisture basis, and Saleable tonnages on a Product moisture basis.
4 Yield ROM % represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis whereas Plant % is based on the Feed to Plant tonnes.
The product yields ROM % for Proved, Probable and Total are calculated by dividing the individual Saleable reserves by the total ROM reserves per classification.
5 The coal quality for the Coal Reserves is quoted as either Calorific Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis or Crucible Swell Number CSN.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Coking, Other Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specifications for coking coal, PCI, metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specifications of the individual supply contracts.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg and CSN to the nearest 0.5 index.
6 Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnage In-Situ MTIS basis in million tonnes which are in addition to those resources which have been modified to produce the reported Coal Reserves.
Coal Resources are on an in-situ moisture basis.
7 The coal quality for the Coal Resources is quoted on an in-situ heat content as Calorific Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg.
8 Inferred in LOM refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine extraction schedule of the respective collieries and are not reported as Coal Reserves.
Inferred Coal Resources outside the LOM plan but within the mine lease area are not reported due to the uncertainty attached to such resources in that it cannot be assumed that all or part of the Inferred Resource will necessarily be upgraded to Indicated or Measured categories through continued exploration, such Inferred Resources do not necessarily meet the requirements of reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction, particularly in respect of future mining and processing economics.
summary of material changes 10% at reporting level Trend: The decrease in resources is the result of a larger reserves pit which was used resulting in more resources being transferred into mine plan -2.4Mt and an updated geological model being completed -0.7Mt.
