Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 179 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces nIckEl estimates as at 31 December 2010 NICkEl The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
LOM Total inferred THE MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
LOM Life of Mine in years based on scheduled Ore Reserves.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
1 Barro Alto: Ore from Barro Alto is currently being processed at the Codemin plant.
The pit has been re-optimised and re-scheduled at a higher nickel price which resulted in higher Ore Reserves being declared.
Less than 1% of the Inferred in LOM is scheduled to be mined in the first three years and less than 10% in the first 10 years.
Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9% Ni cut-off and below an iron content of 30% Fe.
In addition due to new information, a total of 2.6Mt with an average grade of 1.68% Ni was added to the Ore Reserves and 4.4Mt with an average grade of 1.68% Ni was added to the Mineral Resources.
The Mineral Resources were diminished by the conversion of material to Ore Reserves.
The Mineral Resources include 8.7Mt of Ferruginous Laterite at an average grade of 1.21% Ni.
2 loma fide nquel: The single largest component contributing to the decrease in Ore Reserves is due to the recognition of the loss of rights over 13 of 16 mining concession areas 28.4Mt with an average grade of 1.42% Ni.
Refer to note 5 in the Financial statements.
The three remaining mining concessions are due for renewal in November 2012.
This reduction was partially offset by model refinement, following a new drilling campaign, within the Camedas 1, Sector North where Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves increased significantly.
Mineral Resources include all mineralisation inside a saprolite envelope defined by nickel and iron grade boundaries 0.80% Ni and 35% Fe.
3 niquelndia: The change in Ore Reserves is the exclusive result of conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves within the new integrated mine plan that envisages blending of Barro Alto ores and Niquelndia ores.
The Mineral Resources decrease as a result of the higher percentage converted to Ore Reserves due to the integration of the mine plans.
Previously referred to as Codemin-Niquelndia, Codemin being the ferronickel smelter adjacent to the Niquelndia Mine.
4 Jacar: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9% Ni cut-off and greater than 1.5m thickness.
The resource model has been updated following further drilling.
The Plano fide Aproveitamento Economico PAE is currently under consideration by Brazils Departamento Nacional fide Produo Mineral DNPM.
The Saprolite Resources tabulated are a combination of higher-grade resources 1.3% Ni that are expected to feed a pyrometallurgical treatment facility and lower-grade resources 1.3% 0.9% Ni that could be used to neutralise the acid in the proposed treatment of the Ferruginous Laterite material.
Ferruginous Laterite is envisaged to be treated by hydrometallurgical processes.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statements were carried out by independent consultants during 2010 at the following operations: Barro Alto, Niquelndia.
