Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 165 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 34. contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Additionally, and as set out in the 2007 demerger agreement, Anglo American and the Mondi Group have agreed to indemnify each other, subject to certain limitations, against certain liabilities.
Having taken appropriate legal advice, the Group believes that the likelihood of a material liability arising is remote.
At 31 December 2010, the Group and its subsidiaries had provided aggregate amounts of $813 million 2009: $704 million of loan and performance guarantees to banks and other third parties primarily in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.
For information relating to contingent liabilities in respect of associates and joint ventures refer to notes 17 and 18 respectively.
No contingent liabilities were secured on the assets of the Group at 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
Contingent assets There were no significant contingent assets in the Group at 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
Other Kumba Iron Ore Limited Kumba Kumbas Sishen Iron Ore Company SIOC notified ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited ArcelorMittal on 5 February 2010, that it was no longer entitled to receive 6.25 Mtpa of iron ore contract mined by SIOC at cost plus 3% from Sishen Mine, as a result of the fact that ArcelorMittal had failed to convert its old order mining right.
This contract mining agreement, concluded in 2001, was premised on ArcelorMittal owning an undivided 21.4% interest in the mineral rights of Sishen Mine.
As a result of ArcelorMittals failure to convert its old order mining right, the contract mining agreement automatically lapsed and became inoperative in its entirety as of 1May2009.
As a result, a dispute arose between SIOC and ArcelorMittal, which SIOC has referred to arbitration.
SIOC and ArcelorMittal reached an interim pricing arrangement in respect of the supply of iron ore to ArcelorMittal from Sishen Mine.
This arrangement will endure until 31 July 2011.
Both parties have exchanged their respective pleadings, and the arbitration panel has been appointed.
After ArcelorMittal failed to convert its old order mining right, SIOC applied for the residual 21.4% mining right previously held by ArcelorMittal and its application was accepted by the Department of Mineral Resources DMR on 4 May 2009.
A competing application for a prospecting right over the same area was also accepted by the DMR.
SIOC objected to this acceptance.
Notwithstanding this objection, a prospecting right over the 21.4% interest was granted by the DMR to Imperial Crown Trading 289 Proprietary Limited ICT.
SIOC initiated a review application in the North Gauteng High Court on 21 May 2010 in relation to the decision of the DMR to grant a prospecting right to ICT.
SIOC initiated an application on 14 December 2010 to interdict ICT from applying for a mining right in respect of Sishen Mine and the DMR from accepting an application from ICT, or granting such 21.4% mining right to ICT pending the final determination of the review application.
This application is currently pending.
The DMR informed SIOC on 12 January 2011 that ICT had applied for a 21.4% mining right over Sishen Mine on 9 December 2010, and that the DMR had accepted this application on 23 December 2010.
The DMRs acceptance of the application means that the mining right application will now be evaluated according to the detailed process stipulated in the Mineral Resources & Petroleum Development Act 2004 before a decision is made as to whether or not to grant the mining right.
SIOC does not believe that it was lawful for the DMR to have accepted ICTs application, pending the High Court Review initiated in May 2010, and has formally objected to, and appealed against, the DMRs acceptance of ICTs mining right application.
SIOC has also requested that its interdict application be determined on an expedited basis, in order to prevent the DMR from considering ICTs mining right application until the finalisation of the review proceedings.
In addition, SIOC is in the process of preparing a challenge against the DMRs decision of 25 January 2011 to reject SIOCs May 2009 application to be granted the residual 21.4% mining right.
Finally, on 26January 2011, SIOC lodged a new application for the residual 21.4% mining right.
On 4 February 2011 SIOC made an application to join ArcelorMittal as a respondent in the review proceedings.
SIOC will continue to take the necessary steps to protect its shareholders interests in this regard.
Anglo American South Africa Limited AASA AASA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in 25 separate lawsuits, each one on behalf of a former mineworker or his dependents or survivors who allegedly contracted silicosis working for gold mining companies in which AASA was a shareholder and to which AASA provided various technical and administrative services.
The aggregate amount of the 25 claims is less than $5 million, although if these claims are determined adversely to AASA, there are a substantial number of additional former mineworkers who may seek to bring similar claims.
The first trials of these claims are not expected before late 2012.
