Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 183 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces coal estimates as at 31 December 2010 mETallurgICal COal The Coal Reserve and Coal Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Coal Reserves and Coal Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal comprises export metallurgical and thermal coal operations located in Australia.
LOM Life of Mine in years based on scheduled Coal Reserves.
For the multi-product operations, the ROM tonnage figures apply to each product.
The Saleable tonnage cannot be calculated directly from the ROM reserve tonnage using the air dried yields as presented since the difference in moisture content is not taken into account.
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Saleable tonnes and should not be directly applied to the ROM tonnage.
Additional footnotes appear at the end of the section.
export Thermal refers to lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation: quality measured by calorific value CV.
coking refers to a high-, mediumor low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in steel industry: quality measured as crucible swell number CSN.
Other Metallurgical refers to semi soft, soft, hard, semi-hard or anthracite coal, other than Coking Coal, such as pulverized coal injection PCI or other general metallurgical coal for the export or domestic market with a wider range of properties than Coking Coal.
domestic Power refers to lowto high-volatile thermal or semi-soft coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation: quality measured by calorific value CV.
