Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 113 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 The Business Principles are supplemented politiCal donations additional information by four Anglo American Way documents, for shareholders covering the safety, environmental, No political donations were made during 2010. occupational health and social aspects Anglo American has an established policy of Set out below is a summary of certain of sustainable development.
These set not making donations to, or incurring expenses provisions of the Companys current Articles out specific standards for each of these for the benefit of, any political party in any part of Association the Articles and applicable subject areas.
of the world, including any political party or English law concerning companies the political organisation as defined in the Political Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our Business Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. required as a result of the implementation of Principles and the Anglo American Way the Takeovers Directive in English law.
This is documents are available from the Company a summary only and the relevant provisions of and may be accessed on the Companys annual general meeting the Articles or the Companies Act should be website at www.
com consulted if further information is required.
The AGM will be held on 21 April 2011 when The Business Integrity Policy and shareholders will have the opportunity to put Dividends and distributions Performance Standards set out how Group questions to the Board, including the chairmen Subject to the provisions of the Companies employees, business partners and major of the various committees.
A separate booklet Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution suppliers must act to ensure that our zero enclosed with this report contains the notice from time to time declare dividends not tolerance of corruption is upheld.
During 2010, convening the meeting together with a exceeding the amount recommended by the training was held at all Business Units for description of the business to be conducted.
The Board may pay interim dividends employees to embed knowledge of the policy whenever the financial position of the as well as the recently enacted UK Bribery Act Facilities have been put in place to enable Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies and how to behave in corruption risk shareholders on the UK register to receive such payment.
This training will be ongoing and Company communications electronically mandatory for all senior levels and others rather than by mail and, for those unable to The Board may withhold payment of all or any where it is deemed appropriate.
attend the meeting, to cast their votes by part of any dividends or other monies payable electronic means, including those in respect of the Companys shares from a The Group has a well-used enterprise shareholders whose shares are held in the person with a 0.25% interest or more as information portal, theSource, which seeks to CREST system.
defined in the Articles if such a person has ensure that employees are regularly updated been served with a notice after failing to on developments within the Group, and In accordance with best practice, voting on provide the Company with information feedback is encouraged.
In addition, the each resolution to be proposed at the AGM concerning interests in those shares required Company regularly publishes Optima will be conducted on a poll rather than by to be provided under the Companies Act.
available on the Companys website and a show of hands.
The results of the poll will OurWorld, which contain items of news, be announced to the press and on the Rights and obligations attaching current affairs and information relevant to Companys website.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares are set out in eleCtroniC CommuniCations the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed CharitaBle donations by the shareholders by special resolution.
As a result of the implementation of the During the year, Anglo American, its electronic communications provisions in the Voting subsidiaries and the Anglo American Group Companies Act 2006, the Company has Subject to the Articles generally and to any Foundation made donations for charitable substantially reduced the cost of annual report special rights or restrictions as to voting purposes or wider social investments production and distribution.
Shareholders may attached by or in accordance with the Articles amounting to $111 million 1.31% of operating elect to receive notification by email of the to any class of shares, on a show of hands profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures.
availability of the annual report on the every member who is present in person at a Charitable donations of $0.8 million were Companys website instead of receiving general meeting shall have one vote and, on a made in the UK, of which the main categories paper copies.
poll, every member who is present in person were: education and training 43% and or by proxy shall have one vote for every share community development 39%.
These of which he she is the holder.
It is, and has figures were compiled with reference to the been for some years, the Companys practice London Benchmarking Group model for to hold a poll on every resolution at defining and measuring social investment shareholder meetings.
A fuller analysis of the Groups social investment activities can be found in the Sustainable Development Report 2010.
