24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Strategy in action continued Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly is embedded in everything we do.
STrATEGy iN AcTiON realising a step Change in oUr perForManCe operating saFely, sUstainaBly anD responsiBly Our Thermal Coal business is advocating the complete use of its solid by-product Gypsum has been used as a raw material a sustainable alternative to traditional around 200 tonnes of raw gypsum a day, for the production of bricks using a process building products by using the gypsum eliminating an environmental liability as well identical to the standard cement brickwaste produced by its Emalahleni Water as the costs associated with the storage and making method.
Fifty per cent of the sand Reclamation Plant.
In 2010, it completed removal of waste.
used for traditional bricks has been replaced a 66-unit employee housing project with raw gypsum and the same procedure making use of gypsum as the primary Two research and development projects was applied for the plastering of the units.
have investigated various uses for the Initial tests reveal that these bricks perform by-product, with one being its utilisation just as well as their cement counterparts and The plant was established to eliminate the in the building of affordable homes.
meet or exceed strength, shrinkage, water challenges posed by rising underground mine penetration and durability requirements.
water and desalinates 25 million litres of Thermal Coal tested the technology as polluted water from five mines every day.
part of a housing project involving the The project supports the South African This is turned into safe drinking water that is construction of 66 three-bedroom units in Mining Charters drive to promote home fed into the critically water-stressed areas the Kwa Mthunzi Vilakazi Village, west of ownership among employees, and the project municipal reservoirs, meeting 20% of the Emalahleni.
The houses were built by local may be expanded to 300 residential stands in local authoritys daily requirements.
contractors and create long term home the Kwa Mthunzi Village.
ownership opportunities for employees The unit operates at a 99.5% recovery rate moving away from mine villages into and the ultimate goal is for it to be a zero sustainable areas.
This will be achieved through For more information on water efficiency turn to page 27 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 25 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 We are not only providing badly needed 2 5 million housing, we are also delivering wider services to the community and creating litres oF pollUteD water DesalinateD local jobs.
every Day at eMalahleni water reClaMation plant John Quinn Project manager in charge of building houses from gypsum 66 sixty-six three BeDrooM hoUses ConstrUCteD Using gypsUM waste
