208 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Other infOrmAtiOn other anglo american Publications 2010 11 Fact Book Notice of 2011 AGM and Shareholder Information Booklet Sustainable Development Report 2010 Optima Anglo Americans current affairs journal Good Citizenship: Business Principles The Anglo American Environment Way The Anglo American Occupational Health Way The Anglo American Safety Way The Anglo American Social Way The Company implemented electronic communications in 2008 in order to reduce the financial and environmental costs of producing the annual report.
More information about this can be found in the attached Notice of AGM.
In this regard we would encourage downloading of reports from our website.
Financial reports may be found at: www.
com aal investors reports Sustainable development reports may be found at: www.
com aal development reports aareports However, the 2010 Annual Report and the booklet containing the Notice of AGM and other shareholder information are available free of charge from the Company, its UK Registrars and the South African Transfer Secretaries.
If you would like to receive paper copies of Anglo Americans publications, please write to: Investor Relations Anglo American plc 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN England Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: www.
com aal siteservices requestreport Charitable partners This is just a selection of the charities which Anglo American, The Chairmans Fund and the Anglo American Group Foundation have worked with in 2010: Introduction $4.13 u nDerlying earnings per share Aiming to be the leading global mining company the investment, the partner and the employer of choice.
5 lOs brOnces is On track tO be the wOrlDs number five cOpper prODucer I will always fight against any form of discrimination, stigmatisation or human rights violation.
Silvia Aparecida Domingues fide Almeida Social responsibility assistant leading Nickels HIV AIDS programme in Brazil Designed and produced by salterbaxter This document is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive Pure White Offset which has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Revive 50:50 Silk contains 50 per cent recycled fibre bleached in an Elementally Chlorine Free ECF process.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard.
This document has Throughout the year, I travelled extensively been printed using vegetable based inks and is recyclable.
around our Group and I continue to be impressed by the commitment of everyone Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001:2004, I have met in pursuing our ambition of FSC certified and CarbonNeutral.
becoming the leading global mining company.
Sir John Parker Chairman Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Anglo American plc intrODuctiOn 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN England Tel 44 0 20 7968 8888 Fax 44 0 20 7968 8500 Delivering real change Registered number 3564138 Our ambitiOn www.
com Our aim is to be the leading global mining company, by becoming the investment, the partner and the employer of choice.
We will achieve this by continuing to develop our portfolio of world class mining assets: operate an efficient, streamlined business model: embed sustainability and safety in everything we do: and attract and retain the best people.
This report provides an overview of how we have delivered against our strategy this year and made a real difference in our host communities.
Delivering real excellence Annual Report 2010 using this repOrt anD where tO finD Out mOre Within this report we have included references to find out more information on certain sections, either within the report itself or online.
For more information within this report For more in-depth information online visit www.
