180 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces Iron orE estimates as at 31 December 2010 kumba IrON OrE The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, The SAMREC Code, 2007.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
LOM 0.9 2.3 61.5 63.4 Total inferred 1.8 3.6 61.7 62.8 Vanderbijl Pit hematite Measured 8.1 62.8 Indicated 1.8 64.3 Measured and indicated 9.9 63.1 Inferred in LOM Inferred ex.
LOM 1.5 64.2 Total inferred 1.5 64.2 THE MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Mining method: OP Open Pit.
LOM Life of Mine is based on scheduled Reserves including some Inferred Resources considered for life of mine planning.
The tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes and abbreviated as Mt for million tonnes.
The Mineral Resources are constrained by a resource pit shell, which defines the spatial limits of eventual economic extraction.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
The Zandrivierspoort Project is not reported as Anglo Americans shareholding is below the internal threshold for reporting.
Details of this project are presented in the Kumba Iron Ore Annual Report.
1 Kolomela Mine Ore reserves: The mine plan has been updated to include revised scheduling and blending strategies.
2 sishen Mine Ore reserves: An expanded pit layout has been developed to incorporate the updated long-term price outlook for iron ore and is responsible for the largest proportion of the change 609Mt.
The gains are offset by a refinement in the resource model -238Mt and application of an improved LOM planning technique that includes a refinement in the treatment and estimation of modifying factors -152Mt.
3 Thabazimbi Mine Ore reserves: The reserve cut-off was increased resulting in the slight decrease in Ore Reserves.
4 Kolomela Mine Mineral resources: The reserve cut-off grade was lowered resulting in slightly more Mineral Resources being converted to Ore Reserves.
5 sishen Mine Mineral resources: The expanded pit layout has resulted in a significantly higher conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves -618Mt.
A further reduction is attributable to a refinement of the resource model, which focused particular attention on remodelling the lower-grade jig plant feed materials -120Mt.
6 Thabazimbi Mine: In 2010, the Mineral Resources have been split into two separate entities: the Vanderbijl Pit hematite Mineral Resource and the area outside the Vanderbijl Pit.
The hematite Mineral Resource in the Vanderbijl Pit, which has not changed since 2006, has been ring-fenced as part of an ongoing study to utilise this and other lower-grade material at this location.
7 Thabazimbi Mine Mineral resources: The reserve cut-off was increased resulting in a slight increase in Mineral Resources as less were converted to Ore Reserves.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statements were carried out by independent consultants during 2010 at the following operations: Sishen, Thabazimbi.
