Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 125 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 expected to be removed during the life of mine, per tonne of ore expected to be 1. accounting policies continued mined.
The cost of stripping in any period will therefore be reflective of the average Revenue recognition stripping ratio for the orebody as a whole applied to the actual stripping costs Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair incurred.
However, where the pit profile is such that the actual stripping ratio is value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume cumulatively below the average, no deferral takes place as this would result in rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Sales of concentrate are stated recognition of a liability for which there is no obligation.
Instead this position is at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and refining charges.
A sale monitored and when the cumulative calculation reflects a debit balance deferral is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
The average life of mine stripping ratio is recalculated annually in This is usually when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer and the light of additional knowledge and changes in estimates.
Changes in the life of goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
mine stripping ratio are accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate.
Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold.
Properties in the course of construction are measured at cost less any Sales of certain commodities are provisionally priced such that the price is not recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for settled until a predetermined future date based on the market price at that time.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated to their Revenue on these sales is initially recognised when the above criteria are met residual values at varying rates on a straight line basis over their estimated useful at the current market price.
Provisionally priced sales are marked to market at lives or the life of mine, whichever is shorter.
Estimated useful lives normally vary each reporting date using the forward price for the period equivalent to that from up to 20 years for items of plant and equipment to a maximum of 50 years outlined in the contract.
This mark to market adjustment is recognised in revenue.
Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue.
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be credited lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components.
against the cost of sales.
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal least annually.
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
to receive payment have been established.
Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount.
The gain or loss The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint is recognised in the income statement.
venture entity or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are recorded at Non-mining licences and other intangibles their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is the fair value of Non-mining licences and other intangibles are measured at cost less the consideration transferred including contingent consideration and previously accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Estimated useful held non-controlling interests less the fair value of the Groups share of lives are usually between three and five years.
Amortisation methods, residual identifiable net assets on acquisition.
Transaction costs incurred in connection values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
with the business combination are expensed.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12months of the acquisition date.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within intangible At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, assets.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any theassociate.
indication that those assets are impaired.
If such an indication exists, the Where the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the cost recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, of any impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are is recognised directly in the income statement in the period of acquisition.
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there recorded at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of net is an indication that the asset may beimpaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in Property, plant and equipment use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market properties and mineral rights.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Mining properties are depreciated to their residual values using the unit of production method based on proven and probable ore reserves and, in certain If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its limited circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources are included carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its in depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence that they recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement will be extracted in an economic manner.
Depreciation is charged on new mining as a special item.
ventures from the date that the mining property is capable of commercial production.
When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being exploited, or the Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below cost, an impairment asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but loss is recognised in the income statement.
so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment been recognised for the asset or For open pit operations the removal of overburden or waste ore is required to CGU.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as a obtain access to the orebody.
To the extent that the actual waste material special item.
removed per tonne of ore mined known as the stripping ratio is higher than the average stripping ratio, costs associated with this process are deferred and Impairment of goodwill charged to operating costs using the expected average stripping ratio over the Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of CGUs that life of the area being mined.
This reflects the fact that waste removal is necessary is expected to benefit from synergies of the combination and represents the to gain access to the orebody and therefore realise future economic benefit.
The lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Groups board of directors for average stripping ratio is calculated as the number of tonnes of waste material internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of the CGU or group of
