Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 99 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 2.
RemuneRation policy 3. elements of executive half of 2010 that this was a sensible point at on executive DiRectoR DiRectoR RemuneRation which to review the current shortand longRemuneRation term incentive levels of executives to ensure 3.1 Remuneration mix that they remain market competitive.
PwC The Companys remuneration policy is Each executive directors total remuneration were retained to provide external advice in formulated to attract and retain high-calibre consists of salary, annual bonus, long-term this respect.
executives and to motivate them to develop incentives and benefits.
An appropriate and implement the Companys business balance is maintained between fixed and The review found that the incentive strategy in order to optimise long-term performance-related remuneration and opportunity for executives had fallen to levels shareholder value creation.
The Committee between elements linked to short-term that were uncompetitive when measured intends that this policy will continue to apply financial performance and those linked to against FTSE 30 market practice.
Whilst for 2011 and subsequent years, subject to longer-term shareholder value creation.
sensitive to shareholder concerns about ongoing review as appropriate.
The policy is the use of benchmarking in setting framed around the following key principles: Assuming on-target performance, the remuneration levels, the Committee feel it Committees policy is that at least 50% necessary to ensure that incentive levels Total rewards will be set at levels that are 60% for Cynthia Carroll of each executive remain appropriate to attract, retain and sufficiently competitive to enable the directors remuneration is  the senior management of a recruitment and retention of high-calibre related.
In 2010, 72% of the chief executives geographically diverse and operationally executives and 71% of the finance directors complex group.
The recommendations Incentive-based rewards will be earned remuneration on an expected-value basis from this review the Review are set out in through the achievement of demanding was performance-related as shown in more detail under the relevant remuneration performance conditions consistent with Figure 2 on page 100. headings below.
It is expected that the shareholder interests incentive opportunities proposed will The Bonus Share Plan BSP and the Long remainin effect for the foreseeable future.
Incentive plans, performance measures and Term Incentive Plan LTIP are designed to targets will be structured to operate soundly align the longer-term interests of shareholders 3.2 Basic salary throughout the business cycle and executives and to underpin the Companys The basic salary of the executive directors The design of long-term incentives will be performance culture.
The Committee isreviewed annually and is targeted at the prudent and will not expose shareholders to monitors the relevance and appropriateness market median of companies of comparable unreasonable financial risk of the performance measures and targets size, market sector, business complexity applicable to both plans.
Further details of and international scope.
This is adjusted In considering the market positioning of the BSP and the LTIP are set out on pages either way based on experience and other reward elements, account will be taken of 100 to 103. relevant factors.
The market for executives the performance of the Company and of the of main-board calibre, in large international individual executive director Incentive levels are set taking account of mining companies in particular, has continued Reward practice will conform to best the median expected value of long-term to be very competitive in recent years and it practice standards as far as reasonably incentives relative to other companies of is therefore deemed sensible to position practicable a similar size.
basic salary for executive directors at no lower than the median point.
Company Representatives of the Companys principal Shareholder approval for the current LTIP performance, individual performance and investors are consulted on material changes to expires in May 2011 and a new LTIP will be put changes in responsibilities are also taken remuneration policy.
to shareholders at the AGM in April 2011.
The into consideration in setting salary levels Committee therefore decided in the second each year.
Figure 1: External advice provided to the Committee Advisers Other services provided to the Company  LLP Appointed by the Company, with the Investment advisers, actuaries and auditors PwC agreement of the Committee, to provide for various pension schemes: advisers on specialist valuation services and market internal audit projects: taxation, payroll and remuneration data executive compensation advice Linklaters LLP Appointed by the Company, with the Legal advice on certain corporate matters Linklaters agreement of the Committee, to provide legal advice on long-term incentives and directors service contracts Mercer Limited Engaged by the Committee to review the Investment advisers and actuaries for various Mercer Committees processes on an annual basis, pension schemes in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration processes the Committee has followed are in line with stated policy and that the Committee has operated within its Terms of Reference Deloitte LLP In their capacity as Group auditors, Deloitte Deloitte undertake an audit of sections 10 and 11 of the remuneration report annually.
However, they provide no advice to the Committee 100 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE: Directors remuneration report continued The Review found that basic salaries were Figure 2: fairly positioned against the FTSE 30 and CEO Expected values FD Expected values that there was no need for any fundamental CEO EXPECTED VALUES FD EXPECTED VALUES realignment of executive director salaries.
Accordingly, basic salary increases for executive directors with effect from January 2011 were limited to an inflation adjustment 1 1 in line with the general salary review for the 3 3 broader employee population.
3.3 Bonus Share Plan BSP The BSP was first operated in 2004 and all executive directors are normally eligible to participate in it.
2 2 The BSP requires executive directors to invest a significant proportion of their remuneration 1 Fixed 28% 1 Fixed 29% in shares, thereby more closely aligning their 2 Performance-related annual bonus 36% 2 Performance-related annual bonus 36% 3 Performance-related long-term incentive 36% 3 Performance-related long-term incentive 35% interests with those of shareholders, and encourages management at all levels to build up a meaningful personal stake in the Company.
Awards under the BSP are not parameters are set on an individual basis Shares.
The maximum potential, at face pensionable, are made annually and consist and the level of bonus payable is reduced if value, of the Enhancement Shares is 75% of of three elements: certain overall safety improvement targets the face value of the Bonus Shares.
Awards are not met of Enhancement Shares made in 2010 will A performance-related cash element vest after three years only to the extent In 2010 the maximum cash element was Bonus Shares as a conditional award, that a challenging performance condition 75% of basic salary in the case of both normally to a value equal to the cash based on earnings per share growth Cynthia Carroll and Ren Mdori.
The Review element against growth in the UK Retail Price Index found that the total incentive opportunity for RPI Real EPS growth is met as shown in An additional performance-related element executive directors had fallen below the Figure 4.
Real EPS growth is viewed as the in the form of Enhancement Shares median opportunity offered within FTSE 30 most appropriate performance measure companies.
Consequently, for 2011 the for this element of the BSP because it is The award and matching levels are Committee is proposing to increase the a fundamental financial performance summarised in Figure 3.
The BSP operates maximum cash element from 75% to 87.5% indicator, both internally and externally, and as follows: of basic salary for executive directors links directly to the Companys long-term The value of the bonus is calculated by Normally, half of any bonus earned is objective of improving earnings.
There is reference to achievement against annual payable in cash and the other half is no retesting of this performance condition.
performance targets which include deferred into shares.
The maximum bonus Enhancement Shares will be subject to measures of corporate and, where is payable only for meeting targets which, the same clawback provisions mentioned applicable, business unit performance as in the opinion of the Committee, represent previously well as the achievement of specific individual an exceptional performance for the Group objectives.
For executive directors, the in the light of prevailing market conditions.
The BSP targets have been approved by the corporate element is based on stretching The part of the bonus that is deferred is Committee after reviewing performance over earnings per share EPS targets which are delivered in the form of a conditional award a number of years and have been set at a level calculated using underlying earnings of Bonus Shares.
These Bonus Shares which provides stretching performance levels reconciled in note 13 of the financial vest only if the participant remains in for management.
The key individual objectives employment with the Group until the end of are designed to support the Companys a three-year holding period or is regarded The level of performance achieved and the strategic priorities and in 2010 included cost by the Committee as a good leaver.
As proportion of awards vesting in respect of and asset optimisation, project execution, reported in 2009, the Committee concluded each performance period will be published portfolio restructuring, strategic initiatives, that the proportion of the bonus deferred in the subsequent remuneration report.
organisational structure and capabilities, into shares should be increased from 50% CSR initiatives and safety improvements to 75% for a second year running to 3.4 Share options and all-employee increase the alignment with shareholders share schemes The Committee reviews these measures interests: the Committee will allow No share options were granted in 2010 to annually to ensure they remain appropriate executive directors to elect to continue executive directors under the Companys and sufficiently stretching in the context of deferral of bonus up to these percentages Discretionary Option Plan DOP and there is the broader macro-economic outlook and from 2011 onwards no intention to make future grants under the more specific performance expectations for unapproved part of the DOP to executive the Company and its operating businesses From 2011 onwards, the Committee directors.
However, the DOP is retained for intends to apply a clawback of deferred In 2010, 50% of each annual bonus was use in special circumstances relating to the Bonus Shares in the event that, during the based on the corporate financial measure recruitment or retention of key executives.
relevant deferral period, the Committee and the remaining 50% on key personal becomes aware of a material error in the performance measures.
This split is UK-based executive directors are eligible to Companys results for the relevant bonus designed to reflect the importance of the participate in the Companys Save As You performance period ongoing projects and strategic repositioning Earn scheme SAYE and Share Incentive of the Group as well as the volatile nature of Executive directors also receive a Plan SIP.
Performance conditions do not commodity prices with the implications of conditional award of Enhancement Shares apply to these schemes because they are this on setting earnings targets.
Bonus at the same time as the award of Bonus offered to all UK-based employees.
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 101 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Figure 3: Bonus Share Plan Summary Figure 4: Vesting of Enhancement Shares VESTING OF ENHANCEMENT SHARES Pre-2009 2009 and 2010 2011 proposed 75% Performance measures 50% corporate financial measure 50% key personal performance measure Maximum bonus 150% of 150 % of 175% of cash plus Bonus Shares basic salary basic salary basic salary 33% Delivery ratio 1 Cash 50% 25% 25% 50% 1 Bonus Shares 50% 75% 75% 50% 0% RPI RPI RPI RPI RPI RPI RPI Maximum Enhancement Share 75% of Bonus Shares, subject to a performance 0% 3% 6% 9% 12% 15% 18% potential condition EPS Real EPS growth over three years 1 Subject to executive director election.
Figure 5: Long Term Incentive Plan Summary 2010 2011 proposed 3.5 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Maximum award level % of basic salary 200% 350% At the AGM in April 2011, shareholders will be asked to approve a new LTIP to replace the Actual award level % of basic salary 200% 350% CEO existing LTIP, which will expire in mid-2011.
The 200% 300% FD new LTIP will be broadly similar to the existing LTIP, except as described in the summary table, Performance measures Figure 5, and the sections below.
TSR Sector Index 25% of award 25% of award Award levels TSR FTSE 100 25% of award 25% of award Conditional LTIP awards are granted annually AOSC 50% of award 50% of award to executive directors.
The maximum award level under the current LTIP is 200% of basic Maximum vesting of each element salary.
The Reviews findings showed that this award level is well behind market practice for TSR Sector Index 150% 100% the FTSE 30 and, for the new LTIP, the TSR FTSE 100 150% 100% Committee is proposing that the normal AOSC 100% 100% maximum award level be increased for 2011 to 350% and 300% of basic salary respectively for the chief executive and finance director, with an overall scheme maximum of 350% of Figure 6: LTIP Sector Index basic salary.
The Committee is satisfied that the performance conditions that need to be Mining Industrial Minerals met for these awards to vest in full are Category weighting 94% 6% sufficiently stretching in the context of the award levels.
These awards are discretionary Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc CRH plc and are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Rio Tinto plc Holcim Limited Performance measures Teck Cominco Limited Lafarge As in previous years, vesting of the LTIP awards made during 2010 is subject to the Vale Heidelberg Cement achievement, over a fixed three-year period, Vedanta Resources plc of stretching Group performance targets.
Xstrata plc Half of each award is subject to a Group Total Shareholder Return TSR measure, while the other half is subject to a Group operational Figure 7: LTIP Sector Index comparison 2010 awards and 2011 proposed awards measure.
As set out in last years report, the 2010 awards 2011 proposed awards Committee examined the possible use of an The Companys relative TSR % proportion of total % proportion of total Asset Optimisation Supply Chain AOSC compared with the Sector Index TSR element vesting TSR element vesting efficiency measure in place of the return on Below Target 0 0 capital employed metric.
Following this review and dialogue with the Companys major Target matching the weighted 20 15 investors, an AOSC measure was put in place median of the Sector Index in respect of the 2010 LTIP award for the first time.
The performance measures for the 2011 Target plus 5% per annum 50 50 LTIP award will be the same as those used in Target plus 7.5% per annum 75 50 2010.
These measures are described in or above greater detail on the following page.
Additional percentage of Bonus Shares acquired 102 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE: Directors remuneration report continued Figure 8: LTIP FTSE 100 comparison 2010 awards capped at 50% previously 75%.
Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the levels shown in Figure 7 on 2010 awards % proportion of The Companys relative TSR compared with the FTSE 100 total TSR element vesting page 101.
Below the median TSR of the FTSE 100 0 FTSE 100 comparison Equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100 20 The vesting of the other half of the TSR element of an LTIP award will depend on Equal to the 90th percentile TSR of the FTSE 100 50 the Companys TSR performance over the performance period compared with the Above the 90th percentile TSR of the FTSE 100 75 constituents of the FTSE 100 Index, as outlined in Figure 8 for awards in 2010 and Figure 9: LTIP FTSE 100 comparison 2011 proposed awards Figure 9 for proposed awards for 2011 onwards.
Again, threshold vesting would be 2011 proposed awards % proportion of reduced and maximum vesting would be The Companys relative TSR compared with the FTSE 100 total TSR element vesting capped at 50% previously 75% which would now occur at the 80th percentile previously Below the median TSR of the FTSE 100 0 90th.
Shares will vest on a straight-line basis Equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100 15 for performance between the levels shown in Figures 8 and9.
Equal to or above the 80th percentile TSR of the FTSE 100 50 The targets were calibrated such that for These performance measures were selected Sector Index comparison the TSR elements of the award there is on the basis that they foster the creation of One half of the TSR element of an LTIP award approximately a 15% chance of achieving full shareholder value and their appropriateness is vests according to the Companys TSR over vesting and a 25% chance of three-quarters kept under review by the Committee.
Taken as the performance period, relative to a weighted vesting.
These probabilities were assessed by a whole, vesting depends on meeting a very basket of international mining companies PwC using the same Monte Carlo model used challenging set of performance hurdles.
The Committee may amend for calculating fair values of the LTIP under the list of comparator companies in the Sector IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The At the end of each performance period, the Index, and relative weightings, if circumstances estimated average fair value of an award under levels of TSR and AOSC performance make this necessary for example, as a result the TSR element using these proposed achieved and the level of award earned will be of takeovers or mergers of comparator targets is 60% of the face value this is lower published in the subsequent remuneration companies or significant changes in the than for the 2010 LTIP targets which had a report.
There is no retesting of the composition of the Group.
In calculating TSR maximum vesting percentage of 150% and performance conditions.
it is assumed that all dividends are reinvested.
a fair value of 50% of the maximum number of shares that could vest.
The LTIP is intended closely to align the For awards made in 2010, the companies interests of shareholders and executive constituting the Sector Index were as shown in Graphs showing the Companys TSR directors by rewarding superior shareholder Figure 6 on page 101.
Should the Tarmac Group performance against the weighted average returns and financial performance and by be sold or demerged during the performance of the Sector Index and against the FTSE 100 encouraging executives to build up a period relating to this award, the percentage for the five years from 1 January 2006 to shareholding in the Company.
attributable to Industrial Minerals will fall to zero.
31December 2010 can be found in Figure 14 on page 104.
From 2011 onwards, the Committee intends Target performance for the Sector Index is to apply a clawback of conditional LTIP assessed by calculating the median TSR Asset Optimisation and Supply Chain awards in the event that, during the relevant performance within each sub-sector category, AOSC is the second performance measure performance period, the Committee becomes and then weighting these medians by the for LTIP awards.
The Companys AOSC aware of a material error in the Companys category weightings shown in Figure6 on programmes strive to unlock value from the results for the relevant performance period.
For 2010 and 2011 that part of any Companys assets in a sustainable way through award that is contingent upon the Sector Index structured Group-wide programmes aimed Total shareholder return TSR element of the TSR performance will vest as at reducing costs, increasing volumes and The Committee considers comparative shown in Figure 7 on page 101.
The outcome improving overall operational efficiencies.
TSR to be a suitable long-term performance of the Review is that, for proposed awards in In 2010, the Groups AOSC programmes measure for the Companys LTIP awards.
2011 and onwards, threshold vesting would delivered $2.5 billion of benefits from the core Executives would benefit under this measure be reduced and maximum vesting would be businesses $3.0 billion from the total Group, only if shareholders have enjoyed returns on their investment which are superior to those Figure 10: LTIP AOSC targets that could have been obtained in other comparable companies.
Value delivered $ bn 50% of the proportion of each award that is Minimum AOSC Target 5.13 based on TSR is measured against the Sector Maximum AOSC Target 6.27 Index and 50% is measured against the constituents of the FTSE 100.
Maximum vesting of the TSR element of an award will be Figure 11: LTIP AOSC vesting possible only if Anglo American outperforms by a substantial margin both the sector % proportion of AOSC element vesting benchmark as described in the following Below or equal to the Minimum AOSC Target 0 section and the largest UK companies across all sectors.
Equal to or greater than the Maximum AOSC Target 100
