Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 103 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 representing the additional operating profit conditions fall away in the event of pension contributions being paid as an and capital expenditure savings realised in redundancy.
However, if the director resigns alternative to an unregistered retirement the year, over and above the performance voluntarily, then all such options lapse unless benefits scheme an EFRBS.
expected had the programmes not been the Committee determines otherwise.
These benefits are valued employing Since the inception of the new UK pensions 2010 commodity prices and exchange rates.
In the case of LTIP awards, the Committee regime applicable from 6 April 2006, the would normally exercise its discretion when Committee has been prepared to consider Tying the AOSC measure directly to a an executive directors employment ceases as requests from executive directors as is the case meaningful portion of executives incentive pay follows: if the director resigns voluntarily, then for London-based employees more generally reflects the importance of the AOSC initiative in his her interests lapse.
If he she retires with that their contracts be altered for future service, delivering increased value to shareholders, as the consent of the Committee, is made so that future pension benefits are reduced or evidenced by the very significant and stretching redundant or is considered by the Committee cease to accrue and that a pension allowance be level of the targets.
The adjudication of targets to be a good leaver, vesting on leaving is paid having the same value as the definedwill be reviewed by internal audit and reported based on the normal performance criteria at contribution benefits forgone.
at the end of each performance period.
the time of leaving and then pro rated for the proportion of the performance period for Similarly, the Committee is prepared to The proportion of shares vesting based on which the director served.
consider requests from executive directors AOSC will vary according to the aggregate as is the case for London-based employees AOSC value delivered over the performance In the case of the BSP, if an executive director more generally that their contracts be altered period.
Unless a certain minimum value ceases to be employed before the end of for future service, so that supplementary target is met, no shares will vest under this the year in respect of which the annual pension contributions are made into their performance measure.
The maximum performance targets apply, then no award will defined-contribution pension arrangements, AOSC target is based on a stretching level be made unless the Committee determines in return for equivalent reductions in their of value delivered.
otherwise taking into account the proportion future basic salaries and or other elements of of the year for which the director was an their remuneration.
The targets for the AOSC element of the 2010 employee of the Group and of performance to conditional award are shown in Figure10.
date against the annual performance targets 3.9 Other benefits at the date of cessation.
If a director resigns Executive directors are entitled to the The AOSC element of the award vests as voluntarily before the end of the three-year provision of a car allowance, medical shown in Figure 11. vesting period, the Bonus Shares lapse and insurance, death and disability insurance, awards of Enhancement Shares are forgone.
social club membership and limited personal Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for Ifa director retires with the consent of the taxation financial advice, in addition to performance between the Minimum AOSC Committee, is made redundant or is considered reimbursement of reasonable business Target and the Maximum AOSC Target.
by the Committee to be a good leaver, Bonus expenses.
The provision of these benefits is Shares already awarded will be transferred as considered to be market-competitive.
3.6 Vesting of share incentives in the soon as practicable after the date of leaving.
event of change of control or Enhancement Shares will vest only to the extent termination of employment that the performance condition has been met 4. executive shaReholDing In the event of a change of control of the and if vesting is accelerated to the time of leaving taRgets Company, the following provisions apply will be pro rated for the proportion of the under the Companys incentive plans: performance period for which the director served.
Within five years of their appointment, executive directors are expected to acquire The number of shares that vest under the 3.7 Employee Share Ownership Trust and maintain a holding of shares with a value LTIP will be calculated by reference to the and policy on provision of shares of two times basic salary in the case of the extent to which the applicable performance for incentive schemes chief executive and one and a half times conditions have been met at the time of the The Group has hitherto used an Employee previously one times basic salary in the case change of control Share Ownership Trust the Trust to acquire and of any other executive director.
The Bonus Shares awarded under the BSP hold shares for use in the operation of its share will be released and the Enhancement schemes.
As at 31 December 2010, the Trust The Committee takes into consideration Shares awarded under the BSP will only held 985 ordinary shares in the Company, achievement against these targets when vest to the extent that the performance registered in the name of Greenwood Nominees making grants under the Companys various condition has been met at the time of the Limited.
Shares held by the Trust are not voted long-term incentive plans.
change of control at the Companys general meetings.
It is the Companys current policy to meet the Share options granted under the DOP or requirements of share incentive schemes by 5. exteRnal appointments under the Companys legacy Executive using a mix of Treasury Shares, shares from the Share Option Scheme ESOS may be Trust or by market purchases, as appropriate.
Executive directors are not permitted to hold exercised irrespective of whether the The Company also has the necessary authorities external directorships or offices without the applicable performance conditions have to utilise newly issued shares if required.
prior approval of the Board: if approved, they been met may each retain the fees payable from one SAYE options may be exercised to the 3.8 Pensions such appointment.
During the year ended extent of savings at the date of exercise Details of individual pension arrangements 31December 2010, Cynthia Carroll and are set out on page 107.
The Review found RenMdori each retained fees amounting Participants in the SIP may direct the SIP that the current level of company pension to 90,000 and 66,000 respectively.
trustee as to how to deal with their shares contribution was in line with market practice and was not in need of change at present.
In the event that an executive directors employment is terminated, vesting of any Executive directors and UK employees outstanding share options under the DOP more generally have the option of all or part or under the ESOS is dependent upon the of their employer-funded defined-contribution reasons for termination.
