Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 55 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 BUsiness overview During 2010, the listing of Royal Bafokeng GROSS PLATINUM DEMAND Platinum RB Plat was completed % Our Platinum business, based in South Africa, successfully.
Platinum, through RPM, holds is the worlds leading primary producer of 12.6% of RB Plats issued share capital.
The platinum, accounting for around 40% of global listing was a landmark transaction marking the output.
Platinum mines, processes and refines fulfilment of Platinums commitment towards the entire range of platinum group metals facilitating the creation of an independently 2010 PGMs : platinum, palladium, rhodium, controlled and managed, black-empowered ruthenium, iridium and osmium.
such as nickel, copper and cobalt sulphate are important secondary products and are significant contributors to earnings.
inDUstry overview Platinums operations exploit the worlds PGMs have a wide range of industrial and high richest reserve of PGMs, known as the technology applications.
Demand for platinum Autocatalyst 39% Jewellery 32% Bushveld Complex, which contains PGMis driven primarily by its use in autocatalysts Investment 6% bearing Merensky, UG2 and Platreef ores.
to control emissions from both gasoline and Others 23% The companys access to an excellent diesel engine vehicles, and in jewellery.
These portfolio of ore reserves ensures it is well uses are responsible for 70% of total net placed to be the worlds major platinum platinum consumption.
Platinum, however, producer for many years to come.
also has a large range of other applications, predominantly in the chemical, electrical, Platinum wholly owns 10 mining operations medical, glass and petroleum industries.
currently in production, a tailings re-treatment 2009 facility, three smelters, a base metals refinery The platinum jewellery market requires and a precious metals refinery.
Each mine constant promotion and development.
operates its own concentrator facilities, with Platinum is the major funder and supporter of smelting and refining of the output being the Platinum Guild International PGI, which undertaken at Rustenburg Platinum Mines plays a key role in encouraging demand for RPM metallurgical facilities.
platinum and in establishing new platinum jewellery markets.
Since 2000, China has Autocatalyst 32% Platinums 100% owned mining operations been the leading platinum jewellery market, Jewellery 41% now consist of the five mines at Rustenburg followed by Europe, Japan and North America.
Investment 10% Others 17% Section Khomanani, Bathopele, Source: Johnson Matthey, Platinum 2010 Interim Review Siphumelele, Thembelani and Khuseleka: Industrial applications for platinum are driven Amandelbult Sections two mines, Tumela by technology and, especially in the case of and Dishaba: as well as Mogalakwena and autocatalysts, by legislation.
With the rapid Twickenham mines and the new Unki mine spread of exhaust emissions legislation, in Zimbabwe.
Union Mine is 85% held, with more than 94% of new vehicles now have operating proFit a black economic empowerment BEE autocatalysts fitted.
The intensifying 2009: $32 m partner, the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela traditional stringency of emissions legislation will drive community, holding the remainder.
Platinum also has 50:50 joint ventures with Palladiums principal application, accounting $ 837 m a BEE consortium, led by African Rainbow for about 45% of demand, is in autocatalysts.
Minerals, at Modikwa platinum mine: and with The metal is also used in electronic XK Platinum Partnership in respect of the components, dental alloys and, more recently, share oF groUp operating proFit Mototolo mine.
In addition, Platinum has 50:50 has become an emerging jewellery metal in 2009: 1% pooling and sharing agreements with Aquarius markets such as China.
Palladium demand Platinum covering the shallow reserves of the is expected to continue to increase in 2011, Kroondal and Marikana mines and portions of particularly given the volume of gasoline the reserves at Thembelani and Khuseleka.
vehicles produced by emerging market 9 % Platinum is in partnership with Royal Bafokeng countries such as China, India and Brazil.
Resources, and has a 33% shareholding in the combined Bafokeng-Rasimone platinum mine eBitDa BRPM and Styldrift properties.
