124 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 FinAnciAl stAtements notes to the financial statements The adoption of the revised standards has resulted in references to minority 1. accounting policies interests being amended to non-controlling interests.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International A number of other amendments to accounting standards and new interpretations Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB were applicable Interpretation Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted for use by the from 1 January 2010.
They have not had a material impact on the accounting European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to policies, methods of computation or presentation applied by the Group.
companies reporting under IFRS and with the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency rules of the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom as Basis of consolidation applicable to periodic financial reporting.
The financial statements have been The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control pension assets and liabilities and certain financial instruments.
A summary of the is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and principal Group accounting policies is set out below with an explanation of operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
changes to previous policies following adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted date of disposal, as appropriate.
accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the ventures and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best used by the Group.
Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ eliminated on consolidation, where appropriate.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit or loss for the financial Details of the Groups significant accounting policies and critical accounting year and net assets or liabilities is attributed to the non-controlling interests as estimates are set out in the Operating and financial review and form part of shown in the income statement and balance sheet.
these financial statements: these are set out on pages 52 and 53.
Associates Significant areas of estimation uncertainty include: Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise useful economic lives of assets and ore reserves estimates: significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the impairment of assets: financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically the Group owns restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs: and between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a The Groups share of associates net income is based on their most recent reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements continues to be adopted.
Further details are contained in the The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of Directors report on page 111. each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post acquisition retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long Changes in accounting policies and disclosures term debt interests which in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
The Group has adopted with effect from 1 January 2010, on a prospective The carrying values of associates are reviewed on a regular basis and if an basis, IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations, and consequential impairment in value has occurred, it is impaired in the period in which the relevant amendments to IAS27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial circumstances are identified.
The Groups share of an associates losses in excess Statements, IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Revised of its interest in that associate is not recognised unless the Group has an Interests in Joint Ventures.
obligation to fund such losses.
The adoption of the revised IFRS 3 continues to apply the acquisition method Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against to business combinations but with some significant amendments to the the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised measurement of goodwill and non-controlling interests and the treatment of losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the extent that there is no transaction costs.
The Groups revised accounting policies are set out within evidence of impairment.
Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon.
There have been no material acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 2010 or the year ended Jointly controlled entities 31December 2009.
A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and shares joint control over strategic, financial and operating decisions with one The revisions to IAS 27 consequent upon the issuance of IFRS 3 Revised or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
result in transactions with non-controlling interests now being accounted for as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from nonThe Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash flows controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the of such jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the is recorded in equity previously goodwill.
Gains or losses on disposals to results of the joint venture entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the non-controlling interests are now also recorded in equity previously recorded Groups financial statements.
Jointly controlled operations The revisions to IAS 27, IAS 28 and IAS 31 consequent upon the issuance of The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in IFRS3 Revised, require that when the Group ceases to have control or joint activities other than through a separate entity.
The Group includes its assets, significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair liabilities, expenditure and its share of revenue in such joint venture operations value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income statement.
with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
Previously, the carrying amount of our retained interest represented the attributable historic carrying value.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purpose of subsequent accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
