126 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 FinAnciAl stAtements: Notes to the financial statements continued Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs 1. accounting policies continued from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further on aconsistent date during each financial year, or when events or changes in excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and Exploration and evaluation expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally incurred.
When a decision is taken that a mining property is economically recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are feasible, all subsequent evaluation expenditure is capitalised within property, recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available plant and equipment including, where applicable, directly attributable against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and pre-production development expenditure.
Capitalisation of such expenditure liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction other than in a business combination that affects neither taxable profit nor accounting profit.
Exploration properties acquired are recognised in the balance sheet at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Such properties and capitalised evaluation Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising and pre-production development expenditure prior to commercial production on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates except where the are assessed for impairment in accordance with the Groups accounting policy Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable stated above.
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Inventory The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date Inventory and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and net and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable realisable value.
The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
proportion of depreciation and production overheads.
Cost is determined on the Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period following bases: when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the laws that have Raw materials and consumables are measured at cost on a first in, first out been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is FIFO basis.
charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items Finished products are measured at raw material cost, labour cost and a charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses.
Metal and coal stocks are included within finished products and are measured at average cost.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current At precious metals operations that produce joint products, cost is allocated tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
amongst products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to gross sales revenues.
Leases In addition to lease contracts, other significant contracts are assessed to Retirement benefits determine whether, in substance, they are or contain a lease.
This includes The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes assessment of whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a specific asset for its employees as well as post employment medical plans.
For defined and right to use that asset is conveyed through the contract.
contribution schemes the amount recognised in the income statement is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
Rental costs under operating leases are recognised in the income statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
For defined benefit pension and post employment medical plans, full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit Finance lease assets are recognised as assets of the Group on inception of the method and updates are performed for each financial year end.
The average lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA rated corporate bonds of a payments discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest suitable duration and currency or, where there is no deep market for such bonds, element of the rental is recognised in the income statement so as to produce a based on government bonds.
Pension plan assets are measured using year end constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability, unless market values.
it is directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case it is capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs set out below.
Actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Any increase in the Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through the year is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on plan assets and continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly the expected increase during the year in the present value of plan liabilities are probable within one year from the date of classification, management are included in investment income and interest expense respectively.
committed to the sale and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale from the average period until the benefits vest.
date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is recognised in The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the the income statement as a special item.
On classification as held for sale the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past assets are no longer depreciated.
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.
service costs and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that has been value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
sold or is classified as held for sale and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of either a separate major line of business or geographical area of Tax operation, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to sale.
Once an The tax expense includes the current tax and deferred tax charge recognised in operation has been identified as discontinued, its net profit and cash flows are the income statement.
