Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 127 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 during the construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially 1. accounting policies continued ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when separately presented from continuing operations.
Comparative information they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds have been borrowed is reclassified so that net profit and cash flows of prior periods are also specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual separately presented.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of Environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the development All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period or ongoing production of a mining property.
Such costs arising from the in which they are incurred.
decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, Share-based payments as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
in the income statement over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during 1January 2005. production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the income statement as extraction progresses.
The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated will eventually vest.
For those share schemes with market related vesting timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate, are added to conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method at the grant or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised has been calculated using the Black Scholes model.
For all other share awards, immediately in the income statement.
If the asset value is increased and there is the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the share at the an indication that the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment date of grant.
For all share schemes with non-market related vesting conditions, test is performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out above.
the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining the relevant charge.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period For some South African operations annual contributions are made to dedicated to ensure they reflect current expectations.
environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine.
The Group exercises full Black economic empowerment BEE transactions control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated.
The trusts Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary assets are disclosed separately on the balance sheet as non-current assets.
or operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is The trusts assets are measured based on the nature of the underlying assets considered to be a share-based payment in line with the principle contained in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets.
in South Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment BEE Transactions.
The discount provided or value given is Foreign currency transactions and translation calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 and included in the determination of the Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in the profit or loss on disposal.
functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Employee benefit trust denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on Shares held by the employee benefit trust are recorded as treasury shares, the reporting date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in and the carrying value is shown as a reduction in retained earnings within the income statement for the period and are classified as either operating or shareholders equity.
financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Financial instruments Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical Financial assets cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date Cash and cash equivalents of the transaction.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, together with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in current prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at liabilities on the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates statement are shown net of overdrafts.
Cash and cash equivalents are measured at the dates of transactions.
Any exchange differences arising are classified at amortised cost.
within the statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Exchange differences on foreign Trade receivables currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is neither Trade receivables do not incur any interest, are short term in nature and are planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and therefore form part measured at their nominal value with the exception of receivables relating to of the Groups net investment in these foreign operations are offset in the provisionally priced sales as set out in the revenue recognition accounting cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
policy net of appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such allowances are raised based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised or known customer circumstances.
as income or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate.
Investments Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
associates, are financial asset investments and are initially recognised at fair Presentation currency value.
At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the As permitted by UK company law, the Groups results are presented in US dollars, expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity held to maturity as well as the currency in which its business is primarily conducted.
loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any impairment losses.
The amortisation of any discount or premium on the acquisition of a held Borrowing costs to maturity investment is recognised in the income statement in each period Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying capital using the effective interest method.
projects under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects 128 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 FinAnciAl stAtements: Notes to the financial statements continued Bank borrowings 1. accounting policies continued Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value, Investments other than those classified as held to maturity or loans and plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Finance charges, including receivables are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss which premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are includes investments held for trading or available for sale financial assets.
Both recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
They categories are subsequently measured at fair value.
Where investments are held are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are for trading purposes, unrealised gains and losses for the period are included in not settled in the period in which they arise.
the income statement within other gains and losses.
For available for sale investments, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity until the Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting investment is disposed or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement.
price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Current financial asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and Commodity based normal purchase or normal sale contracts that meet the fixed and floating rate debt securities.
Debt securities that are intended to be held scope exemption in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to maturity are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
are recognised in earnings when they are settled by physical delivery.
Debt securities that are not intended to be held to maturity are recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within Other financial assets derivatives or Other financial liabilities derivatives.
Derivatives are Impairment of financial assets including receivables classified as current or non-current depending on the expected maturity of A financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at the derivative.
each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset.
and effective as hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial of the estimated cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the rate.
Losses are recognised in the income statement.
When a subsequent event associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For loss is reversed through the income statement.
hedges that do not result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, Impairment losses relating to available for sale investments are recognised when amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same the decline in fair value is considered significant or prolonged.
These impairment period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
losses are recognised by transferring the cumulative loss that has been For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item recognised in the statement of comprehensive income to the income statement.
is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the The loss recognised in the income statement is the difference between the corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring acquisition cost and the current fair value.
the associated derivative are recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of a net Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified and accounted for investment hedge is recognised in equity part of the cumulative translation as debt or equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements adjustment reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in the cumulative translation interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
adjustment reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the Equity instruments foreign operations to which they relate.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is received, net of direct issue costs.
sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Trade payables At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised Trade payables are not interest bearing and are measured at their nominal value in equity is retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedge transaction with the exception of amounts relating to purchases of provisionally priced is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss previously concentrate which are marked to market using the appropriate forward price recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated Convertible debt in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement and Convertible bonds are classified as compound instruments, consisting of a are classified within other gains and losses or net finance costs depending on the liability and an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability type of risk to which the derivative relates.
component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial host non-convertible debt and is recognised within borrowings and carried at amortised contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics cost.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bond and are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the host contracts the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying amounts at Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly the asset have expired, the right to receive cash flows has been retained but an against equity.
obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been assumed or the The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the right to receive cash flows has been transferred together with substantially all effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component the risks and rewards of ownership.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation has been added to the carrying amount of the liability.
discharged, cancelled or has expired.
