Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 183 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces coal estimates as at 31 December 2010 mETallurgICal COal The Coal Reserve and Coal Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Coal Reserves and Coal Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal comprises export metallurgical and thermal coal operations located in Australia.
LOM Life of Mine in years based on scheduled Coal Reserves.
For the multi-product operations, the ROM tonnage figures apply to each product.
The Saleable tonnage cannot be calculated directly from the ROM reserve tonnage using the air dried yields as presented since the difference in moisture content is not taken into account.
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Saleable tonnes and should not be directly applied to the ROM tonnage.
Additional footnotes appear at the end of the section.
export Thermal refers to lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation: quality measured by calorific value CV.
coking refers to a high-, mediumor low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in steel industry: quality measured as crucible swell number CSN.
Other Metallurgical refers to semi soft, soft, hard, semi-hard or anthracite coal, other than Coking Coal, such as pulverized coal injection PCI or other general metallurgical coal for the export or domestic market with a wider range of properties than Coking Coal.
domestic Power refers to lowto high-volatile thermal or semi-soft coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation: quality measured by calorific value CV.
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 185 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Ore reserves And MinerAl resOurces Metallurgical coal Australia Projects Tonnes Coal Quality 6 8 2 BrOWn cOAl resOurces Attributable % Classification 2010 2009 2010 2009 6 6 7 7 Monash energy 100 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured 5,095.0 5,095.0 1,820 1,820 Indicated 5,221.0 5,221.0 1,790 1,790 Measured and indicated 10,316.0 10,316.0 1,800 1,800 australia brown Coal resources 100 Measured 5,095.0 5,095.0 1,820 1,820 Indicated 5,221.0 5,221.0 1,790 1,790 Measured and indicated 10,316.0 10,316.0 1,800 1,800 1 Coal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine ROM reserve tonnage basis which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant.
Saleable reserve tonnage represents the product tonnes produced.
Coal Reserves ROM and Saleable are on the applicable moisture basis.
For the 2009 Reported and Attributable figures, please refer to the 2009 Annual Report.
3 The tonnage is quoted as metric tonnes.
ROM tonnages on an As Delivered moisture basis, and Saleable tonnages on a Product moisture basis.
4 Yield ROM % represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis whereas Plant % is based on the Feed to Plant tonnes.
The product yields ROM % for Proved, Probable and Total are calculated by dividing the individual Saleable reserves by the total ROM reserves per classification.
5 The coal quality for the Coal Reserves is quoted as either Calorific Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis or Crucible Swell Number CSN.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Coking, Other Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specifications for coking coal, PCI, metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specifications of the individual supply contracts.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg and CSN to the nearest 0.5 index.
6 Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnage In-Situ MTIS basis in million tonnes which are in addition to those resources which have been modified to produce the reported Coal Reserves.
Coal Resources are on an in-situ moisture basis.
7 The coal quality for the Coal Resources is quoted on an in-situ heat content as Calorific Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg.
8 Inferred in LOM refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine extraction schedule of the respective collieries and are not reported as Coal Reserves.
Inferred Coal Resources outside the LOM plan but within the mine lease area are not reported due to the uncertainty attached to such resources in that it cannot be assumed that all or part of the Inferred Resource will necessarily be upgraded to Indicated or Measured categories through continued exploration, such Inferred Resources do not necessarily meet the requirements of reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction, particularly in respect of future mining and processing economics.
summary of material changes 10% at reporting level callide: A full economic re-assessment of the Southern operations, was completed in 2010 which has resulted in a slight increase in reserves.
The resources and reserves for the Boundary Hill and Boundary Hill Extended deposit have been depleted for 2010 due to unavailability of an updated geological model.
capcoal: The increase in reserves at Capcoal is due to revision of the open cut economic pit limits derived from a revised margin ranking and a realignment of the underground mine layout.
dawson: All geological models for Dawson have been updated and a major revision of the mine plan has been undertaken during 2010.
Results from this work will only be finalised in Q1 2011 and Dawson resources and reserves have been depleted for 2010.
The Dawson North mining area was reopened at the end of 2010.
Foxleigh: Reserve areas have been extended as a result of a revised economic margin ranking.
Foxleigh Plains has been included in the resource and reserve estimates for the first time.
Grosvenor: Reserves are reported for the first time as the Grosvenor project has progressed to detailed feasibility study and a mining lease application has been lodged.
Moranbah south: Resources are reported for underground mining areas which have reasonable potential for eventual economic extraction based on conceptual mining studies.
drayton south: Reported resources are based on current open cut, highwall mining and underground mining layouts from pre-feasibility studies.
Previously reported as Saddlers Creek.
dartbrook: Resources are now reported for potential open cut mining areas based on the results from the latest conceptual mining study completed in 2010.
Jellinbah: Not reported in 2010 due to 25% attributable interest.
Taroom: Disposal of Taroom was completed in December 2010.
Theodore: The decrease is a result of a change in the stripping ratio used to define reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
Brown coal Monash energy: Resource estimates have not changed from 2009 because no additional data was added in 2010.
The brown coal is a substantial resource suitable as a feedstock to many chemical processes but requires technological breakthroughs to allow the economic development of clean coal plants.
coal Bed Methane dawson Harcourt: The Dawson and Harcourt CBM operations were disposed of in July 2010.
Assumption with respect to Mineral Tenure callide: An expectation that a Mining Lease Application which has been lodged will be granted for the northern part of the Kilburnie area.
A Mining Lease Application will be lodged and is expected to be granted for the Amys Find area as an extension to the existing mining area at The Hut.
Foxleigh: A Mining Lease Application has been submitted with Department of Employment, Economic Development and Innovation DEEDI for the Plains area.
Reviews by independent third parties were carried out in 2010 on the following Operations and Project areas: Callide, Foxleigh, Dawson, Dartbrook, Drayton South.
