goverNaNCe DIreCtors reMUNeratIoN rePort CoNtINUeD stateMeNt oF DIreCtors resPoNsIBILItIes The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with pages 26 and 27 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company financial the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Standards and applicable law.
of the Group: and Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the Business Review on pages 8 to 25 includes a fair review statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair of the development and performance of the business and view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the position of the Group, together with the Corporate the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Governance Report on pages 31 to 36, which sets out a financial statements, the Directors are required to: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Disclosures of information to auditors make judgements and accounting estimates that are The Directors who held office at the date of this statement reasonable and prudent: confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and audit information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to subject to any material departures disclosed and explained have taken to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit in the Group and parent Company financial statements information and to establish that the Groups Auditors are aware respectively: and of that information.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting ralph Findlay andrew andrea Chief Executive Finance Director records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups 2 December 2010 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 45 www.
