Notes to the Group financial statements 1. significant accounting policies The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical Basis of preparation experience and various other factors that are believed to be The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
for use in the European Union EU adopted IFRS in accordance Actual results may differ from these estimates.
with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an The Company has elected to prepare the parent companys financial ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are presented on the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only pages 110 to 113. that year: or in the year of the revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out Judgements made by management in the application of adopted in the Business Review on pages 16 to 47.
The financial position of the IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 43.
In addition note year are discussed on page 87.
21 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently management objectives: details of its financial instruments and to all periods presented in these financial statements with the hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risks.
following exceptions: The Group meets its funding requirements through strong cash IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been adopted.
Under IFRS 8, generation and bank facilities, most of which are committed until reportable segments are determined on the basis of those segments June 2015 as described in note 21 to the financial statements.
The whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably operating decision-maker.
These operating results are prepared possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will on a basis that excludes exceptional items considered to be be able to operate comfortably within its current bank facilities.
non-underlying in nature and amortisation of intangible assets.
Following preliminary discussions with the Groups bankers, the Note 2 to the Group financial statements sets out the Groups Directors are confident that the Group will be able to extend or reportable segments and sets out the reconciliation between these renance these facilities as and when required.
and the results reported in the income statement and balance sheet.
The Group has a robust business model and conservative balance IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements as revised has been sheet.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed adopted.
This has resulted in a revision to the Groups primary to manage its business risks successfully despite the current financial statements, but has not affected its results or its net assets.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and Revised IAS 27 have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements have been the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial adopted and resulted in acquisition costs being expensed.
statements are prepared on the going concern basis and on the historical cost basis except where adopted IFRSs require an Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, alternative treatment.
The principal variations to historical cost Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, Amendments to IAS 32 Financial relate to pensions IAS 19, certain financial instruments IAS 39 Instruments, Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments and and non-current assets held for sale IFRS 5.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation have been adopted but did not have a material effect on the amounts These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds recognised in the financial statements.
Sterling is the functional currency of the parent company, McBride plc.
All financial information presented has been rounded Basis of consolidation to the nearest 0.1 million.
The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of McBride plc the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings The preparation of financial statements in conformity with collectively referred to as the Group.
adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 82 Subsidiaries Revenue Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists Revenue in the income statement represents the amounts, net of when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the trade discounts and rebates and excluding value added tax, derived financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from the provision of goods to third-party customers during the from its activities.
In assessing control, contracts or agreements year.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards with non-controlling interests and potential voting rights that of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, the amount of presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
revenue can be measured reliably and receipt of payment is probable typically on delivery and acceptance of the goods by the customer.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date Exceptional items on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Accounting policies The Group presents certain items as exceptional.
These are items of subsidiaries acquired have been changed where necessary to which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains Income tax and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated Current income tax in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement Foreign currencies except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in In line with the exemption permitted under IFRS 1, the Group equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the elected to reset the foreign currency translation reserve to zero expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax at 1 July 2004, the date of transition.
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currency of Group entities at the rate ruling at the date Deferred income tax of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rate of on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used on translation are recognised in the income statement.
The income for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not and expenses of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not provided for: initial recognition of goodwill and the initial recognition sterling are translated at the average rates of exchange for the year.
of assets or liabilities not in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences relating to Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired the foreseeable future.
Hence, deferred tax in relation to investment company and recorded initially at the transaction date exchange in subsidiaries is only provided for known remittances at the balance rate and thereafter at the closing rate of exchange ruling at the sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Differences arising on retranslation are taken directly to a separate that future taxable profit will be available against which the component of equity.
Exchange differences arising from the temporary differences can be utilised.
retranslation of a net investment in a foreign operation less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings which The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed effectively hedge that operation are taken to equity.
On disposal at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no of a foreign operation, accumulated exchange differences are longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to recognised in the income statement as a component of the gain allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted in respect of the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Net nancing costs Net nancing costs comprise interest payable on bank loans, overdrafts and finance leases, fair value gains and interest on differentials on derivatives, interest receivable on funds invested, expected return on pension assets and the interest cost on pension scheme liabilities.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 83 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 1. significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Segments In line with the exemption permitted under IFRS 1 the Group elected In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the identication to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations prospectively from 1 July 2004 of the Groups operating segments is based on internal management the transition date rather than restate previous business reporting as reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker in order combinations.
As a result the carrying amount of goodwill in the to assess performance and allocate resources.
Group balance sheet at 1 July 2004 has been brought forward without adjustment.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 July 2004, The Group is managed on a geographical basis in the following goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Groups regions United Kingdom, Western Continental Europe and Eastern previous accounting framework.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms length basis.
Segment revenue and profit include transfers Goodwill represents the excess of cost of an acquisition over the between segments, which are eliminated on consolidation.
Groups interest in the net fair value of identiable net assets and contingent liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition.
Segment operating profit is determined on an underlying basis, Goodwill on acquisitions is included in intangible assets.
When the excluding amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and excess is negative negative goodwill, it is recognised immediately unallocated corporate expenses, as this is believed to be more in the income statement.
representative of the underlying performance of the Group.
The analyses for the prior year have been restated on a consistent basis.
The Group assesses the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances Dividend distribution indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised is allocated to cash-generating units, these being the Groups as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which operating divisions which represent the lowest level within the they are declared and approved.
Interim dividends are recognised Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management in the period in which they are paid.
purposes and for impairment testing.
Further details are given in note 11.
Intangible assets Trade marks and patents Property, plant and equipment Trade marks and patents obtained on acquisition of businesses are Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated shown at fair value.
They have a nite useful life and are carried at depreciation and any impairment in value.
fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis and charged to or any impairment loss.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line the income statement over the estimated useful life of the asset basis over a period of up to three years.
as follows: Brand names and customer relationships and lists Freehold buildings over 50 years Brand names and customer relationships and lists obtained on Leasehold buildings life of the lease acquisition of businesses are shown at fair value.
They have a nite Plant and machinery 8 to 10 years useful life and are carried at fair value at the date of acquisition less Computer equipment 3 to 5 years accumulated amortisation or any impairment loss.
Amortisation is Motor vehicles 4 years calculated on a straight-line basis over their economic life, typically Moulding equipment 3 to 5 years of up to five years.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are Computer software reassessed at each reporting date and revised if necessary.
Computer software is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation or any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the software and software licences are capitalised and amortised disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of three to the income statement.
Costs relating to development of computer software for internal use are capitalised once the recognition criteria are met.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed When the software is available for its intended use, these costs for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate are amortised over the estimated useful life of the software.
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 84 Assets that are being constructed for future use are classied as For non-financial assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made assets in the course of construction until they are completed.
Upon at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that completion they are transferred to the appropriate category within previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or property, plant and equipment.
No depreciation is charged on these may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group makes items until after they have been transferred.
an estimate of recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in Non-current assets held for sale the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case through sale rather than through continuing use are classied as the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable held for sale.
Immediately before classication as held for sale, the amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, policies.
Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on initial classication as held for sale and subsequent gains losses recognised in relation to goodwill are not reversed for or losses on remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss.
Gains subsequent increases in its recoverable amount.
are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
Financial assets Research and development For financial assets such as trade receivables, provisions for Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect impairment are made when there is evidence of a risk of nonof gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, payment, taking into account ageing, previous experience is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
When a trade receivable is Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings determined to be uncollectable it is written off, rstly against any are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or provision available and then to the income statement.
Subsequent substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if recoveries of amounts previously provided for are credited to the the product or process is technically and commercially feasible income statement.
and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct Leased assets labour and overhead costs that are directly attributable to Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the preparing the asset for its intended use.
risks and benets incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the Capitalised development expenditure is measured at cost less leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a Impairment constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Non-financial assets Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised For the purposes of assessing impairment, non-financial assets leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated e. g. goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately retains substantially all the risks and benets of ownership of the identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
At each balance assets are classied as operating leases.
sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its nonfinancial assets excluding goodwill, which is tested for impairment Inventories annually to determine whether there are any indications of Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary amount is estimated and if this is found to be less than the carrying course of business less estimated costs of completion and the amount, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income bringing each product to its present location and condition are statement in the year in which it occurs and is applied first against accounted for as follows: the goodwill attributable to the relevant cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs Raw materials purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using an Finished goods and work in progress cost of direct materials appropriate pre-tax discount rate reecting the risks inherent and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based in the asset.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 85 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 1. significant accounting policies continued Contingent liabilities and assets Cash and cash equivalents A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by the short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash events not wholly within the control of the Group.
If the possibility and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened of outow in settlement is remote, a contingent liability is not above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts, if these are repayable recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
on demand and part of the Groups cash management policy.
When an outow becomes probable, it is recognised as a provision.
Employee benets A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events In respect of dened benefit pension schemes, the pension surplus and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within between the fair value of plan assets and the present value of the the Groups control.
Contingent assets are not recognised but are dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The net dened disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when an inow benefit obligation is determined using assumptions determined by of economic benets is probable.
When an inow is virtually certain, the Group by qualied actuaries using the projected unit credit an asset is recognised.
The income statement charge is split between operating service cost and nancing income and charge.
Derivative financial instruments Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
When the The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency the present value of economic benets available in the form of any uctuations relating to certain rm commitments and highly future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions probable forecasted transactions.
Such derivative financial to the plan.
instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward Payments to dened contribution schemes are recognised as an exchange contracts with similar maturity proles.
The fair value of expense as they fall due.
Differences between contributions payable interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either values for similar instruments and is the amount that the Group accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value are immediately recognised in the Provisions income statement except where hedge accounting is applicable Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation see below.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be Hedge accounting required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made Cash ow hedge of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classied as money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the cash ow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the forecasted transaction.
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
In relation to cash ow hedges where forward foreign currency contracts are used to hedge rm commitments which meet the Interest-bearing loans and borrowings conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and recognised in the income statement.
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by When the hedged rm commitment results in the recognition of taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium a non-monetary asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or on settlement.
Costs capitalised on initial recognition are amortised liability is recognised, the associated gain or loss that had previously on the finance expense line in the income statement, and are been recognised in equity is included in the initial measurement of written off on derecognition of the liability.
the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 86 For all other cash ow hedges, the gains or losses that are Accounting judgements and estimates recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, the same period in which the hedged rm commitment affects selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies the income statement, for example when the future cash ow and judgements and the application of them.
Impairment of goodwill Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the qualies for hedge accounting.
At that point, any cumulative gain or cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity a value in use amount requires management to make an estimate until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no of the expected future cash ows from the cash-generating unit longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
present value of those cash ows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 30 June 2010 was 33.0 million 2009: 29.7m.
Further details Hedging of net investment including sensitivities are given in note 11.
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a Intangible assets foreign operation are recognised directly in equity to the extent that Intangible assets acquired in relation to business combinations the hedge is effective.
To the extent the hedge is ineffective, such are recognised at fair value.
Such intangible assets are valued using differences are recognised in the income statement.
On the disposal discounted cash ow models which use the weighted average cost of a foreign operation the cumulative amount in equity is transferred of capital adjusted to reect the risk that a particular acquisition to the income statement as an adjustment to the gain or loss would have for a market participant.
Typically, cash ows are on disposal.
prepared for at least five years using the after-tax cash ow.
These cash ows are then adjusted to reect a market participants Share capital judgement of risk.
Where a brand is identied as having future Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Where the Company value then the value is ascertained by use of a post-tax royalty purchases its own shares, the consideration paid including any cash ow over the five years.
directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from the equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are Impairment reviews in respect of intangible assets are performed cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
when an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary.
Examples of such triggering events include a significant planned Treasury shares restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, Own equity instruments which are reacquired Treasury shares expectations of future operating losses or a significant reduction are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the in cash ows.
income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Pension and other post-employment benets The Groups dened benefit pension schemes and similar Share-based payments arrangements are assessed at least annually in accordance with The Group has adopted the exemption permitted in IFRS 1 to apply IAS 19.
The accounting valuation, which is based on assumptions IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, only to share-based payment awards taking into account independent actuarial advice, resulted in a granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested at 1 January 2005. pre-tax deficit of 21.1 million 2009: 16.7m being recognised on the balance sheet at 30 June 2010.
The size of the deficit is sensitive The Group operates both equity-settled and cash-settled shareto the market value of the assets held by the schemes, the discount based compensation plans.
Equity-settled share-based payments rate used, actuarial liabilities, mortality and other demographic are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The amount assumptions and the level of contributions.
Further details recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the actual number including sensitivities are disclosed in note 19. of share options that vest unless the options do not vest as a result of a failure to satisfy market conditions.
Fair value is measured by Provisions use of a relevant pricing model by an external valuer.
Further As described in the policy above, the Group measures provisions details are given in note 23. at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Estimates are made taking Cancellations of equity instruments are treated as an acceleration account of information available and different possible outcomes.
of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is recognised Further details are disclosed in note 18. as an expense immediately.
For cash-settled share-based payments a liability is recognised based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 87 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 1. significant accounting policies continued The following standard and interpretation have been issued by Accounting judgements and estimates continued the IASB or IFRIC, but are yet to be endorsed by the EU and have not Deferred tax assets been early-adopted this year.
The effect of adoption is currently Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to being considered: the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised.
Management judgement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is the first step in the project to is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that replace IAS 39 and covers the classication and measurement can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future of financial assets.
The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 to add taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
new requirements for the classication and measurement Further details are disclosed in note 8. of financial liabilities, derecognition of financial instruments, impairment and hedge accounting to become a complete Accounting standards issued but not adopted replacement of IAS 39 by the end of 2010.
The standard will The Group does not currently believe the adoption of the following become mandatory for the Groups 2014 financial statements.
standards and interpretations which have been issued by the IASB Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments on a Minimum Funding and endorsed by the EU will have a material impact on the financial Requirement permits a voluntary prepayment of a minimum statements of the Group: funding requirement to be recognised as an asset.
This amendment will become mandatory for the Groups 2012 The IASBs annual improvements project was published in April financial statements.
The project makes minor amendments to a number of standards in areas including operating segments, share-based Exchange rates payments, leases, intangible assets and financial instruments.
The exchange rates against sterling used for the periods were These amendments become mandatory for the Groups 2011 as follows: financial statements.
Average rate Closing rate 2010 2009 2010 2009 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Group CashEuro 1.14 1.17 1.22 1.17 settled Share-based Payment Transactions claries the scope Polish Zloty 4.66 4.67 5.05 5.24 of IFRS 2 and the accounting for Group cash-settled shareCzech Koruna 29.3 30.4 31.4 30.5 based payment transactions in the financial statements of Hungarian Forint 308.9 315.1 348.2 319.9 individual Group entities.
This amendment becomes mandatory Malaysian Ringgit 4.81 4.84 for the Groups 2011 financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures claries the 2.
Segment information denition of a related party and provides some exemptions In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the identication for government-related entities.
This amendment becomes of the Groups operating segments is based on internal management mandatory for the Groups 2012 financial statements.
reporting as reviewed by the Group Management Team in order to Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation assess performance and allocate resources.
Classication of Rights Issues requires an issue to all existing shareholders of rights to acquire additional shares to be The Group is managed on a geographical basis in the following recognised in equity, regardless of the currency of the shares.
regions United Kingdom, Western Continental Europe and Eastern This amendment becomes mandatory for the Groups 2011 Continental Europe.
Transfer prices between segments are set on financial statements.
Segment revenue and profit include transfers IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners which between segments, which are eliminated on consolidation.
species how an entity should account for distributions of non-cash assets to its owners.
This interpretation will become Segment operating profit is determined on an underlying basis, mandatory for the Groups 2011 financial statements.
excluding amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity unallocated corporate expenses, as this is believed to be more Instruments addresses the accounting required by an entity representative of the underlying performance of the Group.
The that issues equity instruments in order to settle a financial analyses for the prior year have been restated on a consistent basis.
liability in part or in full.
This amendment becomes mandatory for the Groups 2011 financial statements.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 88 Geographic segments Western Eastern United Kingdom Continental Europe Continental Europe Elimination China Total Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m m m m m External revenue 316.9 308.4 461.6 452.4 33.7 31.6 812.2 792.4 3.4 22.8 1.6 27.8 Inter-segment revenue 3.0 17.4 1.6 22.0 Total segment revenue 320.3 311.4 484.4 469.8 35.3 33.2 27.8 22.0 812.2 792.4 22.1 34.6 2.5 0.4 Segment profit 17.5 23.3 1.8 0.4 58.8 42.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.0 1.7 Corporate costs 8.8 6.0 Exceptional items see note 3 12.8 7.1 Reported operating profit 35.2 27.4 Net nancing costs 5.6 5.2 Reported profit before tax 29.6 22.2 On adoption of IFRS 8, the prior year segment profit has been restated to remove management charges which are not included in segment profit reported to the Group Management Team.
Includes China 1.0 million Household sales 2009: 0.4m which are all intergroup, and China operating loss of 0.4 million 2009: 0.4m.
Capital expenditure includes property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and additionally for 2010 the amounts payable including contingent consideration in respect of the acquisitions of Homepride Limited and Fortlab Holdings Sdn Bhd, which are shown within United Kingdom and Corporate respectively.
Business segments Household Personal Care Total Restated Restated Restated 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Segment revenue 667.5 648.5 144.7 143.9 812.2 792.4 Segment profit 51.4 36.0 7.4 6.2 58.8 42.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.0 1.7 Corporate costs 8.8 6.0 Exceptional items see note 3 12.8 7.1 Reported operating profit 35.2 27.4 5.6 Net nancing costs 5.2 Reported profit before tax 29.6 22.2 On adoption of IFRS 8, the prior year segment profit has been restated to remove management charges which are not included in segment profit reported to the Group Management Team.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 89 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 2.
Acquisitions Geographical information Acquisitions in 2010 The Groups revenue from external customers by country of Homepride Limited destination and information about its non-current assets excluding On 4 December 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital deferred tax assets are presented below: of Homepride Limited, a UK supplier of specialist household cleaning products, including Oven Pride, to a number of leading retailers for Revenue from external customers by country of destination a gross consideration of 4.9 million.
2010 2009 m m The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Homepride is mainly United Kingdom 296.2 290.1 attributable to operating synergies obtained from the acquisition, Foreign countries including those related to purchasing, customer service and France 224.3 214.3 distribution channels.
Intangible assets acquired with Homepride Italy 77.8 76.4 relate to the fair value placed on the Oven Pride brand and Other Western Continental Europe 155.3 151.4 customer relationships.
Eastern Continental Europe and Rest of World 58.6 60.2 Total revenue 812.2 792.4 Fortlab Holdings Sdn Bhd On 9 June 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of 85% Non-current assets by geographical location of the share capital of Fortlab Holdings Sdn Bhd FHSB, 2010 2009 m m a Malaysian-based manufacturer of personal care products in United Kingdom 93.1 91.0 both Private Label and branded formats with operating facilities Foreign countries in Kuala Lumpur and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam for a consideration Belgium 47.9 50.1 of up to 4.2 million RM20.3 million, of which 4.0 million Italy 24.6 32.5 RM19.3 million was paid on completion and up to 0.2 million France 13.7 14.0 RM1.0 million is payable within one year.
The amount accrued Other Western Continental Europe 27.3 30.4 by the Group at 30 June 2010 is 0.2 million RM1.0 million.
Eastern Continental Europe and Rest of World 12.3 7.3 Total non-current assets 218.9 225.3 The Group has entered into a put call option to acquire the remaining shareholding in FHSB for up to 1.2 million 3.
The consideration payable is dependent on the The Group presents certain items as exceptional.
These are items financial performance of the Fortlab business for the year ended which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue 30 June 2012 or 30 June 2013 depending on the date on which the of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding option is exercised.
The amount payable under the terms of the put of the financial information.
call option will be at least 0.6 million RM2.7 million.
The amount accrued by the Group at 30 June 2010 is 0.6 million RM2.7 million.
There was a 12.8 million pre-tax operating exceptional charge to the income statement in the year relating to restructuring Under the terms of the put call option, the holders of the remaining programmes in the Western Continental Europe and UK divisions.
shares in FHSB will benefit from any appreciation in value of Included in this charge was 5.4 million for redundancy, 5.0 million the shares but the value of its investment cannot fall below the for asset write-offs and 2.4 million of other charges, mainly prescribed minimum amount, whereas the Group has the risks consultants, logistics and storage costs.
and rewards of ownership of the remaining shares in FHSB even though it does not legally own them.
Accordingly, the Directors The 7.1 million 2009 pre-tax operating exceptional charge related have determined that the non-controlling shareholder in FHSB does mainly to redundancy programmes in the UK and Western not have present access to the economic benets associated with Continental Europe divisions.
the underlying ownership interests of the remaining FHSB shares and have accounted for the non-controlling interests in FHSB In terms of segment analysis in note 2, the exceptional charge relates except as outlined in the footnote opposite under the anticipated to the UK 3.6 million 2009: 5.1m and Western Continental Europe acquisition method.
Under the anticipated acquisition method the 9.2 million 2009: 2.0m, on a geographic basis, and Household interests of the non-controlling shareholder holding the put option 12.6 million 2009: 6.0m and Personal Care 0.2 million are derecognised when the Groups liability relating to the put option 2009: 1.1m on a business basis.
The recognition of the financial liability implies that the interests subject to the put option are deemed to have been acquired already.
Therefore the corresponding interests are presented as already owned by the Group even though legally they are still non-controlling interests.
The 0.6 million financial liability recognised by the Group forms part of the contingent consideration for the acquisition.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 90 The goodwill arising on the acquisition of FHSB is mainly attributable to the workforce in place and operating synergies.
Intangible assets acquired with FHSB mainly relate to the fair value placed on the customer relationships.
The fair values of the FHSB identiable assets and liabilities have been prepared on a provisional basis as a result of the proximity of the acquisition date to the year end.
In aggregate, these acquired businesses contributed 3.0 million revenue and 1.0 million operating profit for the periods between their respective acquisition dates and 30 June 2010.
If these acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, they would have contributed approximately 10.9 million of revenue and 1.6 million of operating profit to the Group.
The acquisitions had the following effect on the Groups assets and liabilities on their respective acquisition dates: Homepride Limited Fortlab Holdings Sdn Bhd Total Fair value Fair value Fair value Book value adjustments Book value adjustments Book value adjustments Fair value m m m m m m m Net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 3.2 0.2 3.2 0.2 3.4 Intangible assets 1.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.5 1.6 Working capital 0.7 0.3 1.9 0.4 2.6 0.7 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.5 Net debt 0.1 0.1 0.1 Non-current liabilities 0.3 0.3 0.3 Non-controlling interests 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.9 1.1 4.6 0.2 5.5 0.9 6.4 Fair value of assets acquired 2.0 4.4 6.4 Goodwill on acquisition 2.9 0.4 3.3 Total 4.9 4.8 9.7 satisfied by: Cash paid 4.9 4.0 8.9 Contingent consideration 0.8 0.8 Cash consideration 4.9 4.8 9.7 Fortune Organics F. E. Sdn Bhd is a 55% owned subsidiary of Fortlab Holdings Sdn Bhd which had net assets at the acquisition date at a book value of 1.1 million and with a provisional fair value of 1.3 million.
The Group has not entered into any agreement to acquire the remaining shares in this subsidiary.
Acquisitions in 2009 On 5 June 2009, the Group purchased from the Administrators of 360 Brands Limited certain assets for a total consideration of 1.0 million.
These predominantly comprised brands, for which the fair values were assessed to be equal to the consideration paid see note 12.
The Group also recovered part of the consideration paid relating to a prior period acquisition amounting to 6.3 million, which has reduced the goodwill arising on this acquisition see note 11.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 91 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 5.
Related party transactions 7. profit before tax In the course of normal operations, related party transactions profit before tax is stated after charging crediting : entered into by the Group have been contracted on an arms 2010 2009 m m length basis.
Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit i Transactions with key management personnel: of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and network Key management personnel include individuals that are not rms for other services: executive directors of the Group but do have authority and The audit of accounts of the Companys subsidiaries responsibility for planning, directing and controlling activities pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.4 of the key operating divisions as disclosed in the segmental analysis.
Services relating to taxation 0.2 0.1 Other services 0.1 They are members of the Group Management Team as described Depreciation and other amounts written off owned on page 49. property, plant and equipment 25.8 23.0 Depreciation and other amounts written off leased Remuneration of key management personnel, excluding executive property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 Directors, which is disclosed on page 75, is as follows: Impairment of property, plant and equipment note 13 5.0 2010 2009 Hire of plant and machinery rentals payable under m m operating leases 3.3 3.5 Short-term employee benets 0.1 0.1 Hire of other assets rentals payable under Post-employment benets 0.2 0.2 operating leases 1.2 1.4 Other remuneration 1.7 1.3 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 Share-based payments 0.3 Research and development costs written off during Total 2.3 1.6 the year 6.9 6.6 Government grants towards training 0.1 0.1 During the year ended 30 June 2010, there were no other material Amortisation of intangible assets note 12 2.0 1.7 transactions or balances between the Group and its key Net foreign exchange gains on trading items 0.1 0.5 management personnel or members of their close families.
During the years ended 30 June 2009 and 2010, all research and development expenditure was expensed as incurred as the criteria for capitalising development expenditure were not met.
ii Transactions with pension and post-employment schemes: 8.
Taxation Transactions between the Group and its pension and postAnalysis of tax charge in income statement employment schemes are disclosed in note 19.
Net nancing costs m m m m 2010 2009 Current tax expense: m m Current period 1.1 9.0 10.1 5.6 Interest on deposits 0.1 0.3 Adjustment for prior periods 0.6 Expected return on pension scheme assets note 19 3.6 4.9 1.1 9.0 10.1 5.0 Other interest 0.1 1.0 Deferred tax: Financial income 3.8 6.2 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.8 3.4 2.6 0.6 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 3.0 4.5 Total tax charge Fair value losses and interest differentials in income statement 1.9 5.6 7.5 5.6 on derivatives 0.5 0.6 Finance charges payable under finance leases 0.1 0.1 UK corporation tax is calculated at the United Kingdom standard Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities note 19 4.6 4.6 rate of 28.0% 2009: 28.0% of the estimated assessable profit for 1.2 Other net finance costs 1.6 the year.
Financial expense 9.4 11.4 Net nancing cost 5.6 5.2 Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 92 Tax recognised in equity and statement of other comprehensive income 2010 2009 m m Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash ow hedges 0.6 1.0 Net changes in fair value of cash ow hedges transferred to profit or loss 0.3 0.2 Share-based payments and other movements 0.6 0.7 Actuarial losses related to the dened benefit pension scheme 1.2 2.8 0.9 4.3 Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax charge on the Groups profit before tax for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax for the following reasons: 2010 2010 2009 2009 % m % m profit after tax 22.1 16.6 Tax charge 7.5 5.6 profit before tax 29.6 22.2 Tax charge using the Companys domestic tax rate 28% 8.3 28% 6.2 Effect of tax in foreign jurisdictions 2% 0.8 3% 0.8 Non-deductible expenses 6% 1.7 7% 1.5 Tax incentives 6% 1.7 8% 1.8 Utilisation of tax losses 5% 1.5 3% 0.7 Other differences 0.1 1% 0.2 Over provision in prior years 3% 0.6 Total tax charge for the year 25% 7.5 25% 5.6 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements during the current and prior reporting period: Retirement Share Accelerated tax Intangible Tax benefit based Surplus depreciation assets losses obligations payments ACT Other Total Deferred tax asset liability m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2008 20.9 3.1 2.0 2.2 4.6 0.6 14.6 Charge credit to income statement 1.6 1.4 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.6 Charge credit to equity 2.8 0.7 0.8 4.3 Exchange movements 1.0 0.2 0.2 1.0 At 30 June 2009 20.3 3.3 0.6 4.7 1.0 4.1 1.3 11.9 Charge credit to income statement 1.9 1.1 1.3 0.5 2.6 Charge credit to equity 1.2 0.6 0.3 0.9 Acquisitions 0.4 0.4 Exchange movements 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.3 At 30 June 2010 18.3 4.4 1.8 5.9 0.9 4.1 1.5 8.5 Deferred tax asset at 30 June 2010 1.8 5.9 0.9 4.1 9.8 2.9 Deferred tax liability at 30 June 2010 18.3 4.4 11.3 11.4 18.3 4.4 1.8 5.9 0.9 4.1 1.5 8.5 Deferred tax asset at 30 June 2009 0.6 4.7 1.0 4.1 8.0 2.4 Deferred tax liability at 30 June 2009 20.3 3.3 9.3 14.3 20.3 3.3 0.6 4.7 1.0 4.1 1.3 11.9 Other includes 9.8 million 2009: 8.0m to reect offset of taxes levied by the same taxation authority where McBride has a legally enforceable right of offset.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 93 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 8.
Taxation continued No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of timing differences associated with the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and either it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or if a distribution of profits is foreseen, based on the current repatriation policy of the Group no incremental tax is expected to be paid.
Unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries at the balance sheet date totalled 100.1 million 2009: 102.8m.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of 14.0 million 2009: 15.0m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised of 1.8 million 2009: 0.6m of these losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
2.0 million 2009: 3.5m of unrecognised tax losses may be carried forward for offset against future profits.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had surplus ACT of 6.5 million 2009: 6.5m available to offset against future tax liabilities.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of surplus ACT of 4.1 million 2009: 4.1m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to the remaining surplus ACT of 2.4 million 2009: 2.4m due to uncertainty as to future ACT capacity.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated on profit after tax, attributable to equity holders of the parent, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year in accordance with IAS 33.
2010 2009 Total earnings m a 22.1 16.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares b 180,276,613 180,288,282 Basic earnings per share pence a b 12.3 9.2 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
During the year, the Company had three categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: share options issued whose exercise price is less than the average price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year, share awards with no option price and shares allocated to an approved Save As You Earn scheme.
2010 2009 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million b 180.3 180.3 Effect of dilutive share options million 0.2 Effect of dilutive share awards million 1.6 1.0 Effect of dilutive SAYE scheme shares million 1.3 c 183.2 181.5 Diluted earnings per share pence a c 12.1 9.1 Adjusted basic earnings per share applies to earnings excluding exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets since the Directors consider that this gives additional information as to the underlying performance of the Group.
2010 2009 m m Earnings used to calculate basic and diluted EPS a 22.1 16.6 Exceptional items after tax 9.6 5.3 Amortisation of intangible assets after tax 1.5 1.3 Earnings before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets d 33.2 23.2 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence d b 18.4 12.9 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence d c 18.1 12.8 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 94 10.
Dividends The net book value of goodwill by CGU was as follows: Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2010 2009 m m 2010 2009 m m Acquired with UK Household liquids businesses 14.7 11.8 Acquired with Dasty business 6.5 6.7 Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2009 Acquired with UK Aircare businesses 6.4 6.4 of 4.3p 2008: 3.9p 7.8 7.0 Acquired with WCE Household liquids business 2.2 2.2 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2010 Other CGUs without significant goodwill 3.2 2.6 of 2.0p 2009: 1.7p 3.6 3.1 30 June 33.0 29.7 11.4 10.1 Proposed final dividend for the year ended Impairment testing of goodwill 30 June 2010 of 4.8p 2009: 4.3p 8.7 7.7 Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders testing, or more frequent testing if there are indications of at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included in these impairment.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined financial statements.
from value-in-use calculations that are prepared based on the actual results for the current year, the budget for the year to June 2011, 11.
Goodwill estimates by management of the pre-tax cash ows for a further four years to June 2015 and a terminal value calculated by taking 2010 2009 m m the cash ows beyond June 2015 into perpetuity.
To arrive at Cost the value-in-use, the forecast cash ows for each CGU are then 1 July 29.7 36.0 discounted at a discount rate that reects the risks inherent in Acquisitions 3.3 each CGU.
Assumptions used to calculate future cash ows are Repayment of contingent consideration 6.3 based on historic trends adjusted for external market information 30 June 33.0 29.7 for specic product categories.
Revenue growth and input cost ination are, by their very nature in a consumer product industry, In the year ended 30 June 2010, the Group completed the difficult to forecast.
acquisitions of Homepride Limited and Fortlab Holdings Sdn Bhd see note 4.
Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculation The following describes each key assumption on which management In the year ended 30 June 2009, goodwill reduced following has based its cash ow projections to undertake impairment testing a return of consideration relating to a prior period acquisition.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at Discount rates these reect managements estimate of the acquisition, to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital WACC for each CGU, expected to benefit from that business combination.
which is based on the pre-tax Group WACC of 10.9% 2009: 10.0% which has been adjusted, where appropriate, for ination, expected Aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each CGU by growth and appropriate risk factors.
segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Raw material price, direct and indirect cost ination budgets m m UK 24.1 21.2 are prepared using the most up-to-date price and forecast price Western Continental Europe 6.9 7.0 data available.
Beyond the period for which forecasts are available Eastern Continental Europe 1.6 1.5 managements best estimate of changes to input costs are used.
Corporate 0.4 30 June 33.0 29.7 Growth rate estimates these reect management expectations of volume growth, which are in line with those indicated by Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Fortlab Holdings Sdn Bhd is shown within Corporate see note 4.
Euromonitor is an independent external source producing external market research data.
Euromonitor data indicates that Household products will, across the Groups principal markets, grow by an average of 0.5% per annum in the five years from 2010 to 2014.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 95 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 11.
Goodwill continued Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The current economic climate in the principal geographical markets in which the Group has operations has increased the discount rate adopted by the Group due to the higher level of return expected by equity holders due to the continued perceived risk and volatility in equity markets.
The Group has considered this impact on the assumptions used and has conducted sensitivity analysis and details in respect of the two CGUs where a reasonably possible change in key assumptions used in the impairment testing would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount provided below: The key assumptions for discount rate, ination rate and growth rate used in the most recent value-in-use calculation in the year ended 30 June 2010 are as follows: 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Pre-tax Cost Pre-tax Cost discount ination Growth discount ination Growth rate rate rate rate rate rate Acquired with Dasty business 10.9% 1.9% 0.0% 10.0% 2.0% 0.0% Acquired with WCE Household liquids business 10.9% 1.8% 0.0% 10.0% 0.7% 0.0% The table below shows the sensitivity of the goodwill to each of the key assumptions separately.
The values shown for each particular key assumption are those which when combined with all other key assumptions per the value-in-use calculations performed by management would result in a value in use equal to the carrying value of the relevant CGU: 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Pre-tax Cost Pre-tax Cost discount ination Growth discount ination Growth rate rate rate rate rate rate Acquired with Dasty business 19.3% 3.5% 1.5% 21.1% 2.6% 1.8% Acquired with WCE Household liquids business 20.9% 3.0% 1.1% 14.9% 1.7% 0.9% 12.
Other intangible assets Patents, brands and trade Computer Customer marks software relationships Total m m m m Cost At 1 July 2008 0.6 0.4 7.5 8.5 Acquisitions 1.0 1.0 Exchange movements 0.4 0.4 At 30 June 2009 1.6 0.4 7.9 9.9 Acquisitions note 4 0.8 0.8 1.6 0.2 Exchange movements 0.2 At 30 June 2010 2.4 0.5 8.5 11.4 Amortisation At 1 July 2008 0.4 0.1 1.9 2.4 Provided for in the year 0.1 0.1 1.5 1.7 Exchange movements 0.1 0.1 At 30 June 2009 0.5 0.2 3.5 4.2 Provided for in the year 0.3 0.1 1.6 2.0 Exchange movements 0.2 0.2 At 30 June 2010 0.8 0.3 4.9 6.0 Net book value At 30 June 2010 1.6 0.2 3.6 5.4 At 30 June 2009 1.1 0.2 4.4 5.7 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 96 13.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, machinery, Payments computer on account equipment and assets in Land and buildings and motor the course of Freehold Leasehold vehicles construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2008 92.3 8.4 346.1 7.8 454.6 Exchange movements 3.1 0.5 10.8 0.1 14.3 Additions 0.5 15.5 4.5 20.5 Disposals 1.2 4.1 5.3 Transfers 0.1 0.1 At 30 June 2009 94.7 8.9 368.4 12.1 484.1 Exchange movements 1.8 0.3 7.7 0.1 9.7 Additions 0.4 18.8 6.9 26.1 Acquisitions note 4 2.4 1.0 3.4 Disposals 5.0 5.0 Transfers 0.5 14.4 14.9 Reclassied as held for sale 6.6 6.6 At 30 June 2010 87.2 11.0 389.9 4.2 492.3 Depreciation At 1 July 2008 24.6 0.8 241.9 267.3 Exchange movements 0.8 6.8 7.6 Charge for the year 2.0 0.1 21.7 23.8 Disposals 0.4 3.4 3.8 At 30 June 2009 27.0 0.9 267.0 294.9 Exchange movements 0.3 0.1 5.3 5.7 Charge for the year 2.2 0.1 24.3 26.6 Impairment charge 1.7 3.3 5.0 Disposals 4.7 4.7 Reclassied as held for sale 3.7 3.7 At 30 June 2010 26.9 0.9 284.6 312.4 Net book value At 30 June 2010 60.3 10.1 105.3 4.2 179.9 At 30 June 2009 67.7 8.0 101.4 12.1 189.2 The net book value of finance leases included within land and buildings and plant, machinery, computer equipment and motor vehicles above was 5.8 million 2009: 6.9m and the depreciation charge for the year was 0.8 million 2009: 0.8m.
During the year ended 30 June 2010 the Group closed the site in Solaro, Italy as part of a restructuring of its Italian operations and also announced a restructuring programme in its UK division.
This resulted in an impairment charge of 5.0 million which is included within the exceptional charge for the year see note 3.
The Group expects to sell the freehold land and buildings relating to the former site at Solaro in the next year and in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations has reclassied the item to assets held for sale.
Other non-current assets Other non-current assets of 0.6 million 2009: 0.7m consist of prepayments on leases of land and interest-free loans to the local government, both in Western Continental Europe.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 97 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 15.
Inventories As at 30 June 2010, trade receivables of 3.5 million 2009: 8.1m 2010 2009 were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of external m m parties where there is no expectation of default.
The ageing analysis Raw materials, packaging and consumables 34.4 32.7 of these trade receivables is shown in the table below.
Based on Finished goods and goods for resale 35.5 35.3 past experience the Group believes no impairment allowance is Total inventories 69.9 68.0 necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due.
2010 2009 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included as m m cost of goods sold amounted to 449.4 million 2009: 459.8m.
Not overdue 124.8 116.1 Past due less than one month 3.6 7.8 The Group inventory provision recognised in cost of sales at Between one and three months 0.5 1.5 Between three and six months 0.6 0.4 30 June 2010 was 2.7 million 2009: 2.1m.
Over six months 0.6 1.0 130.1 126.8 During the year 0.3 million of provisions were utilised 2009: 0.9m.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for The Group does not have any inventories pledged as security trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to the shortfor liabilities.
term duration of the majority of trade and other receivables.
Trade and other receivables The maximum amount of credit risk with respect to customers 2010 2009 m is represented by the carrying amount on the balance sheet.
m Trade receivables 128.3 124.2 Credit terms for customers are determined in individual operating Other receivables 5.5 4.4 divisions, taking into account their financial positions, past Forward contract assets 3.4 0.2 experiences and other relevant factors.
Individual customer Prepayments and accrued income 3.6 4.0 credit limits are imposed based on these factors.
Total receivables 140.8 132.8 Trade receivables are predominantly denominated in the functional Trade receivables have been reported in the balance sheet net of currency of the relevant Group company.
Where significant balances provisions as follows: arise in other currencies, the Group uses forward contracts to 2010 2009 manage the exchange rate risk see note 21. m m Total trade receivables 130.1 126.8 17.
Trade and other payables Less: impairment provision for trade receivables 1.8 2.6 2010 2009 Net trade receivables per the balance sheet 128.3 124.2 m m Trade payables 141.4 133.3 The movements in the provision account are as follows: Other taxation and social security 17.1 16.9 2010 2009 Forward contract liabilities 2.3 m m Interest rate swaps 3.2 2.6 At 1 July 2.6 2.1 Other payables 18.8 15.6 Charged to current year income statement 4.5 5.7 Accruals and deferred income 22.4 21.9 Utilisation 5.3 5.2 0.8 Contingent consideration on acquisition note 4 At 30 June 1.8 2.6 Total payables 206.0 190.3 Impairment of trade receivables charged during the year is included Trade payables are predominantly denominated in the functional as part of other operating expenses.
currency of the relevant Group company.
Where significant balances arise in other currencies, the Group uses forward contracts to manage the exchange rate risk see note 21.
0.6 million of contingent consideration is payable after more than one year see note 4.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 98 18.
Provisions Onerous Leasehold Redundancy contracts dilapidations termination Other Total m m m m m At 1 July 2008 1.3 0.4 0.3 2.0 Provisions made during the year 1.0 0.2 4.5 0.4 6.1 Provisions utilised during the year 0.3 0.9 3.5 0.6 5.3 At 30 June 2009 0.7 0.6 1.4 0.1 2.8 Exchange movements 0.1 0.1 0.2 Provisions made during the year 5.4 2.7 8.1 4.5 Provisions utilised during the year 0.5 0.2 3.1 0.7 At 30 June 2010 0.2 0.4 3.6 2.0 6.2 Analysed as: Current 0.2 0.4 2.9 1.6 5.1 Non-current 0.7 0.4 1.1 Total 0.2 0.4 3.6 2.0 6.2 Onerous contracts As part of a programme to congure its manufacturing capabilities in the UK, the Group announced the downsizing of the site at Warrington.
0.2 million relates to the remaining property lease obligations in respect of the facility vacated and this amount will be incurred over the remainder of the lease term.
Leasehold dilapidations 0.1 million relates to dilapidation costs relating to the closed production facility at Coventry and 0.3 million relates to dilapidations and site clearance of a freehold and a leasehold taken on with the Darcy acquisition in 2007.
Redundancy termination The outstanding balance relates to the restructuring programmes in the Western Continental Europe and UK divisions made in the year to 30 June 2010 see note 3.
Other The other provisions relate to the consultants, logistics and storage costs in connection with the restructuring programmes in Western Continental Europe made in the year to 30 June 2010 see note 3 and to training cost obligations in France.
For those provisions that have been discounted, the effect of unwinding the provision is not material.
Pensions and other post-employment benets The Group operates a number of pension schemes.
Within the UK, it operates the Robert McBride Pension Fund the Scheme, which is a final salary pension scheme, and also dened contribution schemes.
Together these schemes cover most of the Groups UK employees.
In addition, the Group operates a number of smaller pension and other post-employment schemes in Western Continental Europe that are devised in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
The fair value of the Groups non-UK liabilities has been estimated to be 2.5 million 2009: 2.2m.
Financial summary 2010 2009 m m Balance sheet deficit on the Scheme see tables below 21.1 16.7 deficit provision on Western Continental Europe post-employment schemes 2.5 2.2 23.6 18.9 Related deferred tax asset on the Scheme 5.9 4.7 Income statement expense Dened contribution schemes 1.2 1.0 Dened benefit schemes and post-employment schemes 2.1 1.1 Total amount charged to the income statement 3.3 2.1 Statement of comprehensive income Amounts charged directly to equity 4.3 9.7 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 99 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 19.
Pensions and other post-employment benets continued UK dened benefit scheme In 2002 the Scheme was closed to new entrants and a new dened contribution scheme for UK employees was established.
The Schemes assets are held in external funds administered by trustees and managed professionally.
Regular assessments are carried out by independent actuaries and the long-term contribution rates decided on the basis of their recommendations.
The most recently completed triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme was performed by an independent actuary for the trustees of the Scheme and was carried out as at 31 March 2006.
A triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 31 March 2009 has been performed by an independent actuary for the trustees of the Scheme but is not yet nalised.
The results of that 2009 valuation have been projected to 30 June 2010 and then updated based on the assumptions disclosed below.
Following the 2006 valuation, the Groups rates of ordinary contributions increased with effect from the beginning of 2007 by between 0% and 10% of pensionable salaries across the various payrolls within the UK.
In addition, the Group is currently making additional monthly contributions over and above the ordinary contributions.
The Group agreed with the trustees that it will aim to eliminate the deficit by 2018 and that the Group will monitor funding levels on an annual basis.
Finalisation of the triennial valuation as at 31 March 2009 will incorporate any necessary changes to contribution rates.
Expected employer contributions for 2011 are currently estimated to be 3.3 million, but the funding levels for the forthcoming year are still to be determined.
The expected rate of return on assets is the weighted average of the expected returns on each major category of asset at the balance sheet date.
Bond returns are taken to be equal to the relevant gross redemption yields available.
For equities and property, more judgement is required and it has been assumed that those assets will achieve a returns of 3.5% and 3.0% respectively above the gross redemption yield on long-term xed interest government bonds.
Other plan assets consist of commodities, hedge funds, infrastructure and convertibles and the weighted average risk premium for these elements has been assumed at 2.7% above the gross redemption yield on long-term xed interest government bonds.
A deduction is made for the expected level of the Schemes expenses.
Weighted average assumptions at the end of the period 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.4% 6.5% Expected return on plan assets 6.1% 6.6% Future salary increases 2.8% 3.0% Ination rate 3.1% 3.3% Future pension increases 3.1% 3.3% Expected rate of return on plan assets Equities 7.5% 7.6% Bonds 5.3% 5.2% Property 7.0% 7.1% Cash 4.0% 4.1% Other 6.7% n a The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Mortality rates used are based upon: Life expectancy at age 65 years Mortality table Male Female Future pensioners 112% of PMA00 and 118% of PFA00 projected by birth year using medium cohort factors 22.0 23.8 Current pensioners 112% of PMA00 and 118% of PFA00 projected by birth year using medium cohort factors 20.8 22.8 Sensitivity analysis for the principal assumptions used to measure the Schemes liabilities shows how the measurement of the Schemes liabilities would have been affected by changes in the relevant assumption at the balance sheet date.
For the purposes of this disclosure all other assumptions are taken to be held constant.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Schemes liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on liabilities % Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Decrease 8.5 Rate of ination, salary growth and LPI limited price indexation Increase by 0.5% Increase 9.9 Rate of salary growth Increase by 0.3% Increase 1.3 Rate of mortality Change in mortality table Increase 5.6 If the death rates used are 112% for males and 118% for females of the 2000 series standard tables, projected by year of birth using long cohort factors with a 1% oor rather than medium cohort factors.
These alternative projections make a greater allowance for future improvements in life expectancy to improve over time due to improvements in medical treatments and other lifestyle factors such that younger members who have not yet reached pensionable age are expected to live longer than current pensioner members.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 100 Summary of plan assets at the end of the period 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m % % Equities 37.0 41.7 54 76 Bonds 20.1 10.1 30 18 Property 2.8 1.9 4 4 Cash 2.2 1.2 3 2 Other 6.2 9 Total 68.3 54.9 100 100 The Scheme has no investment in the Groups equity securities or in property used by the Group.
Charges on the basis of the assumptions above were: 2010 2009 m m Charge to the Group income statement Current service cost 1.1 1.4 Amount charged to operating profit 1.1 1.4 Interest on pension liabilities recognised in financial expense 4.6 4.6 Expected return on scheme assets recognised in financial income 3.6 4.9 Amount charged credited to net financial costs 1.0 0.3 Total included within staff finance costs 2.1 1.1 Credit charge to the consolidation statement of comprehensive income before taxation Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 9.8 13.8 Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 14.1 4.1 4.3 9.7 The cumulative recognised actuarial gains and losses for the Scheme are 13.9 million loss 2009: 9.6m loss.
Fair value of assets and liabilities of the Scheme The fair value of the Schemes assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised, and the present value of the Schemes liabilities, were: 2010 2009 m m Movement in plan assets At 1 July 54.9 63.8 Expected return on plan assets 3.6 4.8 Actuarial gains losses 9.8 13.8 Employer contributions 2.0 2.0 Plan participants contributions 0.6 0.7 Benets paid 2.6 2.6 At 30 June 68.3 54.9 Movement in benefit obligation At 1 July 71.6 71.7 Service cost 1.1 1.3 Interest cost 4.6 4.6 Plan participants contributions 0.6 0.7 Actuarial losses gains 14.1 4.1 Benets paid 2.6 2.6 At 30 June 89.4 71.6 Market value of the Schemes assets 68.3 54.9 Present value of the Schemes obligations 89.4 71.6 deficit in the Scheme 21.1 16.7 Related deferred tax asset 5.9 4.7 15.2 12.0 Analysed as: Non-current asset 5.9 4.7 Non-current liability 21.1 16.7 15.2 12.0 Actual return on Scheme assets 13.4 9.0 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 101 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 19.
Pensions and other post-employment benets continued History of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Present value of the Scheme obligations 89.4 71.6 71.7 73.2 69.2 Fair value of the Scheme assets 68.3 54.9 63.8 66.0 56.9 21.1 deficit in the Scheme 16.7 7.9 7.2 12.3 Difference between expected and actual return on the Schemes assets: Amount 9.8 13.8 8.4 4.1 5.8 Percentage of the Schemes assets 14.3% 25.1% 13.2% 6.2% 10.2% Experience gains and losses on the Schemes liabilities: Amount 14.1 4.1 6.4 0.5 6.7 Percentage of the present value of the Schemes liabilities 15.8% 5.7% 8.9% 0.7% 9.7% Total amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense: Amount 4.3 9.7 2.0 4.6 0.9 Percentage of the present value of the Schemes liabilities 4.8% 13.5% 2.8% 6.3% 1.3% 20.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Non-current liabilities 2010 2009 m m Unsecured bank loans 49.5 58.3 Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.4 49.6 58.7 Current liabilities 2010 2009 m m Overdrafts 6.1 13.1 Unsecured bank loans 0.1 0.1 Invoice selling facility 8.9 12.6 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.7 15.4 26.5 Total borrowings 65.0 85.2 Bank loans and overdrafts are repayable as follows: 2010 2009 m m In less than one year 6.2 13.2 Between one and two years 0.2 57.9 Between two and five years 49.3 0.4 Total repayable 55.7 71.5 Finance lease liabilities 2010 2009 Minimum Finance Present Minimum Finance Present payments charge value payments charge value m m m m m m Falling due in less than one year 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.8 0.1 0.7 Between one and five years 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.4 1.2 0.1 1.1 Material leases relate to land and buildings at Rosporden, France, with the option to buy them for a consideration of 1 at the end of the lease on 1 January 2011 and for plant and equipment at Bergamo where the option to buy is 1% 31,000 of initial cost.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 102 21.
Financial instruments and Treasury risk management 2009: 0.6m loss and was recognised on the balance sheet within Exposures to credit, interest rate and currency risk arise in the other payables and non-trade receivables.
During the year normal course of the Groups business.
Risk management policies 0.1 million 2009: 0.5m of fair value net gain was recorded in and hedging activities are outlined below.
Derivative financial the income statement.
The cash ows for the forward contracts instruments are used to hedge exposure to uctuations in foreign are expected to occur substantially within the next financial year, exchange rates and interest rates in accordance with Group policy.
at the same time as the underlying forecasted transactions.
Credit risk Translation risk arises at the consolidated Group level, on earnings Trading exposures are monitored and managed by Group operating and net assets denominated in currencies other than pounds companies against agreed policy levels.
Credit insurance is employed sterling.
The Groups policy is to hedge a substantial proportion where it is considered to be cost-effective.
Financial exposures of overseas net assets, using foreign currency borrowings and are incurred only with financial institutions appointed as Group swaps, in order to mitigate the risk of volatility in reported net assets company bankers and approved at Group level.
and key financial ratios as a result of exchange rate uctuations.
The interest on these foreign currency borrowings and swaps At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations provides a natural hedge of the translation exposure on our earnings of credit risk.
The majority of the trade receivables exposure is in the denominated in the same currencies, and this cover is supplemented UK and Euro zone with retail customers.
The maximum exposure to by the purchase of exchange rate options when cost-effective.
credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
Euro, Zloty and Malaysian Ringgit RM forward contracts were designated as hedges of the Groups investments in its subsidiaries Impairment losses on trade receivables have been disclosed in in the Euro zone, Poland and Malaysia.
The notional value of note 16. these contracts at 30 June 2010 were 20.8 million 2009: 17.0m, Zloty 55.0 million 2009: Zloty 54.0m and RM 19.4 million Interest rate risk 2009: RM nil.
A foreign exchange gain of 0.5 million Hedging 2009: 0.2m gain was recognised in equity on the contracts.
The Group is exposed to changes in prevailing interest rates on its primarily oating-rate debt.
The Group has partially covered this risk Foreign currency risk exposure may also arise on financial assets with interest rate swaps, which had the effect of xing the rate on and liabilities.
Group policy allows for such currency exposure a notional principal debt amount of 60 million 2009: 60m.
The to be economically hedged with forward contracts.
Group classies such swaps as cash ow hedges and states them at fair value, which amounted to a loss of 3.2 million 2009: 2.6m loss.
Changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign Foreign currency risk currencies and for which no hedge accounting is applied are The Group is exposed to foreign currency transaction and recognised in the income statement.
Both the changes in fair translation risks.
value of the forward contracts and the foreign exchange gains and losses relating to the monetary items are recognised as Transaction risk arises on sales and purchases denominated in part of net nancing costs see note 6. currencies other than the respective functional currency of each Group company.
The magnitude of this exposure is relatively low, Sensitivity analysis because the substantial majority of our sales and purchases are In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims denominated in functional currency.
to reduce the impact of short-term uctuations on the Groups earnings.
The Groups policy is to fully hedge such exposures as soon as they become committed.
In addition, Group companies are required to Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign hedge a proportion of their highly probable forecast exposures, on exchange and interest rates would have an impact on future a rolling 12-month basis.
The Group hedges these exposures using consolidated earnings.
For the financial period to 30 June 2010 it is estimated that a For accounting purposes the Group classies its forward exchange general increase or decrease by 100 basis points in interest rates contracts hedging rm commitments and forecasted transactions would have increased or decreased the Groups profit before tax as cash ow hedges, where they meet the hedge accounting by approximately 0.6 million 2009: 0.8m, excluding the impact criteria, and they are recorded at fair value.
The fair value of forward of the interest rate swaps.
Including the swaps reduces the impact exchange contracts used as hedges of rm commitments and on profit before tax to 0.1 million 2009: 0.3m.
forecasted transactions at 30 June 2010 was a loss of 1.3 million McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 103 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 21.
Financial instruments and treasury risk management continued It is estimated that a general increase of 10 percentage points in the value of the Pound Sterling against other foreign currencies would have decreased the Groups profit before tax by 2.3 million for the year ended 30 June 2010 2009: 1.8m due to translation of foreign subsidiaries profits, assuming all other variables remained constant.
A decrease of 10 percentage points in the value of the Pound Sterling against other foreign currencies would have increased profit before tax by 2.9 million 2009: 2.2m.
Interest rate risk management quantication This table analyses the currency and interest rate composition of the Groups financial assets and liabilities excluding short-term trade receivables and payables as they are non-interest-bearing and therefore not normally subject to any interest rate risk, except in certain instances where the terms of payment are not adhered to.
Impact of Total Other Euro interest carrying Euro Sterling currencies rate swaps value 2010 2010 Period in which interest rate re-prices m m m m m Financial liabilities: Fixed rate In less than one year 0.3 12.3 12.6 Between one and two years 0.1 0.1 36.8 Between two and five years 36.8 Floating rate In less than one year 5.5 9.2 0.4 15.1 Between one and two years 0.1 0.1 0.2 Between two and five years 49.3 49.1 0.2 Due after five years 55.2 9.2 0.6 65.0 Currency swaps Less than six months 17.0 31.9 14.9 Total financial liabilities 72.2 22.7 15.5 65.0 Financial assets: Floating rate 2.4 0.5 2.1 5.0 Total financial assets 2.4 0.5 2.1 5.0 Net financial liabilities assets 69.8 23.2 13.4 60.0 Impact of Total Other Euro interest carrying Euro Sterling currencies rate swaps value 2009 2009 Period in which interest rate re-prices m m m m m Financial liabilities: Fixed rate In less than one year 0.7 0.7 Between one and two years 0.3 0.1 12.8 13.2 Between two and five years 38.3 38.3 Floating rate In less than one year 11.8 14.0 25.8 Between one and two years 57.9 51.1 6.8 Between two and five years 0.4 0.4 Due after five years 71.1 14.0 0.1 85.2 Currency swaps In less than six months 14.5 25.4 10.9 Total financial liabilities 85.6 11.4 11.0 85.2 Financial assets: Floating rate 0.6 2.2 2.8 Total financial assets 0.6 2.2 2.8 Net financial liabilities assets 85.0 11.4 8.8 82.4 Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest based on base rates and short-term interbank rates predominantly LIBOR, EURIBOR and some EONIA.
Fixed rate borrowings relate to finance leases, which have weighted average interest rates between 2% and 10% 2009: 3% and 7%, and the impact of the 60 million 2009: 60m interest rate swaps from LIBOR to 3.88% 2009: 3.88%.
The currency swaps reect the currency in which the interest is borne.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 104 Liquidity risk management On 15 June 2010 the Group concluded a new 175 million revolving credit facility, which is provided by four major banks and remains committed until June 2015.
The Group is required to comply with certain undertakings which are typical for unsecured borrowing facilities.
These include financial covenants regarding interest cover and debt cover, as these ratios are dened in the facility agreement.
The Group was fully compliant with all such undertakings and covenants at 30 June 2010.
Further liquidity is provided by a UK sales invoice selling facility, which amounted to 25 million at 30 June 2010 2009: 25m and is committed until June 2012.
The amount unutilised in the revolving credit facility at the year end was 94.2 million 2009: 90.8m.
The maturity prole of the Groups financial liabilities, excluding short-term creditors such as trade payables and accruals, which form part of the Groups day-to-day operating cycle, is disclosed in note 20.
Maturity of all short-term trade payables is less than one year.
The table below details the Group liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments, based on undiscounted net cash inows and outows.
When the amount payable is not xed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to market yield curves prevailing at the reporting date.
Due Less than 3 months- 2010 1 month 1-3 months 1 year 1- 5 years Total Net settled: Foreign currency contracts 0.3 0.4 0.7 Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.4 0.8 1.9 3.2 Gross settled: Foreign currency contracts 0.1 0.2 2.0 0.1 2.4 2.4 Currency swaps 1.9 0.5 1.7 0.2 2.4 2.0 2.5 2009 Net settled: Foreign currency contracts Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.3 1.0 1.2 2.6 Gross settled: Foreign currency contracts 0.1 0.8 0.9 Currency swaps 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.3 1.8 1.2 2.7 Currency risk management net asset exposure As indicated on page 103, it is the objective of the Group to minimise currency risk by hedging its currency exposure.
The Group operates significant businesses in Continental Europe, denominated in Euros and other European currencies, and in South East Asia.
The Group has exposure to movements in exchange rates on net assets.
In order to hedge these exposures the Group arranges foreign currency funding, both internal and external, and uses forward contracts to hedge part of the remaining net exposure to foreign currency assets in line with Group policy.
The net asset exposure and the effect of the rolling forward contracts is shown below.
Impact of forward contracts on net assets currency exposure Net assets Net assets before Forward after hedging contracts hedging 2010 m m m Sterling 63.8 31.9 95.7 Euro 42.2 17.0 25.2 Other 18.1 14.9 3.2 Total net assets 124.1 124.1 Net assets Net assets before Forward after hedging contracts hedging 2009 m m m Sterling 61.7 25.4 87.1 Euro 44.8 14.5 30.3 Other 12.9 10.9 2.0 Total net assets 119.4 119.4 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 105 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 21.
Financial instruments and treasury risk management continued Fair value disclosure The Group has adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments at fair value.
The amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level.
Level 1: quoted prices for identical instruments Level 2: directly or indirectly observable market inputs Level 3: inputs which are not based on observable market data At 30 June 2010 the Group book and fair values of its financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in the table below, including the fair value level measurement used on assets and liabilities carried at fair value: 2010 2009 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value m m m m Forward exchange contracts level 2 1.1 1.1 0.2 0.2 Interest rate swaps level 2 3.2 3.2 2.6 2.6 Contingent consideration on acquisition level 3 0.6 0.6 Financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost Bank loans, overdrafts and other loans 64.6 64.6 84.1 84.1 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.4 1.1 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 5.0 5.0 2.8 2.8 Trade and other payables 182.6 182.6 170.8 170.8 Trade receivables 128.3 128.3 124.2 124.2 Total 117.0 117.0 131.4 131.4 The contingent consideration note 4 relates to a put call option exercisable by a minority shareholder and has been recorded at fair value based on the probabilities of the conditions of the earn-out buy-out met.
2010 2009 Notional value of forward contracts m m Euros purchased 42.4 33.5 Euros sold 39.1 24.7 Polish Zlotys sold 10.9 10.3 Malaysian Ringgits sold 4.0 US Dollars purchased 2.8 2.3 Sterling purchased 0.1 0.1 Hungarian Forints sold 0.6 8.7 0.3 Capital risk management The Groups objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders, and to maintain an efficient capital structure to manage the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividend paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders and issue new shares or buy back existing shares.
The Group is committed to maintaining a debt equity capital structure that is sufciently robust to ensure continued access to a broad range of nancing sources and thus be able to maintain sufficient exibility to pursue commercial opportunities.
To achieve this the Group monitors a range of financial measures including net debt, net interest cover, debt cover and gearing.
Share capital Authorised Allotted, called up and fully paid Number m Number m Ordinary shares of 10 pence each At 1 July 2009 500,000,000 50.0 180,288,282 18.0 At 30 June 2010 500,000,000 50.0 181,040,301 18.1 At 30 June 2010 a total of 824,498 Treasury shares with 82,450 nominal value 2009: 752,019 shares with 75,202 nominal value were held to satisfy future exercises of employee share options.
Ordinary shares carry full voting rights and holders are entitled to attend Company meetings and to receive dividends see page 67.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 106 23.
Employee share schemes Share options The table below lists share option schemes existing between 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2010: Options Weighted Options 2009 granted in Options average cancelled 2010 2010 Option Earliest Option the year exercised share lapsed Option Exercisable exercise exercise Expiry Option type number number during year price during year number number price date date 1995 International Executive Share Option Scheme 273,504 273,504 0.585 0.585 n a n a 2002 Unapproved Discretionary Share Option Scheme 236,111 236,111 0.72 0.72 n a n a 2009 Savings Related Share 30 Mar 29 Sept Option Scheme 3,927,632 2,699 0.935 235,350 3,689,583 0.935 2012 2012 4,437,247 512,314 235,350 3,689,583 Please refer to page 72 for further details on the options above.
McBride Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Group operates a performance based LTIP, comprising both equity-settled and cash-settled awards with a three year vesting period, for senior executives.
The percentage of the award vesting is dependent on the performance of the Group against the following criteria: Total shareholder return TSR : 50% of the award relates to comparing the TSR of McBride shares with the TSR of the companies in the FTSE 250 Ex.
Investment Companies Index see page 72.
Earnings per share EPS : 50% of the award relates to comparing the EPS growth of the Group with movements in the Retail Price Index see page 76.
Fair values of awards granted in 2009 and 2010 The following assumptions were used to determine the fair value of the LTIPs using a variant of the Monte Carlo pricing model: 2010 2009 Risk-free interest rate 2.6% 4.3% Discounted share price on grant date pence 202.94p 102.81p Dividend yield on stock 3.5% 3.2% Dividend yield on index 2.7% 5.5% Volatility for stock 55.0% 39.0% Volatility for index 30.0% 21.0% Expected life of LTIPs 3 years 3 years Expected volatility was determined based on weekly information and over a weighted three year period where the annualised standard deviation of the weekly log-normal returns is calculated.
Number of Weighted awards fair value granted pence Issued in the year ended 30 June 2010 outstanding and not exercisable 793,641 158.5 Issued in the year ended 30 June 2009 outstanding and not exercisable 1,652,602 79.7 The Company recognised total expenses of 1.7 million relating to share-based transactions in 2010 2009: 0.5m, of which 1.1 million 2009: 0.4m related to equity-settled share-based transactions, and 0.6 million to cash-settled share-based transactions 2009: 0.1m.
During the year, 0.1 million shares relating to the TSR element of the LTIP award granted during the year ended 30 June 2007 vested, having met the performance criteria.
For the LTIP award granted during the year ended 30 June 2008, 0.4 million shares relating to both TSR and EPS elements of the award are expected to vest having met the performance criteria.
At 30 June 2010, 0.5 million shares relating to subsequent grants have lapsed.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 107 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Notes to the Group financial statements Continued 24.
Employee numbers and costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 2010 2009 Operations 4,285 4,257 Sales and marketing 332 306 Finance and administration 478 442 Total full-time equivalent employees 5,095 5,005 2010 2009 m m The aggregate payroll costs were: Wages and salaries 133.6 123.6 Share scheme costs 1.7 0.5 Social security costs 26.2 24.7 Pension costs 2.3 2.4 Total payroll costs 163.8 151.2 Pension costs include the current service costs for dened benefit schemes and payments to dened contribution schemes but exclude dened benefit scheme costs included within net nancing costs.
Net debt Cash and debt acquired Exchange 2009 Cash ow note 4 movements 2010 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet 2.8 1.7 0.5 5.0 Overdrafts 13.1 7.0 6.1 Cash and cash equivalents per the cash ow statement 10.3 8.7 0.5 1.1 Debt: Due after one year 58.3 7.0 0.1 1.9 49.5 Debt: Due within one year 12.7 3.7 9.0 Finance leases 1.1 0.7 0.4 Net debt 82.4 20.1 0.4 1.9 60.0 Cash and debt Exchange 2008 Cash ow acquired movements 2009 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet 4.4 1.6 2.8 Overdrafts 7.8 7.5 2.2 13.1 Cash and cash equivalents per the cash ow statement 3.4 9.1 2.2 10.3 Debt: Due after one year 82.1 30.6 6.8 58.3 Debt: Due within one year 15.8 3.1 12.7 Finance leases 2.0 0.9 1.1 Net debt 103.3 25.5 4.6 82.4 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 108 26.
Commitments 2010 2009 m m Capital expenditure Contracted but not provided 3.5 2.7 Operating leases Total payments under operating leases analysed over periods when the leases expire are as follows: 2010 2009 Total operating leases m m Within one year 4.4 4.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 9.2 10.0 6.7 After five years 7.2 20.3 21.6 2010 2009 Leases of land and buildings which expire m m Within one year 1.6 1.3 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3.7 3.5 After five years 6.7 7.0 12.0 11.8 2010 2009 Other leases which expire m m Within one year 2.8 3.1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 5.5 6.5 After five years 0.2 8.3 9.8 Other operating leases related mainly to plant and equipment.
Subsequent events On 1 September 2010, the Group agreed the acquisition of a 70% interest in Dermacol a. s. a manufacturer of skincare products based in the Czech Republic, for an expected consideration of around 8 million CZK240 million from its parent company, Alphaduct a. s. The Group has also agreed to purchase the remaining 30% of the shares in late 2017 for a consideration based on the operating profit of Dermacol a. s. in the 2017 financial year.
The total consideration cannot exceed a maximum of 21.7 million CZK650 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, Dermacol a. s. reported a profit before tax of 0.8 million CZK24.1 million.
At 31 December 2009, gross assets were 10.4 million CZK312 million.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 109 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label
