Denitions and glossary of terms Our aim is to use plain English in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Company, McBride, we, our or us However, where necessary, we do use a number of technical terms We use the terms the Company, McBride, we, our, us to refer and or abbreviations and we summarise the principal ones below, to either McBride plc itself or to McBride plc and its subsidiaries together with an explanation of their meanings.
The descriptions collectively, depending on context.
below are not formal legal denitions.
Consolidated financial statements Financial statements that include the results and financial position A of the Group, i. e. the Company and its subsidiaries together, as if they Acquisition cost were a single entity.
The amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration given to acquire an asset at the time of its Continental Europe acquisition.
Western Continental Europe and Eastern Continental Europe.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share Core product categories profit after tax but before exceptional items and amortisation of Growth categories chosen by McBride for particular focus because intangible assets divided by the weighted average number of shares they offer the highest growth and profit potential.
Currently these in issue, on assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive are machine dishwashing, specialist cleaners, laundry liquids, air care ordinary share options.
Adjusted operating profit Corporate social responsibility CSR Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets and The concept whereby companies integrate economic, social and exceptional items.
environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders.
McBride recognises its Annual General Meeting AGM obligations to all those with whom it has dealings.
Meeting of shareholders of the Company held each year to consider ordinary and special business as provided in the Notice of AGM.
Customer service level Volume of products delivered in the correct amounts and B within agreed timescales relative to the total volumes ordered Board by the customers.
The Board of Directors of the Company for more information see page 48.
E Earnings per share C profit after tax attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted Carrying value average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The amount at which an asset or a liability is recorded in the balance sheet.
Eastern Continental Europe Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Cyprus, Greece, Cash ow statement Baltic and Balkan states and former CIS countries.
Statement showing movements of cash and cash equivalents during an accounting period, classied by three types of activity: operating Energy efficiency activities, investing activities and nancing activities.
The value of production in tonnes relative to the amount of energy used Giga joules.
Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, soon to be replaced Exceptional items by the UK Corporate Governance Code, provides guidance on how Items which fall outside of and are incremental to the normal companies should be governed, applicable to UK listed companies, course of business which, in managements judgement, need to be including McBride plc.
disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 117 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Denitions and glossary of terms Continued F I Fair value IFRS The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability The International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued by the settled, between knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms International Accounting Standards Board, and adopted for use in length transaction.
the European Union EU in accordance with EU law and the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS is also used as a term to describe Financial year international generally accepted accounting principles as a whole.
For McBride this is an accounting year ending on 30 June.
These apply to the Groups financial statements which are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
FRS UK Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the UK Accounting L Standards Board.
These apply to the parent companys financial Lost time accidents statements which are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
An accident arising out of McBrides operations which leads to an injury where the employee or contractor normally has time off the FTSE4Good following day or shift following the incident.
It relates to one specic An index of leading companies which meet globally recognised acute identiable incident which arises at McBrides premises, standards of corporate responsibility.
McBride has been a member plant or activities, which was reported at the time and was subject to of FTSE4Good since 2009. appropriate investigation.
G Lost time frequency GW The number of lost time accidents per 100,000 hours worked in a Gigawatt, being an amount of power equal to 1 billion watts 12 month period.
N GWh Net debt Gigawatt hours, being an amount of energy equal to delivering The total of loans both long and short-term, overdrafts and 1 billion watts of power for a period of one hour.
finance lease commitments less cash and cash equivalents.
Group Management Team GMT O The team of senior divisional managers responsible for development Organic revenue growth and implementation of the Group strategy, culture and commercial Sales revenues adjusted to exclude any impact of acquisitions, plan and for allocating resources and ensuring transfer of disposals and currency exchange rate movements.
The GMT is chaired by the Chief Executive.
H HSE Health and Safety Executive, the main safety regulator in the UK.
Household Products Products to clean or freshen households and laundry, including laundry powder and liquids, dishwashing products, household cleaners, toilet cleaners and air care products.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 118 P U Personal Care products UK Personal care and toiletry products including baby care, bath and The United Kingdom, comprising England, Wales, Scotland and shower products, hair shampoo, body care, mens grooming, oral Northern Ireland.
UK GAAP Private Label products Generally accepted accounting principles in the UK.
Products which are manufactured exclusively to be sold under the retailers trade mark, also known as store brands, distributor W brands, own labels and own brands.
Waste efficiency The volume of waste in tonnes relative to the total R production tonnage.
REACh Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Water efficiency Chemicals legislation regarding the safe use of chemicals.
The volume of production in tonnes relative to the amount of water cubic metres used in the business.
Return on capital employed ROCE Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets and Western Continental Europe exceptional items as a percentage of net assets excluding net debt.
Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain are the principal countries included within Western Continental Europe.
S Segment reporting Financial information based on the consolidated financial statements, reported by the Groups operating segments UK, Western Continental Europe and Eastern Continental Europe.
Subsidiary A company or other entity that is controlled by McBride plc.
T Treasury shares Shares that have been repurchased by the Company but not cancelled.
In accordance with the authority granted by shareholders at the AGM, such shares can be sold for cash or, in appropriate circumstances, used to meet obligations under employee share schemes.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 119 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label
