Our online resources McBride communicates its financial and sustainability performance as well as providing additional information about the Group at its website: www.
co. uk McBrides Annual Report and Accounts are available to view online or to download from: http: www.
co. uk investors welcome McBrides Sustainability Reports are available to view online or to download from: http: www.
co. uk our-responsibilities  Latest announcements can be found at the McBride online media centre at: http: www.
co. uk mediacentre regulatory-news McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 120 Acknowledgements McBride would like to thank employee Fabien Plamont of the leper Household factory, together with: Design and production: The College www.
com Principal photography: Ian Routledge Printing and paper: This report has been printed by The Colourhouse, a Carbon Footprint Approved Company.
The Paper is produced using 100% chlorine-free ECF bleaching process and contains material sourced from responsibly managed and sustainable forests together with recycled bre, certied in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Both the paper and the printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001.
The printer also holds FSC status.
If you have nished reading the report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to McBride plc or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This Annual report is available at: www.
co. uk McBride plc 28th Floor Centre Point 103 New Oxford Street London WC1A 1DD United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 20 7539 7850 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7539 7855 www.
co. uk McBride has been accepted into the McBride has been a leading contributor FTSE4Good Index of leading companies in the development of the AISE Charter for which meet globally recognised corporate sustainable cleaning and was the first Private responsibility standards.
Label company to achieve Charter status.
