MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 44 Directors report The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as The directors of the Company who were in ofce during the year and up adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the to the date of signing the financial statements were: Sir Colin Terry, Companies Act 2006.
Mr T Twigger, Mr G S Berruyer appointed 2 October 2012, Mr P G Cox The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance appointed 27 September 2012, Mr P E Green, Mr P Heiden, Ms B L with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Reichelderfer, Mr D A Robins, Mr D M Williams and Mr S G Young.
On 9 January 2013, Mr Twigger advised the Board of his intention to step The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to down as Chief Executive and member of the Board on 1 May 2013. affect its future development, performance and position, are contained Following a rigorous search process, involving internal and external in the Business Review pages 1 to 41.
All such information as is candidates, the Board determined that Mr Twigger will be succeeded as required to be contained in the Directors Report by Section 417 of the Chief Executive by Mr Young, who has been Group Finance Director since Companies Act 2006 is incorporated by reference into this report.
Mr Twigger will support the Board and Mr Young until his Corporate Governance Report pages 47 to 51 also forms part of this retirement on 30 June 2013.
The recruitment process has begun for a report.
Policies on financial risk management, including the extent to which Under the Articles of Association the Articles, one-third of the directors financial instruments are utilised to mitigate any significant risks to are subject to re-election every year.
However, in accordance with the UK which the Group is exposed, are set out in note 3 of the Groups Corporate Governance Code, at the Annual General Meeting AGM in financial statements.
2013 all directors will stand for re-election except for Mr Twigger, who is stepping down on that date.
Principal activities Details of directors contracts and their interests in the ordinary shares Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 62.
Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in None of the directors has, or has had, at any time during the financial England and Wales with the registered number 432989.
Its registered year a beneficial interest in any material contract relating to the business ofce is at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth of the Group other than service contracts.
The directors have the benefit of qualifying third-party indemnity Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high pursuant to the Articles which were in effect throughout the financial performance components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence year and up to the date of this Directors Report.
The Company also and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors and Ofcers test and automotive.
No indemnity is provided for the Companys auditors.
Dividends Substantial shareholdings The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.20p net At 31 December 2012, the Company had been notied under the per ordinary 5p share 2011: 7.30p, to be paid on 10 May 2013 to those Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the following substantial members on the register at close of business on 15 March 2013. interests in the issued ordinary shares of the Company requiring disclosure: An interim dividend of 3.60p 2011: 3.20p was paid on 5 October 2012.
If the final dividend as recommended is approved the total ordinary Percentage of dividend for the year will amount to 11.80p net per ordinary total voting rights attaching 5p share 2011: 10.50p.
to the issued ordinary share Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax Direct voting Indirect voting capital of the credit of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rates of income tax will rights rights Company have additional tax to pay.
The Capital Group Shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend alternative under Companies, Inc. 74,972,665 9.55 the share dividend plan in respect of the proposed final dividend.
Prudential plc 64,753,939 8.25 FMR LLC 39,304,285 5.01 During 2012, the Company made the Meggitt PLC share dividend plan Baillie Gifford & Co 34,138,890 4.35 available for the dividends paid in May 2012 the final dividend for 2011 Legal & General Group plc 25,966,967 3.31 and in October 2012 the interim dividend for 2012.
The cash dividend Standard Life Investments Ltd 22,153,694 3,769,560 3.30 necessary to give an entitlement to one new ordinary share was xed at 403.08p and 408.78p respectively.
One voting right per ordinary share.
Between 31 December 2012 and 22 February 2013, The Capital Group Acquisitions and disposals Companies, Inc. has notied an increase in holding to 11.08% 86,993,907 On 4 July 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of indirect voting rights.
Fotomechanix Limited for a cash consideration of 11.9 million.
Fotomechanix Limited is a key supplier to Heatric, the Groups printed Conicts of interest circuit heat exchanger business.
The Company has a procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation On 10 August 2012, the Group disposed of the business and assets of and management of directors conicts of interest and potential conicts Meggitt Simi Valley, Inc. to RSA Engineered Products, Inc. for a cash of interest, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. consideration of 16.1m.
The procedure is included in the Articles and has been adhered to by the Board since its introduction in 2008.
In deciding whether to authorise a conict or potential conict the directors must have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorisation of any conict matter, and the terms of authorisation are reviewed by the Board as appropriate and, as a minimum on an annual basis.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 45 Share capital and control Corporate responsibility The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2012 and The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical details of shares issued during the financial year are shown in note 34 matters.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report gives a full update on on page 100.
On 31 December 2012 there were 785,001,257 ordinary activities and achievements during 2012 and can be found on pages 31 shares in issue.
A further 83,273 ordinary shares were issued between to 36.
1 January 2013 and 22 February 2013, all of which were issued as a result The Group continues to carry out its responsibilities for securing the of the exercise of share awards.
The ordinary shares are listed on the health, safety and welfare at work of employees and for protecting others London Stock Exchange.
against risks to health and safety relating to the activities at work of The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares those employees.
Every reasonable effort is made to provide safe are set out in the Articles.
A copy of the Articles is available for working conditions.
Protective equipment is provided and safety training inspection at the registered ofce.
The holders of ordinary shares are takes place regularly.
There is a Group Health and Safety Policy, which entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and was reviewed and updated by the Board of Directors in December 2011. speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies to exercise The Group regards employee communication as a vital business function.
full voting rights and to participate in any distribution of income or Communication and consultation is carried out at facilities by operations capital.
directors and other line managers using a variety of forums from daily There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding ordinary meetings on shop oors to monthly all employee Town Hall meetings, shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There team briengs and works councils.
We ensure that all employee relations are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by regulations are respected.
persons other than holders of the shares and no known agreements Corporate communications take a variety of forms, including or restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired presentations from the Chief Executive via audio-visual media, global through Company share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing with web-enabled conferences, publications such as the Meggitt Review and a the shares in issue and have no special rights.
variety of electronically distributed newsletters.
Results presentations The Company has disclosed significant direct or indirect holdings, are disseminated across the Group, which enhance our employees which are published on a regulatory information service and on the understanding of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys website.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company directors are The directors encourage employees to become shareholders to improve contained in the Articles which provide that a director may be appointed active participation in, and commitment to, the Groups success.
This by ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing directors, either policy has been pursued for all UK employees through the Share to ll a vacancy or as an additional director.
Changes to the Articles must Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
be submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special The Group has a policy supporting the principle of equal opportunities in resolution.
The directors may exercise all the powers of the Company employment and opposing all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination.
subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Articles and any It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The powers of the disabled people, to continue wherever possible to employ staff who directors include those in relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
At become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career each AGM, the shareholders are requested to renew the directors development and promotion of disabled employees.
powers to allot securities in the Company up to the value specified in the notice of meeting and to renew the directors powers to allot securities The Group has an Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and a Code of without the application of pre-emption rights up to the value specified Conduct which are overseen by the Vice-President of Ethics and in the notice of meeting in accordance with the Articles.
All employees have received a copy of the Code, can seek authority from the shareholders at the AGM to purchase its supplemented by follow-up training, which is refreshed regularly.
and business conduct is reviewed regularly by a Board committee.
The Group has significant nancing agreements which include change of Community relations and charitable donations control provisions which, should there be a change of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, withdrawal or early repayment During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 0.2 million of these nancing agreements.
These are a USD 400 million revolving 2011: 0.1 million, principally to local charities serving the communities credit agreement dated July 2012, a USD 700 million revolving credit in which the Group operates.
The Company made charitable donations of agreement dated April 2011, a USD 600 million note purchase agreement 30,000 2011: 15,000. dated June 2010 and a USD 250 million note purchase agreement dated June 2003.
There are a number of other long-term commercial Political contributions agreements that may alter or terminate upon a change of control of the In accordance with the Groups policy, no contributions were made to EU Company following a successful takeover bid.
These arrangements are political parties or EU political organisations 2011: Nil and no EU commercially condential and their disclosure could be seriously political expenditure exceeding 2,000 was incurred in the year by the prejudicial to the Company.
Company or any of its subsidiaries 2011: none above 2,000.
No The service contracts for the executive directors state that if there is contributions to non-EU organisations with political objectives were a change of control in the Company, executive directors may terminate made during the year 2011: Nil.
their employment within six months and would be entitled to compensation from the Company for loss of ofce.
The compensation would be annual remuneration plus the value of benets for the unexpired notice period less 5%.
The Company does not have any agreements with the non-executive directors or any other employees that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 46 Directors report continued Payment policy Statement of directors responsibilities The Companys policy is to seek to comply with the terms of payment The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the agreed with a supplier.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Company Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
The Companys applicable law and regulations and consider the Annual Report, taken as creditor days at 31 December 2012 were 44 2011: 39. a whole, to be fair balanced and understandable and to provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Research and development performance, business model and strategy.
The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements development programmes which enhance the Groups products and the for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to way they are made.
Including amounts funded by customers, expenditure prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as on research and development amounted to 122.0 million 2011: 110.5 adopted by the EU and the Company financial statements in accordance million.
Excluding amounts funded by customers, it was 97.1 million with UK GAAP.
2011: 83.2 million, of which 52.2 million 2011: 41.5 million was Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policies see note statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 2 of the Groups financial statements.
the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Annual General Meeting 1 May 2013 directors are required to: Details of the AGM and explanations of the proposed resolutions appear VHOHFW VXLWDEOH DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV DQG DSSO WKHP FRQVLVWHQWO in the separate Notice provided to shareholders in their elected format at PDNH MXGJHPHQWV DQG DFFRXQWLQJ HVWLPDWHV WKDW DUH UHDVRQDEOH least 20 working days before the date of the AGM, and can be viewed on and prudent: and our website www.
In addition to routine business, VWDWH ZKHWKHU, 56V DV DGRSWHG E WKH 8 DQG DSSOLFDEOH 8. shareholders consent will be sought to: Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company i approve the Remuneration Report: financial statements respectively.
ii increase the maximum aggregate amount of directors fees: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records iii renew the authority of the directors to issue shares under Article 4 of that are sufficient to: i show and explain the Groups and the Companys the Articles: transactions: ii disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company: and iii enable them to iv approve payments to organisations of no more than 60,000 in total, ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report which might inadvertently be interpreted as donations to EU political comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial organisations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Act 2000 as amended by the Electoral Administration Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the not the policy of the Company to make donations to political parties Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the and the directors have no intention of changing that policy: and prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
v approve the convening of general meetings on 14 clear days notice in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of accordance with the Articles.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Auditors legislation in other jurisdictions.
 LLP has expressed its willingness to continue Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board as independent auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be of Directors on page 43, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: proposed at the 2013 AGM.
WKH URXS QDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV ZKLFK KDYH EHHQ SUHSDUHG LQ accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view Disclosure of information to auditors of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and At the date of this report, as far as the directors are aware, there is WKLV 'LUHFWRUV 5HSRUW DQG WKH %XVLQHVV 5HYLHZ RQ SDJHV WR no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are include a fair review of the development and performance of the unaware.
Each of the directors has taken all the necessary steps business and the position of the Group, together with a description of in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware By order of the Board of that information.
