MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 4 Group strategy Meggitt aims to deliver upper quartile industrial rotating machinery.
Our Our high-performance shareholder returns through smart compact, diffusion-bonded heat engineering for extreme environments exchanger technology has moved beyond culture is dedicated to innovative, high performance, highly its established oil and gas markets to meeting customer reliable products that meet the demands oating liqueed natural gas vessels requirements, underpinned of critical applications in civil aerospace, and waste heat recovery.
We see a military and energy markets.
Maintaining significant opportunity for growth by financial rigour and this focus has enabled us to deliver from our industry-leading sensing ethical best practice.
another strong set of results in 2012. technologies in healthcare through precision sensing components for non-invasive medical procedures.
Focused investment We invest in the design and manufacture Achieve operational excellence of products operating in extreme environments and subject to demanding The transformation initiative, launched in certication requirements.
This enables 2009, has delivered substantial groupus to win positions on new programmes, wide improvements including a atter, typically on a sole-source basis, capability-driven organisation structure generating aftermarket revenues for the and a leaner, more exible manufacturing life of these programmes, which can be footprint.
Our centralised customer up to 40 years in many cases.
relationship teams and strengthened engineering organisation enable us to We align our research and development engage with customers earlier in the investment with our customers technology development process, and at a programmes and technology plans.
This has made us more To meet the requirements of original responsive to changing customer equipment manufacturers and operators, demands and heightened customer we invest in manufacturing capacity and awareness of our full range of products regional customer support.
appropriate, we seek to acquire companies that enhance our capabilities In 2012, we started to invest in raising the and fast-track product and market bar, an on-time delivery and quality development.
This paved the way for 2013s rolling launch of the We continue to transfer technologies into Meggitt Production System, a common adjacent markets.
Strong growth in our Meggitt approach to the application of energy businesses has been supported by lean tools and quality management.
This the application of our aerospace-derived group-wide productivity drive will ensure condition monitoring capability into every business meets the standards of Our strategy Focus on components and sub-systems for harsh environments Invest in products with high technology content to secure sole-source positions with high aftermarket value Deliver growth through organic investment and acquisition MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 5 excellence expected by our customers ability to continue on its growth and meets them consistently.
We trajectory, not least as I hand over the are aiming to create a continuous reins to our Finance Director, Stephen improvement culture that will serve all Young, who has played a pivotal role in our businesses and enable our people to developing group strategy over the last deliver sustainable productivity gains.
While customers will see significant Aided by an established senior improvements, Meggitt will also benefit management team and a great workforce, from enhanced cost-competitiveness Stephen is committed to growing the through lower inventories, a leaner and group further, reinvesting our income more effective supply chain and lower stream into building and reinforcing our cost of quality.
Employing these infrastructure, extending capabilities and principles rigorously throughout the enhancing the skills and experience of group will enable us to drive our organic our managers and employees.
In so growth rate higher than the medium term doing, he will ensure that Meggitt target of 6 to 7%.
continues to deliver exemplary service to Across all functions, Meggitt continues its customers, rewarding careers to our to strive for excellence.
We maintain a employees and healthy returns to high-performance culture, dedicated to shareholders.
meeting customer requirements, underpinned by financial rigour and ethical best practice.
Building our future This is my last annual report and accounts as Chief Executive of Meggitt.
Terry Twigger Chief Executive Since joining the group in 1993, I have seen significant change.
We have grown from a diverse engineering conglomerate with a market capitalisation of 200 million to a global aerospace and energy business with a market capitalisation exceeding 3 billion.
The integration of Pacic scientific, one of many transforming acquisitions, is largely complete and I am confident in Meggitts How we achieve our strategy 1.
Meet the requirements of To see how Meggitts strategy technologies and markets our global customer base fundamentals are reflected at divisional level, see over.
Maintain a culture of ethical The results of strategy implementation are outlined partnerships with customers and financial rigour in our performance review on pages 19 to 30.
Achieve operational excellence by continually improving
