M ME EG GG GI IT TT P T PL LC C R RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 01 12 2 G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E Board of directors 43 43 Sir Colin Terry KBE CB DL FREng Philip Cox CBE David Robins Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Colin, a chartered engineer, was appointed Philip, a chartered accountant, was appointed David was appointed to the Board in January to the Board in February 2003, becoming nonto the Board in September 2012.
He was, until December 2000, Chairman executive Chairman on 1 July 2004.
He spent 37 Senior Vice President for Operational Planning and Chief Executive of ING Barings, before which years in the Royal Air Force, where he reached at Invensys plc and Finance Director of Siebe he spent 18 years at Phillips & Drew and UBS, the rank of Air Marshal.
Since retiring, he has PLC before joining International Power plc as becoming Executive Vice President and Regional held the positions of Group Managing Director Chief Financial officer in 2000.
He retires as Head of UBS Europe.
of Inite Engineering Services, Chairman of International Powers Chief Executive officer He is Chairman of Henderson Asian Growth the Engineering Council UK, President of the at the end of April 2013.
Trust, Fidelity Japanese Values Investment Trust Royal Aeronautical Society and the Council of Philip has been a non-executive director of and Oriel Securities Ltd, director of a venture European Aerospace Societies.
Sir Colin is now Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC since 2009, capital-backed company and chairman of Chairman of the UK Military Aviation Authority is Chairman of its Audit Committee and will two charities.
Safety Advisory Committee, member of the be appointed non-executive director of PPL Advisory Board of Horton International and Corporation, a US-listed energy utility company, non-executive director and Chairman of the on 1 April 2013.
Between 2001 and 2009, Philip David Williams Audit Committee of Fox Marble Holdings PLC.
was non-executive director and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director He is President of the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen Audit Committee for logistics and supply chain and Families Association in Buckinghamshire David, a chartered accountant, was appointed management group Wincanton plc.
where he is also a Deputy Lieutenant.
to the Board in December 2006, becoming Senior Independent Director in February 2011.
He held a number of senior financial positions Philip Green Terry Twigger before spending 15 years as Finance Director Group Corporate Affairs Director Chief Executive of distribution and outsourcing group Bunzl plc Philip joined Meggitt in 1994 as Group Company from 1991.
He is the Joint Chairman of Mondi plc Terry, a chartered accountant, joined Meggitt Secretary and was appointed to the Board in and Mondi Limited and non-executive director in 1993 and was appointed to the Board as January 2001 with responsibility for legal and and Audit Committee Chairman of DP World Group Finance Director in 1995, becoming Chief compliance matters.
He relinquished the role of Limited.
He was also a non-executive director Executive in January 2001.
Terry intends to step Company Secretary in 2006.
Previously, Philip and Audit Committee Chairman of Tullow Oil plc down as Chief Executive and Board member spent 14 years at British Aerospace.
He is a until his retirement in May 2012. after the annual general meeting on 1 May 2013.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Terry will support the Board and his successor, and Administrators.
Stephen Young, until his retirement on 30 June Stephen Young 2013.
Group Finance Director Since June 2009, Terry has been non-executive Paul Heiden Stephen, a chartered management accountant, director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Non-Executive Director was appointed to the Board in January 2004, and of Filtrona plc, an international speciality Paul, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed will assume the role of Chief Executive following plastic and bre products supplier.
to the Board in June 2010 and became Chairman the annual general meeting on 1 May 2013. of the Remuneration Committee in April Stephen has held a number of senior financial 2012.
He was Chief Executive of FKI Plc from Guy Berruyer positions including Group Finance Director of 2003 to 2008, having held a number of senior Non-Executive Director Thistle Hotels plc, Group Finance Director of positions, including Director, Industrial Business the Automobile Association and Group Financial Guy was appointed to the Board in October and Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc and Controller of Thorn EMI plc.
Guy is Group Chief Executive of The Sage senior financial positions with Peat Marwick, non-executive director of Derwent London plc in Group plc, whose French division he joined as Mitchell and Co, Hanson Plc and Mercury August 2010 and is Chairman of its Audit and Risk Chief Executive in 1997.
Guys early career was Communications.
Committees and member of its Remuneration spent with software and hardware vendors Paul is non-executive director and Chairman of and Nominations Committees.
in management roles both at French and the Audit and Risk Committees of UU Plc and the European level.
Guy trained as an electrical London Stock Exchange Group plc and Chairman engineer at the cole Polytechnique Fdrale of Intelligent Energy Holdings plc.
Membership of committees fide Lausanne and holds an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Audit: David Williams Chairman, Guy Berruyer, Philip Cox, Paul Heiden, Brenda Reichelderfer Guy does not hold any other non-executive Brenda Reichelderfer directorships.
Nominations: Sir Colin Terry Chairman, Terry Twigger, Non-Executive Director Guy Berruyer, Philip Cox, Paul Heiden, Brenda Reichelderfer, David Williams Brenda was appointed to the Board in June 2011.
Brenda, an engineer, was Senior Vice Remuneration: Paul Heiden Chairman, President, Director of Engineering and Chief Guy Berruyer, Philip Cox, Brenda Reichelderfer, Technology officer of ITT Industries Corporation, David Williams until her retirement in 2008.
She is Senior Vice Ethics and trade compliance: Sir Colin Terry Chairman, President and Managing Director of private Terry Twigger, Philip Green, Stephen Young equity sector consulting rm TriVista, a member of the Technology Transfer Group of the Missile Defense Agency and non-executive director of Federal Signal Corporation and Wencor Aerospace.
