Melrose Industries PLC 44 Annual Report 2012 Directors report The Directors of Melrose Industries PLC present their annual report and audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Company is not a passive investor in the businesses that it acquires.
The Directors and senior management team have a handsOn 12 October 2012, Melrose PLC announced its intention to on relationship with each acquired business, by working closely with implement a corporate reorganisation by way of a Court-approved their divisional senior management teams in developing the long term Scheme of Arrangement, pursuant to which a new listed holding strategic plans of the businesses, as well as having regular input company was to be introduced for the Melrose Group of companies.
on restructuring decisions, capital expenditure and working capital Following the approval by Melrose PLCs shareholders of the proposed management.
A natural part of this process involves the disposal of Scheme of Arrangement on 5 November 2012 and, subsequently, the non-core businesses.
Courts sanction of the proposed Scheme of Arrangement on 26 November 2012, the Scheme of Arrangement became effective The Company is fully committed to investing within the businesses it on 27 November 2012 and Melrose Industries PLC became the new acquires in order to fully exploit their operational and strategic strengths holding company of Melrose PLC and its subsidiaries.
and in 2012 capital expenditure increased to over twice depreciation in the Lifting, Energy and Other Industrial divisions.
In this Directors report and also the Corporate Governance report and Remuneration report, unless explicitly stated otherwise, references to Even though the acquisition of Elster was only completed in late August the Company and to Melrose are references to Melrose PLC up 2012, the Directors and senior management are very pleased with to but excluding 27 November 2012 and to Melrose Industries PLC the progress that has been made to date.
Many projects have either from 27 November 2012 onwards.
References to the Board, to the been completed, or are currently under way, including realigning the Directors and to Board positions are references to the Board, to the divisions into three global businesses of Gas, Electricity and Water and Directors and to Board positions of the relevant company for those the acceleration and broadening of the existing restructuring plan.
represents the first steps in the improvement programmes for the Elster businesses.
Further details can be found in the Chief Executives review STRATEGY on pages 14 and 15.
The Company has a proven track record in enhancing value within the Melrose has a buy, improve, sell strategy to acquire manufacturing businesses it purchases, a few examples of which are shown below: businesses, improve performance and realise their value in the medium term.
Shareholders investment in Melrose, net of dividends and returns t Dynacast of capital since 2003 amounts to approximately 1.1 billion.
Our market capitalisation, at the current share price, amounts to 3.3 billion, Melrose acquired Dynacast in May 2005 and sold this business in July meaning that over 2 billion of value has been created over this period.
During the six years of ownership, and as a result of a variety of Further details of each part of the strategy are shown below.
Additional improvement initiatives and investments made by Melrose, the equity information is also shown on pages 4 and 5. value increased fourfold.
Melrose successfully steered Dynacast through the global slowdown and cost savings made during the downturn were retained as sales recovered.
Melrose aims to acquire good manufacturing businesses that, in the t McKechnie Aerospace opinion of the Directors, are currently underperforming their potential.
Melrose acquired the McKechnie group in May 2005.
Part of this Businesses are targeted that have strong headline fundamentals, such purchase included the McKechnie Aerospace and aftermarkets as high quality products and or a leading market share, so as to enable business, which were ultimately sold in May 2007 for 428 million.
Melrose to generate sustainable cash ows, achieve profit growth and During the two year period of ownership within the Group revenues create value for shareholders.
grew by 35 per cent, EBITDA grew by approximately 75 per cent, with margins increasing by 6 percentage points.
The executive Directors have extensive experience of identifying and evaluating such acquisition opportunities, in both quoted and unquoted t Existing businesses companies, within the UK and overseas.
The Company funds the With regard to the current Melrose businesses that were purchased acquisition of such companies through a mixture of debt and equity, as part of the FKI transaction in July 2008, headline operating profit whilst maintaining prudent leverage levels.
margins have improved from 10 per cent at acquisition, to over 16 per cent currently, with further improvements anticipated.
In August 2012, the Company acquired Elster Group S. E. Elster for an enterprise value of approximately 1.8 billion: representing the largest Further details showing the types of investment that were carried out acquisition in Melroses history to date.
Elster is a world leader in the within some of the Groups businesses during 2012 can be seen in the provision of gas control equipment and related products, gas, electricity Divisional reviews section across.
and water meters, networking and software solutions.
The purchase of Elster approximately doubled the size of the Melrose Group.
Prior to this, the most significant acquisition was that of FKI plc, in July 2008, for an enterprise value of approximately 1 billion.
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 45 Brush t The restructuring of the generator manufacturing plant in the At the appropriate time, each business will be disposed of, in order to Netherlands.
return to shareholders the value that has been created.
The Directors t Further enhancements to various facilities designed to improve factory are experienced in being able to recognise the appropriate time for performance and productivity.
t The first full year impact of Hawker Siddeley Switchgears HSS absorption into the Turbogenerators business was realised during In June 2012, the McKechnie Plastic Components MPC business 2012. was sold for 30.7 million which, coupled with the sale of Dynacast in 2011 and the sale of McKechnie Aerospace in 2007 represents a Marelli complete sale of the Dynacast and McKechnie businesses.
t significant capital investment has been made in Marellis Italian production facility: this includes a new milling and balancing machine These sales have resulted in approximately 800 million in cash being and an extension and upgrade to the world class testing facility, in returned to shareholders in comparison to their equity contribution of each case to enable it to cater for the increase in size and volume of 244 million to the original purchase price of the businesses in 2005. the larger motors and generators.
t The shift of two further medium generator production lines from its PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Italian facility to its Malaysian production facility in order to access The Company reports according to four distinct trading divisions: Energy, cost benets and improve both exibility and their manufacturing Lifting, Other Industrial and Elster.
Within each division, the Companys footprint.
businesses operate autonomously under the supervision of Directors and senior management on a global scale, having manufacturing locations throughout the world, as shown on the world maps on pages 8 to 11.
Elster This approach has also been adopted for Elster following its acquisition t Each of the Elster businesses are cooperating on a joint software in August 2012.
Further details regarding the principal activities of each development initiative to address new opportunities in the data of the Companys businesses can be found within the Chief Executives analytics markets.
review on pages 14 and 15 and Divisional reviews on pages 16 to 26. t Now that we have realigned the division into three global businesses, a number of initiatives have been implemented, including: A summary of the key strengths, products and major customers of each Gas Group business is shown within the Group overview section of this Closure and outsourcing of the die casting facility in Nebraska, Annual Report on pages 8 to 11.
US and the restructure of the Perfection business in Ohio, US and the Hauck business in Pennsylvania, US.
DIVISIONAL REVIEWS Electricity The Company remains committed to investing in its various businesses The relocation of the manufacturing assembly in Raleigh, US and some recent examples of this can be seen below: to San Luis Potosi in Mexico and the reorganisation of the Brazilian and Argentinian operations.
Bridon Water t A new 20 million state-of-the-art manufacturing facility on the Closure of the facilities in Italy, Poland, Lampertheim in waterfront at Neptune Energy Park, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, Germany and Ocala in the US.
As a result of this investment Bridon is now capable of producing some of the worlds largest and most The Company actively encourages focused ongoing research and complex ropes for loading directly onto vessels.
development within each of its businesses.
During 2012, investment t Development of a new technology centre at Bridons Doncaster continued in the development of new and innovative product lines in the factory.
This is a new production, design, development and testing majority of the Groups businesses, with several product launches in the facility which will help to maintain Bridons worldwide reputation for pipeline.
This strategy helps to ensure that each business can remain product development and quality.
at the forefront of technological advances within dened market sectors and be able to meet specic customer demands.
Some examples of the Crosby types of new products being launched within the various markets are t The reorganisation of Crosbys manufacturing footprint in order to discussed within the Divisional reviews on pages 16 to 26.
During 2012, create centres of excellence in forging and machining products.
This development costs totaling 1.2 million 2011: nil were capitalised in will also assist Crosby to grow their business in Europe, the Middle line with Group accounting policies.
t Purchase and installation of a 35,000 lb hammer which will allow Crosby to forge shackles of up to 400 tonnes, some of the largest in the world.
This new machinery will go through an in-depth testing process prior to being used in production, which is estimated to be sometime during 2014. t Completion of a modernised galvanising facility during 2012, designed to increase capacity and reduce costs.
Melrose Industries PLC 46 Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued FINANCIAL RESULTS The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to Ordinary Company and exercise their powers in accordance with the Articles, shareholders was 42.5 million 2011: 286.4 million including profit from directions given by special resolution and any relevant statutes.
Specic discontinued operations of 171.7 million.
In addition, there were gains powers relating to the issuing of shares and the ability of the Company attributable to non-controlling interests of 1.7 million 2011: 0.1 million.
to purchase its own shares are also included within the Articles and such authorities are submitted for approval by the shareholders at the The results of the Group are set out in detail in the financial statements AGM each year.
The resolutions being proposed at the AGM on 8 May on pages 71 to 75 and in the accompanying notes.
2013 include resolutions to renew these authorities.
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out in this DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND REMUNERATION report a fair review of the development and performance of the Group Information on Directors beneficial interests, including those of during the year, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a connected persons within the meaning of section 252 of the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Companies Act 2006, in the shares of Melrose is shown in the information that fulls these requirements can be found within the Chief Remuneration report on page 65.
Executives review, Divisional reviews, Finance Directors review and in this Directors report.
No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, other Details of the main key performance and risk indicators used by the than a service contract.
Group can be seen on pages 37 to 41.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company in of the Group in the year are listed in note 3 to the Melrose Industries respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce.
This indemnity is PLC UK Company accounts, on page 122. provided under the Articles and satisfies the indemnity provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
SHAREHOLDER DIVIDEND The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a final dividend The Group has taken out an insurance policy in respect of those of 5.0p 2011: 4.8p adjusted to include the effects of the Rights Issue liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
Neither the on 13 May 2013 to Ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is business on 19 April 2013.
This dividend recommendation will be put to proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company, to be held on 8 May 2013.
Subject to shareholder approval DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES being obtained at the AGM for the final dividend, this will mean a full year The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the 2012 dividend of 7.6p per share 2011: 7.4p adjusted to include the consolidated financial statements is set out on page 68. effects of the Rights Issue.
SHARE CAPITAL It is the intention of the Board to continue to pursue a progressive During the financial year ended 31 December 2012, the following dividend policy, where appropriate.
The Company offers a Dividend corporate actions took place which impacted on the number of Ordinary Reinvestment Plan which gives shareholders the opportunity to use their Shares in issue: dividend payments to purchase further Melrose Industries PLC shares.
Further details about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and its terms and t The creation of new Ordinary Shares in the capital of Melrose PLC, conditions can be found within the Investors section on the Companys following crystallisation of the 2009 Incentive Share Plan, in April website at www.
2012: t A 2 for 1 Rights Issue that concluded in August 2012, raising DIRECTORS APPOINTMENT AND POWERS approximately 1.2 billion to fund the purchase of Elster: and The Directors of the Company as at the date of this report, together with t As part of the Scheme of Arrangement, which became effective on their biographical details, are given on pages 42 and 43.
Further details 27 November 2012, the Ordinary Shares in the capital of Melrose PLC regarding the executive Directors service agreements and the nonwere cancelled and shareholders were issued with the same number executive Directors letters of appointment can be found on page 64 of of new Ordinary Shares in Melrose Industries PLC, with a nominal the Remuneration report.
value of 120 pence per share, so that Melrose PLC became a direct subsidiary of Melrose Industries PLC.
On 29 November 2012 the The Companys Articles of Association Articles give the Directors nominal value of each new Ordinary Share in Melrose Industries PLC power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of was reduced to 0.1 pence in order to create approximately the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by 1.5 billion of distributable reserves.
the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and resubmit themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment.
With effect from the 2012 AGM, the Board determined that all Directors of the Company should stand for re-election on an annual basis, in compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and this requirement is now contained in the Articles.
In holders of Ordinary Shares, but no dividend shall exceed the amount summary, the 2009 Incentive Share Plan was crystallised in April 2012 recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends and the 2009 Incentive Shares were converted into Ordinary Shares and also any xed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the following shareholder approval at a General Meeting held on 11 April Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
At the same time, the 2012 Incentive Share Plan was established shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid and options were granted over 2012 Incentive Shares.
FURTHER RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES The Board may deduct from a dividend, or other amounts payable The following summary is based on the Articles of Melrose Industries to a person in respect of their shares, amounts due from him to the PLC, which were adopted on 11 October 2012 and based on Company on account of a call or otherwise in relation to such shares.
the Articles of Association of Melrose PLC at that date, with the amendments described in the Prospectus dated 12 October 2012 LIQUIDATION published in relation to the listing of Melrose Industries PLCs Ordinary Under the current Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator Shares.
may, on obtaining any sanction required by law: VOTING t divide amongst the shareholders in kind the whole or any part of the Only Ordinary Shares of 0.1 pence have voting rights attached.
In a assets of the Company: or general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the current t vest the whole or any part of the assets in trust for the benefit of Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to shareholders as the liquidator shall determine.
any other class of shares in the Company of which there are currently none : TRANSFER OF SHARES Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his shares t on a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by in any form which the Board may approve, and the transfer shall be proxy shall have one vote: and executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
Subject to the Articles and t on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall the requirements of any relevant investment exchange, the Board have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer of a share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien.
The If any call or other sum payable by a holder of Ordinary Shares remains Board may also decline to register a transfer unless the transfer is: i in unpaid, they shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class respect of only one class of shares: ii in favour of not more than four meeting in respect of any shares held by them.
Currently, all issued joint transferees or renouncees: iii duly stamped if required : and iv Ordinary Shares are fully paid.
delivered for registration to the registered ofce, or such other place as the Board may decide, accompanied by the certicate for the shares to DEADLINES FOR VOTING RIGHTS which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the require to prove the title of the transferor.
resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on 8 May 2013 are set out in the Notice of AGM, on pages 125 to 127.
Melrose Industries PLC 48 Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 6 March 2013, the Company has been advised of the following substantial interests in the Ordinary Share capital of Melrose Industries PLC: Shareholder Holding % BlackRock Inc. 213,641,488 16.86 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 88,024,456 6.94 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 72,291,307 5.70 Aviva Investors 56,815,045 4.48 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 69,654,645 5.49 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 57,203,034 4.51 Artemis Investment Management 51,544,983 4.06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In the event of a takeover of the Company, options over the 2012 The Corporate Governance report is included as a separate report on Incentive Shares would be exercised and any 2012 Incentive Shares pages 56 to 61. resulting from such exercise, or that have previously been issued, would convert into Ordinary Shares of 0.1 pence or an entitlement to a RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES dividend paid in cash, the rate of conversion being based upon the offer The Group operates a variety of risk management processes designed price of the Companys Ordinary Shares as calculated on the date of the to take into account the identication, management and mitigation of change of control of the Company.
If part or the entire offer price is not in business risk, where both short term and long term considerations cash, the Remuneration Committee will determine the value of the nonare monitored.
A review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk cash element, having been advised by an investment bank of repute that management and internal control systems is carried out on a regular such valuation is fair and reasonable.
basis and at least annually, in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A summary of the material strategic, PRODUCT AND EMPLOYERS LIABILITY CLAIMS operational, compliance, ethical and financial risks and uncertainties that The Group seeks to assess its ongoing risks in relation to potential could impact on the Groups performance is shown on pages 37 to 39. future liabilities arising from insurance claims by using external actuarial Internal control and risk management is also discussed further within projections to measure material exposures.
Historic claims experience the Finance Directors review on pages 27 to 36 and the Corporate data is used to analyse risks in relation to less significant exposures.
Governance report on pages 56 to 61.
Further accounting judgements Actuarial projections and claims history experience are regularly analysed and key sources of estimation uncertainty are included in note 3 to the by management and key issues, trends and statistics are also discussed consolidated financial statements.
Additionally, key commercial and at Board level.
economic risks are covered in the Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 26.
Risks within the Group relate to potential future liabilities arising from product, industrial disease including asbestos, employers liability and SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL workers compensation claims.
Provisions in relation to such risks are With the exception of the Groups banking facilities, the 2012 Incentive recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet, where appropriate.
Note 30 to Share Plan including the options over 2012 Incentive Shares and the the consolidated financial statements provides further information with divisional management long term incentive plans, there are no other regard to contingent product liabilities.
agreements that would have a significant effect upon a change of control of Melrose Industries PLC on 6 March 2013.
A number of businesses have various ISO certications, which include ISO 9001 and ISO 16949 for their quality management systems.
This As part of the process to acquire Elster, the Group agreed a new helps to ensure their products and processes are of a recognised quality, 1.5 billion five year multi-currency, committed, bank facility, which has reducing the risk of product claims.
Some businesses within the Group substantially the same change of control provisions as the previous are also certied to international health and safety standards via ISO 600 million facility that it replaced.
These provisions state that in the 18001, which helps to further ensure that risks in relation to employers event of a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, liability claims are kept to a minimum.
the Company and lenders under this facility are obliged to enter into negotiations to determine whether and, if so, how to continue with the Within many of the Groups businesses the design and production of facility.
There is no obligation for the lenders to continue to make the their products also conform with international and industry specic facility available for more than 30 days beyond any change of control.
For example, Crosby and Bridon products are certied Failure to reach agreement with parties on revised terms could require to specication standards used within the Petroleum, Petrochemical and an acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Natural Gas industries, which amongst other things involves the audit of processes, procedures and product standards by third parties.
net Stock code: MRO 49 PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT, CONSULTATION AND Historically, the Company has not utilised standard protocols in respect DEVELOPMENT of payments to suppliers, given the international nature of the Groups The Group attaches great importance to good labour relations, operations.
The Company intends to maintain this approach for the employee involvement and employee development.
The nature of the financial year ending 31 December 2013.
It is the responsibility of Groups activities places the responsibility for employment practices with each business to agree the exact terms and conditions of transactions local management, in a manner appropriate to each business.
with their suppliers, including as to the settlement of payments, and these arrangements are adhered to, provided that suppliers meet their A culture of clear communication and employee consultation is inherent contractual commitments.
The Company, as a holding company, did not in the Groups businesses.
Employee brieng sessions are held on a have any amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2012. regular basis to communicate strategy, key changes, financial results, achievements and other important issues.
Regular appraisals, employee INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY surveys, notice boards, intranet sites, team meetings, suggestion boxes The Company and each of its businesses recognise the value and and newsletters are also used to communicate with employees.
importance of its intellectual property IP and, where appropriate, will seek to protect and enforce its rights over IP.
Due to the varying types of Extensive training is available to all staff and is actively encouraged IP rights held or licensed within the Group, each business is responsible to ensure a high standard of skill is maintained across the Group.
for the management and enforcement of these on a decentralised basis Cross-training programmes are also in place at a number of the through the use of external advisers and the support of the Company.
The importance of training extends beyond onthe-job training and also focuses on enhancing personal development.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES Apprenticeship programmes are in place at the majority of sites, which The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment of help to assist with succession planning in locations where there is an all its employees in accordance with legislation applicable to the ageing workforce.
Employees are encouraged to think in an innovative territories within which it operates.
Due to the diverse nature of the manner across the Group.
Group, businesses are required to manage their employment matters on a decentralised basis: therefore, responsibility for the adoption of HUMAN RESOURCE INITIATIVES employment policies and practices sits at a local business unit level.
During 2012, many of the Groups businesses implemented a range of This position ensures that policies and procedures meet both site and employee-related initiatives.
Some of these are listed below: local regulatory requirements, taking into account the size and nature of the businesses.
t Within Bridon, several key HR improvement areas had been identied via an employee opinion survey which was carried out in 2011.
As part of this decentralised approach, each business is responsible for During 2012, focus was placed on the areas identied within this setting and measuring its own KPIs and, as such, these vary throughout survey, which had been conducted in partnership with the Corporate the Group.
However, such measurements will generally include Leadership Council.
The results varied by country and so during the absenteeism, punctuality, headcount and employee relations issues.
course of 2012 a variety of different initiatives have been ongoing Any concerns or adverse trends are responded to in a timely manner.
in the countries where Bridon has operations.
For example, within Further, as a Group-wide policy and so far as particular disabilities Bridon America focus has been placed on internal communication permit, the Company and each of its businesses will give employees and improving leadership skills.
Within Bridon UK the focus has also disabled during their period of employment continued employment in been on internal communication initiatives and employee recognition.
the same job or, if this is not practicable, a suitable alternative job.
A second survey has been planned for 2013 in order to check progress and maintain visibility of this initiative within their worldwide Equal opportunities for appropriate training, career development operations.
and promotion are also available to all employees within the Group regardless of any physical disability, gender, religion, race, nationality, t Employee road shows have also been used within Bridon during sexual orientation or age.
2012 to help set a strong culture of values, which are also used as a foundation during recruitment, performance management and Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully leadership development.
and fairly considered by the Group, taking into account job specic requirements and applicant aptitude.
It is the policy of the Group that in t Bridon continues to place importance on its two year apprenticeship recruitment, training, career development and promotion, the treatment programme, which is designed to develop the rope makers, engineers of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of and designers of the future.
The practice of providing educational other employees.
support enables employees at all levels to acquire enhanced skills, industry knowledge and recognised qualications, which the business The Group regards employee training and advancement as an essential will be able to benefit from in years to come.
Disputes and days lost through strike action are negligible.
Melrose Industries PLC 50 Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued t Towards the end of 2012, the Brush Turbogenerators business Bridon in the UK gained its Engineering Technical Development Scheme accreditation from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
By recognising the quality of mechanical courses offered by the Brush academy, the newly accredited training scheme will allow both students and apprentices to become registered engineering technicians upon successful completion.
t Marelli introduced several strategic HR initiatives in 2012, designed to improve exibility within its business and enable quicker responses to market changes.
As part of this approach, an organisational development project has been implemented based on a lean approach and this has led to a value stream analysis.
A new organisational structure is also being evolved, together with additional staff training and employee competence mapping.
t Within parts of the Elster businesses an initiative has been established to invite both new employees and those who have particular health concerns to attend wellness sessions and health checks.
Erica Gateley, pictured above, works as a Metallurgist at Bridons facility in Doncaster, UK.
She has recently been awarded with the honour of Technician of the Year for 2012 A significant number of employees are members of unions and some by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining.
Bridon businesses operate works councils, both of which are used for is currently sponsoring Erica to study for her engineering consultation and dissemination of information, as appropriate.
degree, which she is due to complete next year.
The executive Directors have monthly meetings with divisional senior management and visit the sites on an ad hoc basis to communicate with the wider Group.
Financial results of the Company for the half More information about Bridon is available at year and full year are discussed with the Groups senior management www.
com team: Group developments are communicated to the businesses as appropriate.
Employee involvement in and commitment to the Groups profitability is encouraged through appropriate bonus plans.
t During 2012, the Brush Turbogenerators business in the Czech Republic launched the first phase of their advanced employee PENSIONS evaluation programme.
This is designed to identify both positive Companies within the Group operate various dened benefit and aspects and areas for improvement within the middle management dened contribution pension plans around the world, which it regularly structure of the business.
Plans are being nalised to follow this reviews to reduce volatility where possible.
The long term strategy for initiative up with a Talent Academy in 2013, which will provide the UK pension plans is to concentrate on the cash ows required to managers with practical knowledge, tailored training programmes and fund the liabilities as they fall due whether that is within the timescales of coaching all designed to further enhance performance and drive a Melrose ownership, or beyond.
The Board recognise that as businesses culture of continuous improvement.
are bought and sold eventually pension plan liabilities need to exit the Group.
However, this can be done at a time which is commercially sensible.
The table below shows the dened benefit plans that are material to the Group.
Dened benets pension plans material to the Group: As at 31 December 2012 Number of Name of Plan Status Assets m Liabilities m members Closed to new members in October 2001.
Closed to future service 630.2 730.2 10,415 FKI UK Pension Plan accrual on 28 February 2011.
Closed to future service accrual in 170.8 179.0 3,388 Plan 2005.
Closed to future service 198.3 228.4 8,009 FKI US Pension Plan accrual in 2009.
2011: 195.2 2011: 228.7 2011: 8,194 1 This gure includes 276 members with benets partially insured with Prudential which have now been identied.
This explains why the number of members has increased during the year.
net Stock code: MRO 51 The FKI UK Pension Plan FKI UK Plan is a UK dened benefit pension HEALTH AND SAFETY plan with FKI Limited as its principal employer.
The primary liability for The Directors of the Company are committed to minimising the health funding rests with the participating employers, which currently pay 20.0 and safety risks that each of the Groups employees are exposed to million annually into the FKI UK Plan increased from 18.5 million on 1 by promoting the effective use and management of business specic December 2012.
The contribution levels were last formally assessed policies and procedures.
The Companys contribution level at that time 18.5 million per annum was expected to remove the funding The Group has a policy to ensure that the Directors are made aware deficit by 31 December 2022.
A formal actuarial valuation of the FKI UK of any serious health and safety incidents, wherever they occur in the Plan, which will record the funding position as at 31 December 2011, world, without delay to ensure that suitable investigations and corrective is in its final stages and this has recently led to the increase in annual action can be organised.
Current events and issues relating to health contributions to 20.0 million.
The FKI UK Plan closed to the accrual of and safety matters are also discussed within the Group at every future benets for existing members on 28 February 2011 and this is quarterly Board meeting of the Company.
expected to lead to the funding deficit being removed earlier than would otherwise have been the case.
Each of the Groups businesses use dened health and safety KPIs, which are specic to the exact nature of their business and allow for The McKechnie UK Pension Plan McKechnie UK Plan is a UK focus, analysis and improvement at local business levels, often on a dened benefit pension plan.
The principal employer was changed location by location basis.
Several of the Groups businesses already from McKechnie Limited to McKechnie Employee Services Limited, hold ISO 18001 certication, the internationally recognised assessment following the sale of the MPC business in June 2012.
The primary standard for occupational health and safety management systems.
This liability for funding now rests with the principal employer.
The Company certication includes several of the major manufacturing locations within and Trustees reviewed the funding of the McKechnie UK Plan as part of the Group, with other sites also currently going through the accreditation the actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2008 and it was agreed that process.
the participating employers would contribute 4.6 million annually into the McKechnie UK Plan.
Melrose PLC guaranteed the funding of the To supplement the business specic KPIs, Group-wide health and safety McKechnie UK Plan on an ongoing basis.
A formal actuarial valuation of KPIs are in use.
This allows the Directors to review Group statistics on the McKechnie UK Plan is currently in its latter stages of being completed, a regular and consistent basis: it also ensures they have greater visibility which will record the funding position as at 31 December 2011. of the key Group health and safety trends in order to help them to make decisions on where future focus should be placed.
The FKI US Pension Plan is a dened benefit pension plan covering several of FKIs US businesses.
The primary liability for funding the FKI The Group health and safety KPIs that are actively being used for the US Pension Plan rests with the participating employers.
The Company businesses of Lifting, Energy and Other Industrial divisions are: Major and Trustees of the plan reviewed the funding requirements of the FKI Accident Frequency Rate dened as an accident that resulted in an US Pension Plan, based on its 1 January 2012 actuarial valuation, employee having more than three days off work due to a work-related and no contributions will need to be made during 2013.
Unlike the UK injury, per 200,000 working hours, Accident Frequency Rate dened pension plans, deferred member liabilities do not increase by ination as an accident that resulted in an employee having at least one day each year.
off work due to a work-related injury, per 200,000 working hours and Accident Severity Rate which calculates the average number of lost Elster provides retirement benets for most of its employees, either working days per accident.
Such statistics are collected quarterly on a directly or by contributions to its pension funds managed by third site-by-site basis.
Aggregating the three aforementioned divisions, two parties.
Most Elster plans are unfunded and are not of a significant size of these KPIs had improved during 2012, when compared to 2011, with or material nature, with the largest being an unfunded German dened the third KPI remaining constant.
Elster uses different health and safety benefit plan.
Further reference is made to the pension plans acquired KPIs: during 2013 the Elster businesses will start to report under the with the Elster business on page 33 of the Finance Directors review.
Groups existing health and safety KPI structure.
Each business is responsible for setting its own detailed arrangements concerning health and safety policies and procedures, in accordance with local health and safety legislation.
As a general rule, businesses strive to achieve best practice, in terms of what is suitable and practical for the size and nature of their operations.
Melrose Industries PLC 52 Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued Divisional managers within each business unit have responsibilities t Brush have focused their attention on improving the way in to ensure that health and safety remains a key focus and to ensure which data is stored around the use of chemicals on-site, via the that active procedures and monitoring systems are in place to provide introduction of ichemistry software.
This allows an electronic log to be substance to written policies.
Detailed health and safety plans are set created for all chemicals on-site.
Suitable risk assessments can then by businesses each year to determine annual targets and improvement be carried out, which are accessible by all shop oor employees to initiatives.
The new system also helps to ensure compliance with COSHH legislation, as well as helping to meet ISO 9001, 14001 All businesses have Health and Safety Committees H&S Committees : and 18001 standards.
such committees meet on a regular basis and are made up of representatives from both management and shop oor level personnel.
t During 2013, Brush are making plans to introduce a new behavioral Each of the H&S Committees has wide-ranging responsibilities which safety programme, designed to focus on promoting a positive health vary from business to business and include the review of reported and safety culture and achieve a continued reduction in workplace incidents and the monitoring of incident trends.
These H&S Committees accidents and occupational health illnesses.
are also responsible for ensuring that corrective measures are implemented when accidents occur and that all incidents, whether or THE ENVIRONMENT not they are deemed reportable under local legislation, are given due The Companys main impact on the environment is through its energy attention.
use and associated carbon dioxide CO emissions and waste.
The 2 Directors fully understand the importance of the Groups environmental One of the key responsibilities for these H&S Committees is to carry responsibilities.
Each of the Companys businesses are committed to out regular tours of the premises in which they work, in order to ensuring that their operations have a minimum adverse effect on the ensure compliance with local policies and procedures.
These tours environment and that ongoing reductions in both energy usage and CO 2 also identify potential hazards, for which counter-measures can be emissions are achieved, wherever practicable.
identied to prevent accidents from happening.
Each H&S Committee recommendation is followed up at the next committee meeting to Many of the Groups businesses are developing environmental policies ensure that issues are resolved.
Additionally, operations are audited and procedures in line with best practice guidelines, via ongoing by the H&S Committees at least annually and reports of performance improvements to local processes to reduce the impact of their activities.
and recommended improvements are prepared and circulated to the A number of the businesses have achieved, or are currently in the divisional senior management teams.
Divisional managers are provided process of achieving, the high standards required to obtain ISO 14001 with detailed health and safety reports on a frequent basis to ensure Environmental Management Systems certication.
that such matters are given high visibility and that improvements are authorised and implemented quickly.
Although there are no standardised environmental KPIs currently used within the Group, each business understands the importance HEALTH AND SAFETY INITIATIVES of monitoring the impact of its operations on the environment.
A During 2012, many of the Groups businesses implemented a range of range of KPIs are used as environmental measures, including energy initiatives aimed at improving health and safety performance, as part of consumption, CO emissions, water consumption, water contamination, 2 the Groups goal of achieving zero preventable accidents.
Some of these waste disposal, solid and liquid waste generation, recycling and volatile are listed below: organic compound emissions.
Environmental performance is measured via the use of KPIs in order that each of the businesses can plan for t Within several of the US-based businesses there has been an initiative ongoing reductions.
to prevent back injuries during the course of 2012.
This includes the introduction of stretching activities in both the pre-shift period and The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the potential during breaks, together with the provision of suitable lifting equipment implications of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Reports and oor mats in certain production areas designed to ease back Regulations 2013, which at the time of writing this report have not been strain.
Training sessions on correct lifting techniques have also been nalised.
The Company will be working to develop appropriate internal provided to certain employees.
Group systems to ensure that over a period of time Group statistics can be collected and reported on greenhouse gas usage and future target t At Bridon, health and safety bulletins are now issued for all significant reductions.
events to prevent reoccurrences in other parts of the business.
Monthly global management health and safety reviews also enable During the year, the Company continued to comply with the ongoing Bridons worldwide facilities to jointly review performance and drive annual reporting requirements of the UKs Carbon Reduction corrective learning.
This also allows for best practice ideas to spread Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme.
Each of the Groups businesses and this contributed to a significant reduction in worldwide lost time will also continue to actively look for ways to further reduce energy injuries during 2012. consumption wherever possible.
t Marelli continued with the roll-out of their risk perception training programme in 2012.
This has been designed to develop the capabilities of all employees to identify dangers, evaluate risks and encourage safe working processes during all stages of the production process.
net Stock code: MRO 53 ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES t At the Elster facility in Stafford, UK, which serves both the Electricity In terms of environmental initiatives that have either been completed in and Gas divisions they decided to introduce the CEMARS scheme 2012, or are ongoing for 2013, there are a variety of examples from the for carbon measuring and reduction towards the end of last year.
Groups businesses and some of these include: CEMARS is the worlds first internationally accredited greenhouse gas certication scheme to ISO 14065.
They are currently working with an t Various initiatives have taken place at Crosby following a review of all external consultant to acquire accreditation, which will include a five its facilities to identify energy consumption reduction opportunities.
These include the installation of a new air handling compressor system at the Brampton location in Canada, which is substantially ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES more efficient than the previous equipment.
At the Tulsa facility in The Directors seek to ensure that all environmental risks are closely the US, ow and heat measurement systems were installed during managed by external environmental specialists in conjunction with the year to reduce the amount of gas required for heating sheaves internal management.
The environmental laws of certain jurisdictions used within the forging process.
Work started in 2012 at the Texas impose obligations to remediate contaminated sites in relation to sites operation to upgrade the gas furnace heating systems to induction both currently and previously owned by the Group.
heaters, which are estimated to be considerably more efficient and will signicantly reduce the local carbon footprint at this site.
The Company Secretary is made aware of all major environmental liabilities that may occur within any of the Groups businesses.
The t Truth is in the process of introducing a recycled water programme at Board are also regularly updated on such matters.
All costs incurred by its US facility whereby water used for cooling within its die-casting the Group with regard to environmental liabilities are monitored, process is piped into holding tanks.
This recycled water is then used with provisions being made as appropriate.
as part of the e-coat painting system and barrel plating process.
This is helping to signicantly reduce water consumption within this CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY process.
Due to the heavy industrial nature of some of the Groups activities, the Directors recognise that its operations will potentially impact on a wide variety of stakeholders in terms of social, environmental and t Marelli has reduced the amount of unrecyclable waste created from ethical matters, including employees, customers, suppliers and local its production processes at its Italian facility in Arzignano.
been achieved via an improved waste separation process.
Other improvements at this facility include the upgrade of lighting, which has Many of the Groups businesses have social and ethical policies, with not only helped to reduce electricity consumption but also improved responsibility for communication and implementation resting with the overall level of lighting for employees working in these areas.
Such policies apply and extend to local laws and standards and as a minimum include equal opportunities t Within each of the three Elster businesses a focus has been placed and anti-discrimination policies.
on the development of Smart metering products.
This provides both domestic and commercial energy consumers with the tools to The majority of the businesses provided community support during understand and reduce their energy usage going forward.
Elster has the year with efforts ranging from charitable donations to voluntary also played a vital role in delivering energy industry improvements by assistance and fund raising.
supporting the UKs Department of Energy and Climate Change to develop Smart meter standards.
Elster was also a founding member The Company is committed to continuing to invest in its businesses of the Smart Specication Working Group, which involves key during its ownership, thus enhancing their reputation within the markets industry participants working together to create interchangeable and and communities in which they operate.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS t Elsters volumetric polymer water meters have a carbon footprint The Group paid 59,000 2011: 50,000 to charities during the year.
of approximately one-third of their old brass counter-parts and are There were no political donations made during the year 2011: nil.
purchased by Anglian Water for all of their new build, replacement and refurbishment projects.
In March 2012, Elster announced that it had shipped its one millionth polymer bodied water meter for the European utility market to Anglian Water.
Working closely with Elster has enabled Anglian Water to lower its carbon footprint throughout the supply chain.
Melrose Industries PLC 54 Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued AUDITOR AGM So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of The AGM of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, which the auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am which they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware on 8 May 2013. of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 Articles, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at this years of the Companies Act 2006.
AGM, as per resolutions 4 to 11 of the Notice of Meeting shown on pages 125 to 127.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditor.
Accordingly, resolutions will be proposed at the AGM of the Resolutions dealing with the following special business will be proposed Company to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company and to at the AGM: authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Resolution 14 will seek shareholder approval to renew the Directors GOING CONCERN authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to securities into shares pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 2006 the Section 551 authority.
The authority contained in paragraph the Divisional reviews on pages 16 to 26.
The financial position of the A of the resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal value Group, its cash ows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and various representing 422,209, being approximately one-third of the Companys other financial and commercial risks are described in the Finance issued Ordinary Share capital, as at 6 March 2013.
Directors review on pages 27 to 36.
In addition, notes 19 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements include the Groups policies In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, and processes for managing its capital, exposures to liquidity risk and paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority to financial risk management objectives, as well as details of its financial allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities instruments and hedging strategies.
Credit risk exposure is discussed in into shares in connection with a rights issue up to an aggregate notes 16 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
nominal value of 844,418, representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 6 March 2013, as The Group prepares regular business forecasts and monitors projected reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph facility headroom and compliance with its banking covenants, which A of this resolution.
are reviewed by the Board.
Forecasts are then adjusted for possible sensitivities which address the principal risks to which the Group is The Company does not hold any treasury shares.
exposed, such as uctuations in exchange rates and best estimates of the possible impact of the macroeconomic environment on the Groups Resolution 15 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the Board underlying trading results.
Consideration is then given to the potential to allot equity securities of the Company or sell any shares which the actions available to management to mitigate the impact of one or more Company may elect to hold in treasury for cash pursuant to section of the sensitivities.
570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Section 570 authority without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing Taking all this into consideration, the Group should be able to operate shareholdings.
within the level of its current banking facilities and remain covenant compliant for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least The authority is limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre- 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that the Directors consider appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas requirements, and After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable otherwise up to a maximum nominal value of 63,331, representing expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources approximately 5 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
capital as at 6 March 2013, which is in accordance with the relevant Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing guidelines for the Company.
the Annual Report and financial statements.
net Stock code: MRO 55 If approved, the Section 551 authority and the Section 570 authority will The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if earlier, at the close of is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In accordance business on 30 June 2014.
The Directors have no present intention of with the Companies Act 2006, the Company must make a means of exercising the Section 551 authority or the Section 570 authority.
electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice.
Resolution 16 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the Company to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 and 701 RECOMMENDATIONS of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority is limited to an aggregate The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed at the maximum number of 126,662,703 Ordinary Shares, representing 10 AGM is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 6 March whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously recommend that ordinary 2013.
This power will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions proposed, as they earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2014.
The maximum price intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
which may be paid for an Ordinary Share will be an amount which is not more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotation DISCLOSURES IN THE DIRECTORS REPORT for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange plcs The Corporate Governance report, Divisional reviews and Finance Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the Directors review form part of the Directors report.
day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of the powers conferred by this Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: resolution and will only exercise their authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
Resolution 17 will seek shareholder approval to allow the Company to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
In accordance with the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the notice period required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice Joff Crawford period subject to a minimum period of 14 clear days.
AGMs will Company Secretary continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
