Melrose Industries PLC 4 Annual Report 2012 The Melrose strategy The Melrose strategy is to acquire good manufacturing businesses underperforming their potential, improve them by a mixture of investment, operational improvements and changed management focus, then commercially choose the right time to sell, often within a three to five year time frame but this is flexible.
The value from significant disposals is then returned to shareholders.
Melrose recently entered the next phase of its growth strategy via the acquisition of Elster for an enterprise value of 1.8 billion.
Commercially choose the right time to sell, often between three to five years but exible Set strategy and targets SELL Drive operational improvements Melrose management are substantial equity Good investors Return value to manufacturing IMPROVE shareholders businesses from significant underperforming disposals their potential Invest in the businesses capex in excess of BUY depreciation Focus on Change operating management cash generation focus Use public incentivise well market leverage Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 5 Strategy in action Buy t In August 2012 Melrose acquired Elster Group S. E. representing the largest acquisition in Melroses history to date.
Elster is a world leader in the provision of gas control equipment and related products, gas, electricity and water meters, networking and software solutions.
t The Elster division is split into three distinct businesses of Gas, Electricity and Water.
They have manufacturing facilities throughout the world and employ nearly 7,000 people in more than 30 countries.
A map showing Elsters key worldwide manufacturing locations can be seen on page 11.
Since acquistion several restructuring projects have already been completed within the Elster businesses, with others currently underway.
Pictured: Manufacture of high accuracy plastic injection moulded measuring chambers take place at the Elster site in Luton, UK, which are used for both Smart and mechanical residential water meters.
Improve t Melrose acquired FKI plc in July 2008, for an enterprise value of approximately 1 billion, which included Bridon, Brush, Crosby, Marelli, Truth and Harris.
FKI was a major international diversied engineering group but operating under certain financial constraints.
t Since the acquisition, Melrose has identied a number of opportunities to improve these businesses, principally through an increased focus on improved profitability and cash generation.
t The Group will continue with its investment strategy in these businesses, as well as consider acquisitions and organic growth into new markets, where appropriate.
Pictured: New rope making machinery at Bridons 20 million facility at Neptune Energy Park, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, designed to feed wire rope cores into the stranding machine.
The deep-water portside location of this new site, which opened in November 2012, will allow Bridon to use innovative loading solutions to reduce delivery timescales and order lead times for customers.
Sell t The sale of Dynacast and McKechnie has resulted in our initial equity investment from shareholders of 244 million increasing to cash for shareholders of nearly 800 million and thus has been highly successful.
t The most recent disposals have included McKechnie Plastic Components, sold for 30.7 million in June 2012, and the Dynacast business in July 2011 for an enterprise value of 377 million.
Consistent with the Melrose strategy, the disposal of the Dynacast business provided a return of capital to shareholders of approximately 373 million in August 2011. t Prior to this the McKechnie Aerospace business was sold for 428 million in May 2007, two years after the initial acquisition.
This resulted in acquisition debt being repaid and a return of capital to shareholders of 220 million.
Pictured: Production of automotive components at McKechnie Plastic Components.
