Melrose Industries PLC 8 Annual Report 2012 Group overview Energy World number one independent 4 Revenue by 3 supplier of turbogenerators geographical destination and leading supplier of other Year ended 31 December 2012 electricity generating machinery, 486.8m 1 switchgear, transformers and power 1 Europe 56% 2 2 North America 26% 3 Asia 12% infrastucture equipment.
Strong 4 RoW 6% aftermarket service capabilities.
Key Energy key sites Key strengths Major customers t Expertise to design and manufacture an extensive range of high quality, t Gas and steam turbine manufacturers and packagers.
multi-pole, low, medium and high voltage generators and electric motors.
t Comprehensive and integrated aftermarket support tailored to meet t UK distribution network operators.
customers needs throughout operating life.
t Switchgear and transformer products in service with all UK energy supply authorities.
t Hydropower generators to produce environmentally green energy.
t Generators and electric motors for ship power.
t Strategically located around the world.
Products t Power generation equipment with 10 kW to 250 MW electric generators.
t Synchronous motors, induction motors, submersible and traction motors.
t Power management and excitation systems.
t Medium voltage AC and DC switchgear.
To see more information on the Energy division go to t Power and system transformers.
pages 16 to 18, or visit our website at www.
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 9 Lifting Leading supplier worldwide of 4 Revenue by 1 lifting fittings, blocks and custom geographical destination engineered material handling 3 Year ended 31 December 2012 products and top three supplier 524.4m 1 Europe 22% worldwide for wire and wire rope.
2 North America 50% 3 Asia 17% 4 RoW 11% 2 Key Lifting key sites Key strengths Major customers t Comprehensive and competitive range of solutions in steel wire, t Global crane OEMs and mining OEMs.
wire and bre rope and strand.
t Technical expertise to support customers demanding applications, t Global oil eld exploration and drilling contractors.
t Worlds leading supplier of accessories used in lifting and material t Lifting products distributors.
t Strategically located around the world with state-of-the-art facilities.
Products t Wire rope, bre rope and wire.
t Hooks, shackles, blocks, sheaves, clamps and links.
To see more information on the Liting division go to t Industrial carts and trailers.
pages 19 to 21, or visit our website at www.
html Melrose Industries PLC 10 Annual Report 2012 Group overview continued Other Industrial 34 1 Market leading manufacturers Revenue by across the housing, construction, geographical destination and scrap processing sectors.
Year ended 31 December 2012 0,000.0m 129.1m 1 Europe 6% 2 North America 92% 3 Asia 1% 4 RoW 1% 2 Key Other Industrial key sites Key strengths Major customers t Market leading design, development and engineering capabilities.
t Leading innovative product development and technology choice for t Waste and scrap processors.
t Trusted long standing quality brand names.
t In-depth aftermarket service supply capabilities.
Products t Window and door hardware.
t Balers, shears, waste compactors and auto shredders.
To see more information on the Other Industrial division go to pages 22 and 23, or visit our website at www.
html Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 11 Elster A world leading engineering 4 Revenue by business and one of the 3 geographical destination worlds largest providers of gas Four months ended 31 December 2012 1 control equipment and related 411.1m communications, gas, electricity 1 Europe 47% 2 North America 35% 3 Asia 8% and water meters, networking and 2 4 RoW 10% software solutions.
Elster electricity metering sites Key Elster key sites Key strengths Products t Strong long-term customer relationships and strategic partnerships.
t Unrivalled gas regulating and metering for upstream, midstream and distribution markets.
t Trusted brand name based on high accuracy, innovation and reliabilty of meters.
t Best in class gas adaptive solutions for the leading boiler manufacturers.
t Market leading position in Gas, Electricity and Water metering and measurement products.
t Broad range of gas and water mechanical meters pre-equipped for Smart metering.
t Number one solution provider in the eld of thermo process applications.
t Advanced electronic meters for both residential and commercial t At the forefront of developing the next generation of Smart metering customers.
t World leader in polymer and high accuracy metering technology.
t End-to-end Smart Grid solution portfolio, from the meter all the way t Strategically located around the world.
through to meter data management, data analytics software and standalone components.
Major customers t Customers in all segments along the gas stream.
t Major furnace and boiler OEMs, distributors and re-sellers.
To see more information on the Elster division go to t Global utilty service companies.
pages 24 to 26, or visit our website at www.
