DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the Financial Statements and !UDITOR S 2EPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED $ECEMBER Principal activity 4HE 'ROUP IS ONE OF THE WORLD S LEADING SPECIALIST RECRUITMENT CONSULTANCIES 4HE 'ROUP S TRADING RESULTS ARE set out in the financial statements on pages 69 to 112. Business review 4HE #OMPANY IS REQUIRED BY THE #OMPANIES !CT TO INCLUDE a business review in their report.
The information that FULlLS THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUSINESS REVIEW CAN BE found on pages 12 to 29 which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Corporate governance The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance, details of which are provided in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 53 and the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 67.
34 - Stephen Puckett retired on 18 May 2012 SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS - Hubert Reid retired on 18 May 2012 There are certain agreements to which the Company is - Reg Sindall retired on 22 August 2012 party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of On 31 December 2011 Sir Adrian Montague retired from the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: the position of Chairman and from the Board.
On the same day Robin Buchanan was appointed as Chairman.
s AN INVOICE DISCOUNTING FACILITY THAT TERMINATES ON A change of control, with prepaid amounts becoming In January 2012, Andrew Bracey agreed to join the Board as payable: and Chief Financial officer and was appointed on 23 April 2012.
Andrew joined PageGroup from Ocado Group plc where he s PROVISIONS OF THE #OMPANY S SHARE SCHEMES AND PLANS was Chief Financial officer and Executive Director.
may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Hubert Reid retired from the Board at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, with Ruby McGregorSmith taking over the role of Senior Independent Director.
DIRECTORS AND INTERESTS Reg Sindall left the Board on 22 August 2012, with David The following were Directors during the year and held Lowden replacing him as Chairman of the Remuneration ofce throughout the year other than as shown below.
David was also appointed as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit and Nomination Non-Executive Directors Committees.
Senior Independent Director Simon Boddie was appointed as a Non-Executive Director - Robin Buchanan Chairman and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 24 September 2012 and on 28 February - Steve Ingham Chief Executive 2012, Charles-Henri Dumon, Managing Director - Simon Boddie appointed 24 September 2012 Continental Europe and The Americas, left the Board.
- Andrew Bracey Chief Financial officer David Lowden and Simon Boddie will appointed 23 April 2012 In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance offer themselves for election and all the Code, David Lowden and Simon Boddie will offer - Charles-Henri Dumon other Directors will offer themselves for themselves for election and all the other Directors will offer left the board on 28 February 2012 re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
- David Lowden appointed 22 August 2012 Biographical details for all the Directors are shown on - Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE pages 30 and 31.
- Dr Tim Miller 35 The beneficial interests of Directors in ofce at 31 December CREDITOR DAYS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS 2012 in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2012 and at 5 March 2013 are set out in the Remuneration Report The Company acts as a holding company for the Group.
As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notied on pages 54 to 67.
Both of the Executive Directors are Creditor days for the Company were nil 2011: nil as in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and deemed to have an interest in the ordinary shares held in the Company does not undertake any transactions with Transparency Rules DTR5 of the following voting rights the Employee benefit Trust.
The Company has maintained suppliers.
The Groups creditor days at the year end were by shareholders of the Company as shown below.
throughout the year directors and ofcers liability insurance 31 2011: 30 days.
in respect of itself and its directors.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Holder Number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital Companys Articles of Association.
Fidelity FMR 34,514,751 10.85% These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity Sleep, Zakaria and Co Nomad 21,552,513 6.78% provisions as dened by Section 234 of the Companies Act Causeway Capital Management LLC 17,948,293 5.64% 2006, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
Capital Group of Companies 16,719,500 5.26% Franklin Resources Inc 16,274,200 5.12% Artisan 15,483,502 4.87% RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Lone Pine Capital 15,425,920 4.85% The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 36.2m Baillie Gifford & Co 14,227,203 4.47% 2011: 56.9m.
Standard Life Investments Vidacos 12,985,079 4.08% A final dividend for 2011 of 6.75 pence per ordinary share Kames Capital 12,092,178 3.80% was paid on 6 June 2012.
An interim dividend for 2012 of Natixis 9,827,350 3.09% 3.25 pence per ordinary share was paid on 5 October 2012.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 6.75 pence per The following DTR5 notications were received after 31 December 2012. ordinary share on 21 June 2013 to shareholders on the register on 24 May 2013 which, if approved at the Annual Holder Number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital General Meeting, will result in a total dividend for the year Artisan 21,133,914 6.64% of 10.0 pence per ordinary share 2011: 10.0 pence.
Franklin Resources Inc 15,308,070 4.81% Causeway Capital Management LLC 15,218,870 4.79% Capital Group of Companies 15,177,493 4.77% Lone Pine Capital 15,173,738 4.77% 36 consultants going into schools and giving CV and interview Our clients SHARE CAPITAL advice, as well as volunteers helping out on community or We have always treated our clients as our partners and environmental projects in places such as hospitals, care therefore have a responsibility to represent them in the best The authorised and issued share capital of the Company homes, social centres and wildlife sanctuaries.
We ensure diversity in our candidate shortlists are shown in Note 18 to the financial statements.
by conducting searches which reach minority groups, so that we can present the widest possible pool of talent.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 18 May 2012, the Company renewed its authority to make market purchases Our candidates of its own ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% of the We are ever conscious of our diversity responsibility when issued share capital.
During the year, the Groups Employee registering candidates and sourcing them for our clients.
benefit Trust repurchased 5.0m shares to satisfy employee Candidates can be assured that they will be always be share plan awards.
The total nominal value of the shares assessed purely on their skill-set and presented to clients repurchased was 0.1m and represented 1.6% of the without bias, to ensure competition for jobs is on a level issued share capital.
The shares were purchased for a playing eld.
No shares were repurchased and cancelled during the year.
Ethical, responsible practices and total 1.1m shares were also issued to satisfy share options commitment to minimise our impact on exercised during the year.
the environment, are the key motivators behind our CR strategy.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR Ethical, responsible practices and total commitment to Our investors minimise our impact on the environment, are the key We are aware that investors insist on good CR credentials, motivators behind our CR strategy.
so we communicate regularly, keeping them well informed of our activities.
Feedback from investors has helped shape Our staff our clear business strategy and encouraged further CR We never forget that the people who work at PageGroup activities.
Listening carefully to investors helps determine will always be our most valued assets.
It is these individuals our CR approach for the benefit of the business.
who drive the company forward and take it in the right direction.
We therefore value their ideas and contribution, Our community encourage them to maximise their potential, and invest Throughout the world, we seek to work closely with heavily in learning and development.
This means every local communities, looking to give something back to member of staff has a fair opportunity to excel and develop the societies in which we operate.
To achieve this, we a full and rewarding career to become our future directors encourage our staff to be pro-active in seeking projects and managing directors.
within their own community and to make a telling contribution.
Around the world, projects include 37 The nature of our international business means inclusion in Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion OPEN PAGE - INCLUSION FOR ALL the global marketplace is essential for us to understand the Works to achieve and promote best practice in equality people we employ and services we offer.
We are determined and inclusion in the workplace.
Our inclusion promise to lead the way on inclusion within the recruitment industry Inclusion in recruitment and employment is about and we work closely with our clients to support their Clearkit recognising and appreciating that every individual is diversity strategies, from consultation through to delivery on The UKs leading auditor of disability and inclusion best different.
Its about ensuring that everyone, whether they how to source and recruit from a truly diverse talent pool.
are a candidate seeking work through PageGroup or one of our own employees, is valued and respected.
REC Diversity Pledge Regardless of individual characteristics, a persons Is an initiative run by the REC and Jobcentre Plus which suitability for recruitment, training or promotion is We are determined to lead the way on is a commitment made by recruiters to harness the talent always based on professional merit.
At PageGroup, we and potential of everyone to achieve business success.
inclusion within the recruitment industry.
are committed to promoting inclusion and continually developing our understanding and approaches to upholding an inclusive working environment.
CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS OUR PEOPLE In order to give us even greater insight into inclusion issues, Employee engagement we have joined forces with the below organisations as a With our business strategy of increased diversication corporate member.
Our senior staff are actively involved through organic international growth, our vision of Maximising with these bodies through work-streams and joint initiatives, Potential exists for employees to articulate opportunity, ensuring we are constantly learning from their experience development and the ambition of each individual.
and indeed using our own resources to share best practice and ideas.
At the heart of our company is the camaraderie of team work, so much so that it is also one of our company values.
Race for Opportunity We are a very sociable company, with regular team activities An organisation committed to improving employment in and out of the ofce including quarterly events and high opportunities for ethnic minorities across the UK.
prole exclusive trips for our High Flyers, the latter a reward for those who have performed exceptionally well.
Opportunity Now A membership organisation for employers who are We run several initiatives worldwide to monitor employee committed to creating an inclusive workplace for women.
For example, in the UK we participate in the Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to work for, in which Business Disability Forum weve been recognised for eight years.
With over 1,000 A not-for-profit member organisation that makes it easier companies entering, we were delighted to see us rank the and more rewarding to do business with, and employ, 58th best company to work for in the UK.
However it is not disabled people.
just in the UK where we are recognised as a great place 38 to work as we also place top in Actualidad Econmica using 360 degree feedback.
At PageGroup we are about fundamental to our long-term success and continuity.
Magazines 100 best companies to work for in Spain, and specialisation.
So, in order for our people to be the best at Keeping in touch: Apertura Magazines best small mid company to work for in what they do, we have established dedicated Learning & Argentina.
Development L&D teams across the Group that customise s 2EGULAR @STATE OF THE NATION BROADCASTS TO OUR STAFF our programmes to offer the right training to suit different from our CEO.
Hiring the best cultures and working environments.
"s ""I ANNUAL GLOBAL NEWSLETTERS Sourcing and retaining the highest calibre employees s 1UARTERLY TEAM BUILDING EVENTS from a wide range of backgrounds is key to our success."
Our L&D activities include: s IGH &LYERS EVENTS n PREMIUM INTERNATIONAL TRIPS FOR The service we provide to all our customers is only as good high performing consultants and managers.
as the people who represent our brand.
s Induction training: diversity, customer service, behaviour, culture, legal & policy Our strategy, to grow organically by promoting from within, s Business technology skills: preliminary and advanced presents enormous opportunities to employees who range s Maximising Sales: core skills in three day module WHISTLEBLOWING from graduates to people changing careers often from sessions the disciplines we recruit for.
Its also extremely important s Workshops: self management, advanced interviewing, The Company is committed to maintaining the highest to us to recognise that when we recruit, we are hiring our presentation skills ethical standards and the personal and professional integrity managers, directors and indeed managing directors of s Virtual ofce: advanced skills training of its employees, suppliers, contractors and consultants.
We aspire to help people to be the best they s Management development for both fee earning and PageGroup at all times conducts its business with the can, whether they are looking for a career in recruitment, support staff: Operational management, financial highest standards of integrity and honesty.
It expects all or need a hand nding the right role to suit their needs.
business management, succession planning, coaching employees to maintain the same standards in everything and development, motivation they do.
Employees are therefore encouraged to report any s One-to-one coaching and mentoring wrongdoing by PageGroup or its employees that falls short s Leadership programme for directors incorporating of these business principles.
The aim of this policy is to external 360 degree feedback ensure that as far as possible, our employees are able to tell LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT s Global director academy: sharing global knowledge us about any wrongdoing at work which they believe has OUR FUTURE s Talent management workshops for global managing occurred, or is likely to occur.
Its visible both inside and out, that at PageGroup we are passionate about our peoples development.
Through Retaining the most talented people a diverse range of education, experience and exposure With a solid strategy of organic growth, and using this opportunities, we support our employees to develop in expertise as a platform for growing into new markets, their roles and build a solid foundation for their future we have a strong commitment to internal promotion and career with us.
employee empowerment which has continually helped us PageGroup at all times conducts its retain our very best people.
business with the highest standards From the day they start, through to becoming leaders, our people continuously undertake development and of integrity and honest.
At the highest level, we want people who are immersed succession planning programmes through quarterly thoroughly in our company culture and understand the appraisals, coaching, and people management training intricacies of our business.
Retaining our best people is 39 maintains a zero-tolerance approach against corruption.
Make it fun BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Facilitation payments are also not permitted within Of course we are serious about business, but we recognise PageGroups operations.
that having fun is an important factor within any ofce Bribery and corruption is, unfortunately, a feature of environment.
We encourage it and have learnt that the corporate and public life in many countries across the happier our people are, the more successful well be.
Governments, businesses and non-governmental organisations such as Transparency International are OUR CORE VALUES working together to tackle the issue, but despite our collective efforts, eradicating all forms of bribery and Our five values are key to our success.
They are the roots of corruption will take time.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT PageGroup and the foundation of our methods, approach to business and motivating our staff.
More than mere words, PageGroup therefore has a clear policy and we support Women@Page we believe our values are the essence of our brand and our employees to make decisions in line with our The best companies are those that are truly diverse.
In influence to the way we work and operate, day in, day out.
2012 we introduced the Women@Page initiative to help us achieve better gender diversity across all levels of our global Take pride Following the release of the UK Bribery Act on 1 July 2011, business.
The initiative is being driven by Fabrice Lacombe, This means taking pride in everything we do, who we are a significant amount of time has been spent training staff a member of our Executive Board.
We aim to create an and what we stand for.
We want every person who works across PageGroup in every country in which we operate.
inclusive working environment by developing the pipeline of for us to be proud, not just of their personal achievements, This training program went on for a number of weeks, to female talent and retaining that talent.
We have established but of those of the company too.
ensure all relevant personnel were fully aware of its impact.
a Women@Page steering group who have monthly global conference calls to introduce and drive a number of key Be passionate Changes were made to our policies and procedures where programmes that will be rolled out to the business.
The first Its our passion to provide the best service for our clients deemed necessary and we have updated our Group programme is the Global Mentoring Programme.
and candidates that triumphs over our competition.
Code of Conduct which can be found on our website.
Our corporate conduct is based on our commitment to The Global Mentoring Programme has been launched in Never give up acting professionally, fairly and with integrity.
PageGroup the UK and France, currently focusing on female managers.
A value few possess, but is essential in business, has adequate anti-corruption procedures in place and We worked with an external training consultancy to provide particularly ours.
It means never allowing yourself to be the best training for our mentors to ensure they are well knocked back by disappointment, refusing to give up and prepared and effective mentors to their mentees.
When the going gets tough, mentees were formally welcomed by the country managing the tough get going, is an apt phrase for PageGroup.
director and given a brochure explaining the aspirations and logistics of the programme.
Mentors were carefully paired PageGroup has adequate antiWork as a team with individuals with whom they had no prior contact and corruption procedures in place and Teamwork is essential in any company and ours is no over the last few months they have been travelling to a exception.
We embrace it wholeheartedly and every maintains a zero-tolerance approach variety of locations to conduct their first meetings.
employee is committed to working as part of a team.
In South Africa, Michael Page has launched a learning against corruption.
Teamwork makes us stronger, more efficient and the scheme for women, the Michael Page South Africa success that follows is so much more rewarding.
Learnership Programme, to show its commitment to skills 40 Programme to help combat this issue.
The initiative works will assist with addressing these issues.
In particular, our Meeting my mentor for Women@Page with London borough schools to raise awareness of the 2012 contribution aided the construction of a kitchen to feed and getting the opportunity to work with career opportunities in the City and brings together school the pupils, something the school had been working towards a managing director outside of Page and college leavers with City rms for placements between for a number of years.
It has not In London, staff volunteered their time to help an elderly only given me more confidence in my In 2012, we brought another five high-achieving, aspiring couple maintain their garden.
The couple had both been abilities as a manager, but has put a lot students on-board who were keen to gain an insight into suffering serious health problems and were unable to the recruitment industry.
This year, one of our trainees, maintain their passion for gardening and their previously of my potential worries about the future Shermeen Begum, was recognised for her stand-out immaculate garden suffered.
Our team visited their home to in perspective.
Its been really useful to work achieving Trainee of the Year from a group of over work on their garden to cut down the overgrowth and made get an objective perspective from a senior 100.
Individuals that do their traineeship at PageGroup it look presentable once again.
The couple were thrilled and can nominate to work in the operational business as a very appreciative that we were able to give them our time.
colleague outside of my own discipline.
consultant or in one of the support functions including Mentee, UK marketing, human resources or information technology.
Page Personnel gave me the opportunity Bespoke training and development programmes ensure development and female empowerment in South Africa.
to really enhance my personal life by that all trainees get a real introduction into the world of The 12 month programme offers seven full time positions recruitment.
Each person is mentored and nurtured during taking on Hopsi.
The whole ofce needed to women from disadvantaged backgrounds and gives their time with us, so that they go away with a better to agree to accept my project and actively opportunity to gain professional hands-on experience understanding of working life.
across Michael Page disciplines, as well providing participate in his development.
Now Hopsi theoretical foundations through a fully funded course in Working with local communities is rmly part of daily life in the ofce, his Business Administration.
In France, we are actively involved in supporting a nonplayful character has a real positive effect government organisation supporting blind people.
member of staff has taken on a puppy that will be raised and trained as a guide dog for the blind.
Hopsi travels into the Nicolas Bonnet, Page Personnel Lyon CHARITY AND COMMUNITY Lyon ofce everyday to learn how to be around people and how to behave in the ofce so that he can go on to guide a Charitable donations blind person who works in a similar ofce environment.
PageGroup made charitable donations of 194k during the year 2011: 171k.
In South Africa, Michael Page has formed a partnership with Chakaza School, an educational institution housing more Helping young people prepare for employment than 700 children from the ages of 6 to 12 in the rural area of The City of London shares its borders with some of the Mpumalanga.
It has recently been declared a non fee paying UKs most deprived boroughs where unemployment is high, school because of the poverty in the region.
The schools despite the considerable employment opportunities in the vision is to develop pupils holistically from an academic, City.
In 2005, PageGroup joined forces with The Brokerage sporting and cultural perspective despite financial and Citylink to support the City of London Business Traineeship broader social challenges.
Our partnership with the school 41 Teams in France support Nos Quartiers ont du Talent, a results of our business in South Africa, the more we are able Sharing our skills non-government organisation, through a unique project.
to contribute in terms of financial support to the Children In Scotland, we have a close and long-standing relationship PageGroup executives join together to help graduates from of the Dawn, which is a huge motivational factor for our with Craigroyston High School in Edinburgh, regularly underprivileged areas regarding their job search, focusing on employees.
Our success in 2011 resulted in a donation that holding interview skills workshops for the pupils to help CV writing, covering letters, preparation for job interviews as enabled us to support 25 orphaned and vulnerable children improve their employability skills.
In 2012, we launched the well as building their self-esteem and career development.
The contribution provided in-depth care such as PageGroup Scholarship Award which will see the winning By the end of 2012, we saw 17 mentors actively supporting nutrition and schooling support, counselling, monitoring of pupil receive a trophy and certicate as well as a paid 44 graduates throughout the year.
health and access to leisure activities.
internship in our Edinburgh ofce.
A representative from our Scotland business was invited to attend the Duke of In the UK, our business set up a first of its kind pilot The UK charity partner is currently Macmillan Cancer Rothesay Seeing is Believing event held at the school scheme with the University College Hospital Macmillan Support.
To date we have raised over 192k to fund four where we shared discussions with Prince Charles and a Cancer Centre in London, which helps rehabilitate cancer Macmillan Cancer Nurse Specialists within four major UK number of business leaders from the area.
The Seeing patients in a numbers of areas.
PageGroup staff were invited cities.
In 2012, our charity champion network has held a is Believing programme was established by His Royal to put our specialist skills to use and be involved in a unique number of quiz nights, in London, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Highness to give business leaders an insight into how they pilot to support those affected by cancer.
Weve celebrated the Queens Jubilee and the can play a role in addressing some of the key challenges to help patients become better prepared for re-entering the London Olympics with cake sales and sweepstakes.
Some facing urban and rural communities.
workplace through running workshops on CV writing and have pushed themselves to their physical limits through interview skills and putting them in a stronger position when marathons, throwing themselves out of planes and climbing applying for new opportunities.
In July, 90 people from PageGroup in the UK participated In the UK, our business set up a first of in the fourth annual Yorkshire Three Peaks challenge: a 25 its kind pilot scheme with the University mile trek across Yorkshires largest peaks in aid of Macmillan Cancer Support.
The weather was not on their side, but College Hospital Macmillan Cancer Centre despite wind, heavy rain, hail and at times snow, their sheer in London.
The fastest group completed the challenge in an impressive six hours 25 minutes.
Partnering with charities Everyone made a huge effort to fundraise for Macmillan and By working together with charities and associations, we can as a team raised 40k.
Over the four years weve organised contribute towards initiatives which provide the vital support this event, weve raised over 200k.
they need to continue raising awareness and funding research for important causes.
This year, PageGroup has supported a number of charities and local projects around the world.
ENVIRONMENT In South Africa, our business has a partnership with the Taking responsibility for our environment Children of the Dawn charity where levels of contribution PageGroup is a typical ofce-based business.
As such, our are directly linked to company performance.
The better the main environmental impacts come from the running of our 42 businesses around the world, generating carbon emissions This is only a summary of the many CR activities in Reducing our carbon footprint though the consumption of gas and electricity, vehicle use which we are involved and the impact the Group has on PageGroup fully recognise its responsibilities in relation to its and business travel, as well as ofce-based waste such as its environment.
The Board is committed to improving the paper and toners.
way in which our activities affect the environment by: Further details of our CR activities and impacts are shown At PageGroup, we are acutely aware of our responsibility in our main CR report, a copy of which can be downloaded sINIMISING THE EXTENT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF and work hard to minimise our impact on the environment from our website at: operations within the Companys sphere of influence on a global scale.
In a number of areas, we strive to make s 3TRIVING TO MINIMISE ANY EMISSIONS OF EFmUENTS IN OUR a difference and act responsibly in terms of recycling, WWW PAGEGROUP CO UK INVESTORS RESPONSIBILITIES properties that may cause environmental damage whereby PageGroup increased its recycling wastage by .
aspx s #ONSERVING ENERGY THROUGH MINIMISING CONSUMPTION 8% from 2011.
PageGroup also seeks to act responsibly in waste and maximising efficiency conservation and usage.
s 0ROMOTING EFlCIENT PURCHASING WHICH WILL BOTH MINIMISE waste and allow materials to be recycled where SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY appropriate At PageGroup, we are acutely aware of our s %MPLOYING SOUND WASTE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES It is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms and responsibility and work hard to minimise our s 0UTTING IN PLACE PROCEDURES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION conditions for transactions with suppliers by means ranging that enables compliance with the law, regulation and impact on the environment on a global scale.
from standard written terms to individually negotiated code of practice relating to environmental issues In a number of areas, we strive to make a contracts and that payment should be made in accordance sONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND MAKING with those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier difference and act responsibly in terms of improvements where possible on a global scale has also complied with them.
s !DOPTING A SYSTEMATIC ENERGY USE DATA COLLECTION recycling, whereby PageGroup increased its procedure and audit across all sites with yearly or halfrecycling wastage by 8% from 2011. yearly monitoring s $EPLOYING AN ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING SYSTEM ACROSS PageGroup has initiated KPIs based on GHG direct PageGroup operations which will ensure systematic, and indirect emissions, water consumption and waste robust, effective environmental data collection.
These enable PageGroup to monitor its efficiencies, and focus on minimising fuel combustions, energy and waste.
In 2012, Trucost was commissioned to assess PageGroups 2012 environmental data.
Data HEALTH & SAFETY was collated over a range of sites and ofces to reect our total environmental impact.
This data is available in We recognise that Health and Safety is an integral part the 2012 Corporate Responsibility report found on the of our workforce.
The day-to-day services we provide do Further details of our CR activities PageGroup website.
Along with policies on how to use our not pose great risk to either our employees or our clients.
and impacts are shown in our main resources responsibly around the ofces, we also have our However, we endeavour to maintain a safe and active CR report.
own internal MoreGreen scheme, which offers staff the environment.
Each ofce is responsible for its own re opportunity to purchase green products at reduced prices.
risk assessment and emergency procedures and has an allocated Facilities and Health and Safety Representative.
43 SHARE CAPITAL, RESTRICTIONS ON INFORMATION TO AUDITORS DIRECTORS CONFIRMATION TRANSFER OF SHARES AND OTHER Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report The directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report ADDITIONAL INFORMATION confirms that: and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary To the extent not discussed in this Directors Report, 1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit for shareholders to assess and provide the companys information relating to the Companys share capital information of which the companys auditor is unaware: performance, business model and strategy.
structure, restrictions on the holding or transfer of its and shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to such 2. the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to By order of the Board securities required by Section 992 of the Companies have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware Act 2006 is set out in the following sections of the of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Annual Report: Companys auditor is aware of that information.
s #ORPORATE 'OVERNANCE 2EPORT This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in Kelvin Stagg s 2EMUNERATION 2EPORT accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Company Secretary s. OTES TO THE !CCOUNTS.
OTE #ALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL Act 2006.
5 March 2013 and s 3HAREHOLDER NFORMATION AND !DVISERS !RTICLES OF Association.
AUDITORS Each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this Directors Report.
Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue in ofce and accordingly resolutions to re-appoint them as auditor and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 June 2013, together with explanatory notes, appear in the Notice of Meeting set The Annual General Meeting will be out on pages 119 to 129 and is available on our website at WWW PAGEGROUP CO UK INVESTORS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION held on 6 June 2013. agm 44 45
