However, royalties GOING CONCERN are charged for the use of the Groups trademarks and management fees are charged for Group and regional The Board has undertaken a recent and thorough review functions that provide services to other Group subsidiary of the Groups budget, forecasts and associated risks and companies.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are sensitivities and has concluded, given the level of cash recognised in accordance with IFRS on the settlement of in the business, the level of borrowing facilities available, these transactions where the cash received, when converted the geographical and discipline diversication, limited into Sterling, differs from the amounts previously recorded concentration risk, as well as the ability to manage the in the Income Statement.
These exchange gains and losses cost base, that the Group has adequate resources to are included within operating profit.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelve months from the date The table below shows the relative movements of the of approval of these accounts.
As a result, the going Groups main trading currencies against Pounds Sterling concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing during 2012, when compared to those prevalent during the financial statements.
Negative percentages indicate that Sterling has weakened against the foreign currency during the period.
At the end of 2012, the Group was operating in 34 countries around the world and carried out transactions recorded in twenty-five local currencies.
Movement in the average exchange Movement in the year end exchange rate used for Income Statement rate used for Balance Sheet translation between 2011 and 2012 translation between 2011 and 2012 Currency FOREIGN EXCHANGE Euro 7% 3% At the end of 2012, the Group was operating in 34 countries around the world and carried out transactions recorded in Swiss Franc 5% 2% twenty-five local currencies.
The Group reports its Income Brazilian Real 16% 15% Statement and Cash Flow Statement results in Pounds Sterling, using the average exchange rate for each month US Dollar -1% 5% to translate the local currency amounts into Sterling.
The Balance Sheet is translated using the exchange rates at the Australian Dollar 0% 3% Balance Sheet date.
Hong Kong Dollar -1% 4% As a service company, most of the Groups transactions are Singapore Dollar -2% -1% within the respective territory in which the local business operates and consequently there are few cross-border Japanese Yen 0% 18% 27
