Having invested many years in training and improve, the Groups profitability recovers more quickly as During the course of 2012, we maintained our strategy developing our highly capable management teams, our spare capacity is utilised.
Adopting this strategy in times of of organic investment in developing and diversifying our objective is to ensure we retain this expertise within the economic slowdown also drives our nancing strategy and business.
The rollout of disciplines under the Michael Page, Group.
By following this course of action, we typically gain the management of our balance sheet position.
In periods Page Personnel and Page Executive brands continued market share during downturns and position our businesses of economic slowdown, the business has continued to and we launched new businesses in two new countries for market leading rates of growth when economic produce strong cash ows as working capital requirements in Bogota, in Colombia, and in Casablanca, in Morocco.
However, in uncertain markets, a strong balance We also opened four new ofces in Cape Town, Maca sheet is essential to support the business through difficult Rio fide Janeiro, Suzhou and Taipei.
Pursuing this approach means that in an economic periods and, as economic conditions improve, to fund downturn our profitability declines as, in addition to the increased working capital requirements as the Revenue lower productivity levels that come with a slowdown, we business grows.
Reported revenue for the year was 2.9% lower 0.3% also carry spare capacity.
However, when market conditions higher at 989.9m 2011: 1,019.1m.
As in previous economic slowdowns, permanent placement activity is impacted more than temporary.
The latter being more REVIEW OF 2012 resilient to slowing activity levels.
As economic conditions and market confidence remained poor throughout 2012, this trend was reected in revenue, with revenue from With challenging economic conditions remaining throughout permanent placements in 2012 falling by 6.9% down 2012, currency exchange rates moving against us and 3.4% to 422.0m 2011: 453.1m, representing 42.6% tough year-on-year comparators, we believe we have 2011: 44.5% of Group revenue.
Revenue from temporary performed well.
placements for the year grew by 0.3% up 3.3% to As the demand for recruitment services increases, the 567.9m 2011: 566.0m.
number of positions to be lled rises, candidate shortages begin to emerge, the time-to-hire period reduces and there During the course of 2012, we maintained is less pressure on pricing.
With the increased uncertainty our strategy of organic investment in and resultant reduction in market confidence, many of these factors trended negatively, albeit to differing degrees in our developing and diversifying our business.
This created an environment where productivity fell with less gross profit per fee earner.
The Gross profit Groups strategy of organic growth, as well as maintaining Gross profit for the year fell by 4.9% down 1.5% to market presence and a degree of spare capacity, means 526.9m 2011: 553.8m.
Gross profit increased by 2% that the Group is operationally geared, which resulted in year-on-year in the first half, but as market conditions a proportionally greater reduction in operating profit than deteriorated, the year-on-year growth rate slowed to -5% in gross profit.
This conversion of gross profit to operating in the second half.
profit was also reduced by the amount of investment being made to facilitate and maintain growth in our newer markets, Group gross margin decreased to 53.2% 2011: 54.3%, typically where we see longer term potential.
largely as a result of the shift in the mix of business due to the growth in temporary compared to permanent Amounts stated in constant rates of exchange 14 placements.
Gross profit from permanent placements risk of the candidate being rejected or the assignment profit before exceptional items from gross profit fell to fell by 6.6% down 3.2% to 409.7m 2011: 438.4m, being cancelled decreases, thereby improving our 12.4% 2011: 15.5%.
representing 77.8% 2011: 79.2% of Group gross profit.
When economic conditions weaken and The gross margin from permanent placements remained recruitment activity slows, these factors work in reverse Administrative expenses in the year decreased by 1.3% broadly at at 97.1% 2011: 96.8%.
Gross profit from and result in a rapid shortening of earnings visibility.
to 461.7m 2011: 467.7m, largely as a result of the temporary placements increased by 1.6% up by 5.0% decrease in headcount.
Administrative expenses included to 117.2m 2011: 115.4m, representing 22.2% 2011: 13.2m of share-based payment charges 2011: 13.0m 20.8% of Group gross profit.
The gross margin achieved in respect of the Groups deferred annual bonus scheme, As a result of the Groups organic longon temporary placements was 20.6% 2011: 20.4% and long-term incentive plan and share option schemes.
term growth strategy, tight control on was relatively stable throughout 2012. costs and profit-based bonuses, we During the first half of 2012, we restructured the Groups Operating profit and conversion rates management, which resulted in the removal of the have a business model that is highly As a result of the Groups organic long-term growth Continental Europe and Americas regional management operationally geared.
strategy, tight control on costs and profit-based bonuses, team, including one Executive Director.
Severance we have a business model that is highly operationally packages for this team, employed by the Group for many geared.
The majority of our cost base, around 75%, As a result of the continuing macroeconomic uncertainty years and largely based in France, with accompanying relates to our staff, with the other main components and the slowing in our growth rates, following selective high employment protection and social charges, totalled being property and information technology costs.
With a increases in our headcount in the first half, headcount 7.8m, within which were 1.5m of accelerated share strategy of organic growth, the Group incurs start-up costs reduced by 66 in the third quarter and by 156 in the fourth plan related charges.
These have been presented as an and operating losses as investments are made to grow quarter.
Our headcount at the end of 2012 was 5,099, exceptional charge in the income statement.
The payback existing and new businesses, open new ofces, start new which is 187 3.5% lower than at the end of 2011. period for this investment is around two years.
disciplines and launch in new countries.
Furthermore, in periods when headcount is increasing signicantly, it takes The costs associated with increasing and decreasing the time to train and develop staff before they become fully headcount capacity in the business are considered to productive.
These characteristics of our growth strategy be part of normal trading expenses and are therefore not and the levels of investment impact on the conversion separately disclosed.
rates in any one reporting period.
The Groups strategy of growing organically using homeThe majority of our permanent placement activity is grown talent, maintaining market presence and maintaining undertaken on a contingent basis, which means on those spare capacity, means that the Group is highly operationally The majority of our cost base, assignments we only generate revenue when a candidate geared to an increase in gross profit as economies is successfully placed in a role.
Our short-term visibility on recover, tempered only by the rate of investment for future around 75%, relates to our staff, these earnings is provided by the number of assignments growth.
However, when economic conditions weaken and with the other main components we are working on, the number of candidates we have at recruitment activity slows, these factors work in reverse being property and information interview and the stage they are at in the interview process.
and are compounded by a shortening of earnings visibility.
The average time to complete a placement from taking on This is reected in the 24.3% decrease in operating profit technology costs.
an assignment to successfully placing a candidate tends from 86.0m in 2011, to 65.1m before exceptional items in to shorten in a recovery, increasing productivity, and the 2012.
Accordingly, the Groups conversion rate of operating 15
