BOARD OF DIRECTORS ROBIN BUCHANAN Chairman Robin was appointed to the Board of Michael Page in August 2011 and became Chairman of the Board that December.
He is also a non-executive director of Schroders plc and LyondellBasell NV.
He is a member of the Trilateral Commission, a Senior Adviser to Bain & Company, and an adviser to private equity rms, family ofces and voluntary organisations.
Prior to joining the Board of Michael Page, Robin served as Dean and President of London Business School and as the Senior Partner of Bain & Company in the United Kingdom.
Past board appointments include Bain & Company Inc. Shire plc and Liberty International plc.
He qualied as a Chartered Accountant with a predecessor rm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.
Robin is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
STEVE INGHAM ANDREW BRACEY Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Steve joined Michael Page in 1987 as a Andrew joined Michael Page from Ocado consultant with Michael Page Marketing and Group plc where he was Chief Financial Sales.
He was responsible for setting up the officer and Executive Director.
Prior to Ocado, London Marketing and Sales businesses Andrew had an 18 year career in private equity and was promoted to Operating Director in and investment banking.
He was appointed Managing Director Internationals European consumer group until of Michael Page Marketing and Sales in 1994.
From 2003 to 2008, he was at Barclays Subsequently he took additional responsibility Capital as Head of the Principal Investments for Michael Pages Retail, Technology, Human Area and also sat on the Board and Audit Resources and Engineering businesses.
From 2000 to 2003, He was promoted to the Board as Executive he was a Managing Director at Credit Suisse.
Director of UK Operations in January 2001, He started his career at UBS in 1991 and subsequently to Managing Director of UK in Corporate Finance.
He was appointed Chief Executive officer on 6 April 2006.
Steve is a member of the Great Ormond Street Hospitals Corporate Partnership Board, and on 8 January 2013 he was appointed to the Board of Debenhams plc as a Non-Executive Director.
30 SIMON BODDIE DAVID LOWDEN DR TIM MILLER Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Simon is a Chartered Accountant and David is Senior Independent Director and Tim was appointed a Director of Standard has been Group Finance Director of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Chartered Bank in December 2004.
Electrocomponents plc since September Berendsen plc, Non-Executive Director and Tim is responsible for the Corporate Real 2005.
Simon joined Electrocomponents Chairman of the Audit Committee at William Estate, Corporate Secretariat, Legal, plc from Diageo where he held a variety Hill plc, and Chairman of Rice 2 Limited.
Compliance & Assurance, Internal Audit of senior finance positions over a 13 year David was a member of the Board of TNS plc, and Global Research functions.
Tim is also career, latterly as Finance Director of Key the marketing services business, from 1999 Chairman of Standard Chartered Korea Markets.
Simon was appointed to the to 2009, becoming Chief Executive officer in and Chairman of the Banks Environment Board of Michael Page International plc on 2006.
Before joining TNS plc he held senior Committee.
Outside the Bank, Tim is Chairman 24 September 2012 and is a member of financial positions with Asprey plc, A. C. Nielsen of the Governing Body, School of Oriental & the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Corporation and Federal Express Corporation.
African Studies SOAS and a Member of Committees.
David is Chairman of the Remuneration the School Advisory Board, and a Special Committee and a member of the Audit and Professor of Strategy at Nottingham Nomination Committees.
Tim was appointed to the Board on 15 August 2005.
Tim is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
RUBY MCGREGOR-SMITH Independent Non-Executive Director Ruby McGregor-Smith is the Chief Executive of MITIE Group PLC.
She was appointed to the Board of Michael Page International plc on 23 May 2007 and is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She qualied as a Chartered Accountant with BDO Stoy Hayward.
In December 2002 she joined MITIE Group PLC as Group Finance Director and was appointed Chief Operating officer in September 2005 before being appointed CEO in March 2007.
Ruby is a member of the BitCs Business in the Communitys Board of Trustee Directors, a member of the CBIs Presidents Committee and the Public Services Strategy Board.
In March 2012 she was also appointed as the Chairperson of the Womens Business Council, a working group set up by the Home Secretary, to make a list of recommendations to ministers on the best ways to maximise womens contributions and opportunities in the workplace.
31 PATRICK HOLLARD EXECUTIVE BOARD Executive Board Director LATAM, Southern & Western USA Patrick joined Michael Page in France in 1996, having worked previously for KPMG Peat Marwick.
Prior to that, he was Vice-President of AIESEC International from 1991 to 1992.
Appointed Director in 1999, he moved to Sao Paulo to launch Michael Page Brazil, then Mexico in 2006, Argentina in 2008, Chile in 2010 and Colombia in 2011.
Appointed Regional Managing Director in 2007, he is now responsible for the LATAM, Southern and Western USA regions.
OLIVER WATSON OLIVIER LEMAITRE Executive Board Director UK, UAE, Executive Board Director Europe South Africa, Eastern USA & Canada Olivier joined Michael Page Finance in Paris in 1997, having worked previously as a Controller Oliver joined Michael Page in 1995 as a for Renault in Poland.
In 1999, he moved to consultant in London.
He was appointed Sao Paulo to launch Michael Page Brazil, Director of Michael Page UK Sales in before returning to Europe in November 2002 1997 and then Managing Director in 2002. to lead our Michael Page Frankfurt ofce.
In 2006, he was appointed Regional Managing He was appointed Managing Director of Director for Michael Page UK Sales, Marketing Michael Page Germany in 2004.
In 2007, he launched Michael Page he was appointed Regional Managing Director Middle East and has since developed our ofce in charge of Austria, Belgium, Germany, network across the region.
In 2009, he became Holland, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
Regional Managing Director for Michael Page He is now in charge of Continental Europe.
UK Finance, Marketing and Sales, Middle East, Scotland and Ireland.
He is now responsible for the UK, UAE, South Africa, Eastern USA and Canada regions.
32 GARY JAMES FABRICE LACOMBE MARK LOCKTON-GODDARD Executive Board Director Executive Board Director France, Chief Information officer Asia Pacic Central & Eastern Europe Mark joined from  PwC where he was a Director in the Business Gary joined Michael Page Finance in London Fabrice joined Michael Page Finance in 1994 and Technology Transformation Consulting in 1984.
He was appointed Director of as a consultant in Paris.
In 1996, he launched business for 3 years.
Prior to that he worked Michael Page Sales & Marketing in 1994, Michael Page Engineering and became a for other Big 4 accounting and consulting Managing Director of Michael Page Director in 1998.
In 1999, he was appointed rms for over 15 years.
In that time he assisted Marketing in 1997 and transferred to Executive Director and then in 2001 Managing a range of FTSE 250 businesses across America in 2002 as Managing Director Director of Michael Page France.
He launched multiple sectors, including recruitment and of North America.
He was appointed Michael Page Africa in 2005 and also took professional services, to reduce complexity Managing Director of the Asia Pacic charge of Page Personnel France in 2007. and drive operational performance through region in August 2006, moving to Australia, He became Regional Managing Director the better use of technology.
He is now responsible for France, Central and Eastern Europe.
