SAME STRATEGY WHAT THE PAGEGROUP REBRAND MEANS FOR OUR INVESTORS Our strategy and approach remain unchanged: organic growth by region and discipline, a focus on growth markets, development of internal management expertise and a structure that champions our own talent.
4HE 0AGE'ROUP REBRAND BRINGS CLARITY TO OUR OPERATIONS it reects that we are specialists by job function, sector, geography and process.
In an increasingly fragmented recruitment landscape, this specialist approach combined with our established global network gives us a better ability to reach more candidates and clients.
Our aim is higher LEVELS OF ENGAGEMENT TO CONTINUE TO ESTABLISH AND BUILD professional partnerships for the long-term and to move away from transaction-led relationships.
The rebrand also addresses the need to demonstrate a clear brand proposition in a marketplace that is growing in complexity.
People want the reassurance of a business with a strong TRACK RECORD 0AGE'ROUP S BRANDS ARE PRESENTED IN A way that is recognisable and consistent across sectors, markets, audiences and media channels.
6 OUR BRAND STRUCTURE REBRAND: FROM MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL TO PAGEGROUP To recognise our diversication and remit, the corporate group Michael Page International became known as PageGroup in October 2012.
We updated our corporate identity to reect the strong growth to date, and the potential expansion of our Some of our operations core operating brands in the future.
Informatica Design PageGroup retains the core brands of Michael Page and Page Retaining Page across all of our Personnel with no operational change.
We have rationalised brands capitalises on our history our executive search operations by introducing Page Executive.
and builds on our success.
Our new brand structure consolidates our operations to allow us to capitalise on the range of opportunities within professional recruitment that lie outside the remit of the original, core brand.
Page Personnel and our executive search businesses have reached a significant size and market reputation so we want to reect their success and potential, alongside our original brand Michael Page, with a new corporate name that represents our core operating companies equally.
7 The executive search business of PageGroup, Page Executive, offers a range of search, selection and management solutions for organisations to attract and retain their leadership talent.
The roles Ze focus on t picall sit at the sub board and board levels.
Page Executive has a global presence, operating across $frica, $sia Pacic, Europe, 1orth and atin $merica.
Our approach $ exible approach to talent attraction based on client requirements.
Global reach combined with local expertise.
Diverse shortlists based on a thorough search of the market.
Results delivered quickly and accurately.
These are the characteristics you can expect when you partner with Page Executive to identify your business leaders.
How we reach our audience Page Executive has a developed network of senior contacts across our operating territories and markets.
This enables us to approach and attract the top talent in the market for organisations wishing to make a leadership hire.
We also run managed selection campaigns which can include high prole or niche advertising.
Opportunities for growth Page Executive aims to diversify by market sector and geography, across our international network.
8 Michael Page is the original PageGroup brand and is established as the first business in each new country that we enter.
Michael Page is comprised of 14 disciplines - each providing a service to a specialist area of the market.
Operating at the qualied professional and management level, Michael Page recruits on a permanent, temporary, contract and interim basis.
Michael Page operates in 34 countries worldwide, across Africa, Asia Pacic, Europe, North and Latin America.
Our approach At Michael Page, we focus on developing a thorough understanding of our clients businesses, from technical and soft skill requirements to future growth plans.
We are then able to partner effectively to manage their recruitment requirements to support expansion, diversication, or change programmes.
How we reach our audience Michael Page specialises in the selection of employees for employers, utilising a variety of methods to source candidates from our industry-leading databases, to social media, to networking and managed advertising campaigns.
Opportunities for growth Michael Page aims to grow by expansion: by establishing new specialist disciplines and by increasing our operations geographically, and into new market sectors in the regions in which we currently operate.
9 Page Personnel offers specialist recruitment services to organisations requiring employees or people looking for jobs at the technical and administrative support, professional clerical and junior management levels.
Page Personnel operates in 21 countries across Asia Pacic, Europe, North and Latin America.
Our approach Employers and candidates in a high activity, high volume market require a responsive recruitment partner a service that Page Personnel is proud to provide.
Speed and accuracy define our proposition: we react quickly to ensure that organisations have access to the skills they require.
Page Personnel operates in the permanent, contract and temporary recruitment elds.
How we reach our audience Page Personnel supports employers needing to make hiring decisions quickly by maintaining and actively growing a pool of qualied candidates, ready for their next opportunity.
Opportunites for growth Page Personnel is one of the fastest growing PageGroup businesses, diversifying by market and geography across our international network.
