KPI 2012 2011 Denition, method of calculation and analysis KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Gross margin has decreased slightly, due largely as a result of the mix of permanent and temporary placements.
Financial and non-financial key performance indicators Gross margin 53.2% 54.3% In tougher trading conditions, there tends to be a swing to lower margin KPIs used by the Board to monitor progress are listed in temporary placements.
Source: Consolidated income statement in the the table right.
financial statements Operating profit as a percentage of gross profit showing the Groups effectiveness at controlling the costs and expenses associated with its normal Conversion business operations and the level of investment for future growth.
Conversion before 12.4% 15.5% has declined compared to last year, reecting the impact of the economic exceptional uncertainty on demand for the Groups services, lower productivity and the items investment in maintaining market presence and carrying spare capacity.
Source: Consolidated income statement in the financial statements.
Represents productivity of fee earners and is calculated by dividing the gross profit for the year by the average number of fee earners and directors.
The Productivity higher the number, the higher their productivity.
Productivity is a function of the gross profit 140.4k 149.5k numbers and experience of fee earners, the impact of pricing and the general per fee earner conditions of the recruitment market.
The decrease in productivity this year is as a result of a general worsening of market conditions.
Represents the balance between operational and non-operational staff.
Fee earner: The balance in the year reects the relative increase in support staff in new support staff 71:29 72:28 infrastructure over the movement in the number of fee earners.
Represents the length of time before the Group receives payments from its debtors.
Calculated by comparing how many days billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
The decrease in the year reects an increased focus on cash Debtor days 47 50 collections and a greater proportion of temporary business, with the average debtor days being lower for the temporary business compared to the permanent business.
The movements in KPIs are consistent with the business performance as discussed in the Business Review.
The source of data and calculation methods year-on-year are on a consistent basis.
