Our organic growth is achieved by drawing upon the skills and To increase the diversication GROUP STRATEGY experiences of proven PageGroup management, ensuring we of PageGroup by organically have the best and most experienced, home-grown talent in each The Groups strategy is to expand and diversify the business by key role.
When we invest in a new business, we do so only with growing existing and new industry sectors, by professional disciplines, by geography and by a long-term objective and in the knowledge that at some point teams, ofces, disciplines and level of focus Page Personnel, Michael Page or Page Executive, there will be periods when economic activity slows.
While it is with the objective of being the leading specialist recruitment difficult to predict accurately when these slowdowns will occur countries with a consistent consultancy in each of its chosen markets.
and how severe they will be, it has been our practice in the past, team and meritocratic culture and remains our intention, to maintain our presence in our chosen As recruitment activity is dependent upon economic cycles, by and consistent client and markets, while keeping close control over our cost base.
being more diverse, the dependency on individual businesses or candidate delivery.
markets is reduced, making the overall Group more resilient.
This Our team-based structure and profit share business model is strategy is pursued entirely through the organic growth of existing scalable.
The small size of our specialist teams also means we and new teams, ofces, disciplines and countries, with a consistent can increase headcount rapidly to achieve growth.
When market Disciplines Countries Teams team and meritocratic culture.
conditions tighten, these teams then reduce in size, largely through natural attrition.
Consequently, our cost base reduces Offices Teams Disciplines Teams Disciplines Countries Ofces Teams CULTURE Teams Disciplines Countries Countries Disciplines Teams Teams Disciplines Ofces Teams EXECUTIVE SEARCH QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL CLERICAL PROFESSIONAL GENERALIST STAFFING PageGroup website launched in 2012 13 TARGETED SECTORS
