managing increasing levels of compliance.
If the Group does in the business, we are well positioned to respond to SUMMARY AND CURRENT TRADING not continue to compete in its markets effectively, by hiring improvements in market conditions in 2013. new staff, opening and expanding ofces and continuing Despite market conditions deteriorating considerably the discipline roll-outs, there is a risk that competitors may We will next update the market on our first quarter trading since Q2, the Group delivered a good performance in a beat us to key strategic opportunities, which may result in in an announcement on 16 April 2013. tough economic environment with gross profit down 4.9% lost business and a reduction in market share.
This risk is compared to 2011, a decrease of only 1.5% at constant mitigated by meetings of the Board, Executive Board and rates of exchange.
Regional and Country Management Boards where Group strategy is continually reviewed and decisions made over As in previous economic slowdowns, we have reacted the allocation of the Groups resources, principally people.
according to the prevailing economic climate in each Steve Ingham, Chief Executive officer market in which we operate and managed each business 5 March 2013 Technology appropriately, adjusting headcount to reect market The Group is reliant on a number of technology systems to conditions, while continuing to invest where we have provide services to clients and candidates.
These systems opportunities for long-term growth.
Group headcount are dependent on a number of important suppliers that remained broadly at in the first half, increasing in areas provide the technology infrastructure and disaster recovery Andrew Bracey, Chief Financial officer where we had growth, principally Asia and our newer solutions.
The performance of these suppliers is continually 5 March 2013 businesses and reducing in other areas, largely from natural monitored to ensure business critical services are available attrition.
Reecting the increasingly challenging conditions and maintained as far as practically possible.
Due to the since the first quarter, in the second half our headcount rapid advancement of technology, there is a risk that reduced, through natural attrition, by 222 people.
systems could become outdated with the potential to affect efficiency and have an impact on revenue and client service.
We continue to invest in geographic diversication where we This risk is mitigated by regular reviews of the Groups see long-term growth potential.
In 2012 we opened ofces technology strategy to ensure that it supports the overall in Cape Town and a further ofce in Maca Rio fide Janeiro, Group strategy.
adding to the new ofces in Taipei, Suzhou, Bogota, and Casablanca opened earlier in the year.
It is a clear priority Legal that we continue to manage the cost base to reect market The Group operates in a large number of jurisdictions conditions, whilst investing to create a platform for greater that have varying legal and compliance regulations.
The growth when markets improve.
We believe strongly that we Group takes its responsibilities seriously and ensures have the balance right.
that its policies, systems and procedures are continually updated to reect best practice and to comply with the legal requirements in all the markets in which it operates.
In We are encouraged by the improvement in the growth rate order to reduce the legal and compliance risks, fee earners in Group gross profit we recorded in the fourth quarter of and support staff receive regular training and updates of 2012, with three of our four regions recording a sequential changes in legal and compliance requirements.
While the strength of any recovery is uncertain, we believe that with a strong balance sheet, an outstanding geographic footprint and spare capacity 29
