Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Board of directors 1.
Kevin Loosemore, 53 Executive Chairman Kevin is a director of Farnham Castle and was previously non-executive Chairman of Morse plc and a non-executive director of Nationwide Building Society.
His most recent executive roles were as Chief Operating Offi cer of Cable & Wireless plc, President of Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa and before that, he was Chief Executive of IBM UK Limited.
Kevin was appointed non-executive Chairman of the Company in 2005 and Executive Chairman in April 2011.
He has a degree in politics and economics from Oxford University.
Mike Phillips, 49 Chief Financial Offi cer Mike is a non-executive director of Parity Group plc.
Mike joined Micro Focus on 7 September 2010 and was previously Chief Executive Offi cer at Morse plc, following his initial role as Group Finance Director.
Mike left Morse plc in July 2010 following the turnaround and successful corporate sale to 2e2 in June 2010.
From 1998 to 2007, Mike was Group Finance Director at Microgen plc and played a lead role in the transformation of the company to an international software and services business with sustainable and profi table growth.
Earlier roles include seven years corporate fi finance work at Smith & Williamson, as well as two years at  where he led the UK technology team, reporting to the global Head of Corporate Finance for the Technology Sector.
Mike began his career at Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co now KPMG.
David Maloney, 56 Non-executive senior independent director and Deputy Chairman David is a non-executive director of Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc and Enterprise Inns plc.
He is also Chairman of the board of Trustees of Make-a-Wish Foundation UK Limited, Brandon Hire Group Holdings Limited and Reed & Mackay Travel Limited.
David was previously a non-executive director of Carillion plc and Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd. His most recent executive role was as Chief Financial Offi cer of the global hotel group Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts.
Prior to that he was Chief Financial Offi cer of Thomson Travel Group and Preussag Airlines and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David was appointed non-executive senior independent director in 2005 and Deputy Chairman in April 2011.
David is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in economics from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 4.
Karen Slatford, 55 Non-executive director Karen is Chair of Neverfail Group Limited, the continuous availability fi rm, The Foundry, a leading special effects software company and Featurespace Ltd, a data analytics software company.
Karen is also a non-executive director at Volex Group plc, the global supplier of components and cables and Cambridge Broadband Networks Ltd, a market leader in wireless solutions.
Prior to her current board responsibilities, she has held various roles at board level since 2001 at a range of technology companies, including Portwise AB, Via Networks, Inc, Compel Group plc, HAL Knowledge Systems and Stepstone ASA.
Karen began her career at ICL before spending 20 years at Hewlett Packard, where in 2000 she became Vice President and General Manager Worldwide Sales & Marketing for the Business Customer Organisation, responsible for sales of all Hewlett Packards products, services and software to business customers globally.
Karen holds a BA Honours degree in European Studies from Bath University and a Diploma in Marketing.
Tom Skelton, 51 Non-executive director Tom is Chief Executive Offi cer of Foundation Radiology Group and a founding member of Confl uence Medical Systems, a healthcare and technology consulting partnership.
Previously, he served as Chief Executive Offi cer for Misys Healthcare Systems from January 2002 until March 2007 and as a director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Offi cer of Medic Computer Systems, a US-based software company focused on the healthcare information technology market.
He earned his BSBA from Robert Morris University, Pittsburgh, PA. 6.
Tom Virden, 54 Non-executive director Tom is a non-executive director of Atari Inc publicly traded on the French stock exchange and technology start-up Sweetbeam.
He began his career at Apple Inc and held a range of leadership roles in market development and product marketing, including the leadership of the companys introduction to Small Business and the Music industry.
More recently, Tom was International Business Development Director at lastminute.
com with responsibility for International Strategy for the company and launching subsidiaries and fully localised sites in France, Germany, Sweden, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Australia and Ireland.
Prior to that, he was Vice President, Marketing at Digidesign, a California company that brought digital multitrack recording and editing to personal computers.
Tom has also started and led a number of technology companies including Katz Media SARL, Virtual European Offi ce VEO, and most recently, Boatbookings.
com, the worlds largest online yacht charter site, with 8,000 yachts worldwide.
Tom holds a Bachelor of Arts, Double Major in Psychology and Economics from Stanford University in the US.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
