Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company present expenditure of $3.3m 2011:$9.2m consisting of $19.5m 2011: their report and the audited consolidated fi financial statements of the $21.7m of capitalised development expenditure offset by $16.2m Company for the year ended 30 April 2012.
2011:$12.5m of amortisation of previously capitalised development expenditure.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Group during the year was the making Donations and selling of software products.
The Groups policy is to make no donations or contributions to political parties 2011: nil.
During the year reported on, the Group made The Company is limited by shares and is domiciled and incorporated charitable donations of $53,000 to a number of local and national in the United Kingdom.
The registered offi ce of the Company is: charities and other local organisations 2011: $56,000.
The Group The Lawn, 2230 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN.
has a gift programme that matches employee donations and has implemented a give as you earn scheme to allow employees to donate Business review to their chosen charity through the Groups payroll.
It also has a policy The Group is required to produce a business review complying with in place to encourage employees to volunteer a certain number the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The information that of hours to assist local organisations.
fulfi ls these requirements can be found in this directors report and in the following sections: Directors and their interests The directors of the Company who served during the year reported The Executive Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 5, the operational on and up to the date of signing are as follows: and fi financial review on pages 6 to 9 which include details of the Groups activity and the future focus of the Group, the statement Executive on corporate and social responsibility set out on pages 10 to 13, the Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 14 and 15 and the Mike Phillips Chief Financial Offi cer key performance indicators KPIs on page 35 are incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Non-executive David Maloney Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Corporate governance Paul Pester resigned 5 January 2012 The Group is required to produce a corporate governance statement Tom Skelton pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The information Karen Slatford that fulfi ls this requirement can be found in this directors report Tom Virden appointed 5 January 2012 and in the corporate governance section on pages 22 to 27 which are incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Paul Pester resigned as a non-executive director on 5 January 2012 Dividends and Tom Virden was appointed as a non-executive director on The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy refl ecting 5January 2012.
Details of the interests of the directors and their the long-term earnings and cash fl ow potential of Micro Focus whilst families in the ordinary shares of the Company, as disclosed in the targeting a level of dividend cover for the year ended 30 April 2012 register of directors interests, are given in the remuneration report of approximately 2 times on a pre-exceptional diluted earnings per on pages 28 to 34. share basis.
The directors recommend payment of a fi final dividend in respect of the fi financial year ended 30 April 2012 of 23.4 cents None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of per share, which, taken together with the interim dividend of 8.2 signifi cance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during cents per share paid in January 2012, gives a total dividend in respect the fi financial year, as disclosed in note 33, related party transactions.
of 2012 of 31.6 cents per share which is 2 times covered by pre-exceptional diluted earnings per share basis.
Subject to shareholder The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and offi cers approval, the fi final dividend will be paid on 2 October 2012 to shareholders of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them on the register on 31 August 2012.
Dividends will be paid in sterling while acting as directors and offi cers of Group companies.
based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.57, equivalent to approximately 14.90p per share, being the rate applicable on 20 June 2012, the date During the fi financial year reported on and as at the date of this report on which the board resolved to propose the fi final dividend.
qualifying third party indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent Research and development permitted by law and by the Articles of Association of the Company All expenditure on research is expensed as incurred.
The Group against liabilities they may incur in the execution of their duties as capitalises development expenditure from the point that all the directors of the Company.
A copy of the Articles of Association is relevant criteria are met.
The capitalised cost is then amortised available for review at the registered offi ce of the Company.
over the useful life of the software.
During the year to 30 April 2012, $58.3m was charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2011: $67.1m in respect of research and development expenditure.
This charge is after net capitalisation of development Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 Employment policy Share option schemes Equal opportunities The directors remain committed to the principle that selected The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress is given to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital status, through share based compensation schemes.
Details of the Groups disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin share based compensation schemes are given in note 29. or any other conditions not relevant to the performance of the job, who can demonstrate that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
Payment of creditors The Company and the Group seeks the best possible terms from All employees accept the commitment within this policy that the suppliers appropriate to its business and in placing orders gives Group will not allow discrimination or harassment by employees consideration to quality, delivery, price and terms of payment.
The or others acting on the Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital Company and the Group do not follow a specifi c payment code status, race, nationality, disability or religious or political beliefs.
but have a policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the specifi c terms agreed with each supplier.
The average number of days Disabled employees purchases outstanding at 30 April 2012 for the Group was 20 days With regard to existing employees and those who may become 2011: 38 days and for the Company was 55 days 2011: 91 days, disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide based on the Company and the Groups trade payables at the end continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions of the year and the amounts invoiced during the year by the Company and to provide training and career development, including promotion, and Groups trade suppliers.
Financial instruments Employee involvement The exposure of the Group to fi financial risks, including the use The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the of fi financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure Groups business strategy and the objectives which are in place to to price, credit, cash fl ow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 21 assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
Communications to the fi financial statements.
at the time of key announcements, including presentations by directors to all employees, together with briefi ngs throughout the Substantial shareholding year, are part of the communication and consultation programme.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both Financial Services Authority, at 20 June 2012, the Company had to raise issues and to assist with the two-way fl ow of information.
been advised of the following notifi able interests in its voting rights: The Group also has an online method which enables employees Ordinary shares Percentage of to express views and improvements.
4 Name of holder of 11 11 pence each issued capital Further education and training Prudential Plc 15,277,963 8.23% Continuing education, training and development are important Artemis Investment Management LLP 9,378,513 5.05% Legal and General Group Plc 7,835,219 3.88% to ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports Norges Bank 7,311,808 3.94% individuals who wish to obtain relevant and appropriate further education qualifi cations and reimburses tuition fees up to a specifi ed level.
Training needs of all employees are also analysed during Future developments the annual and half yearly appraisal process, at which time a training Further information regarding the Groups future developments can plan is agreed as part of each individuals ongoing development.
be found in the Executive Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 5 and the operational and fi financial review on pages 6 to 9.
At appropriate times throughout the course of a year, the directors are briefed on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes Additional information for shareholders of practice which are relevant to their duties and the operations Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into of the Groups business.
Where appropriate the directors are provided English law, the following description provides the required with copies of the underlying documentation or written summaries information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere of the principal changes.
This summary is based on the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, further information with regard to the evaluation can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 22 to 27.
The evaluation included an assessment of directors training and development requirements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Directors report continued Share capital discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper 4 ordinary shares of 11 pence each.
In January 2012 a Return of basis.
The board may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer 11 Value was made to all shareholders amounting to $129.6m relating to shares in certifi cated form unless it is in respect of only one in cash 45 pence per share, equivalent to approximately 69.8 cents class of share and is lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer per share, by way of a B and C share scheme, which gave shareholders Offi ce accompanied by the relevant share certifi cate s and such other other than certain overseas subsidiaries a choice between receiving evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the the cash in the form of income or capital.
The Return of Value was transfer or to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer accompanied by a 22 for 25 share consolidation to maintain broad is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that comparability of the share price and return per share of the ordinary person so to do.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certifi cated form shares before and after the creation of the B and C shares, further by a recognised clearing house or a nominee of a recognised clearing details of which can be found in note 25.
During the year a repurchase house or of a recognised investment exchange the lodgement of share of shares was undertaken as set out in note 24.
Shares held in treasury certifi cates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certifi cates were consolidated in the same way as all other shares.
During the year have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
The directors 272,316 shares were transferred out of treasury to meet the Companys may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether obligations under its employee share plans.
fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Subject to the Articles and the CREST Rules as defi ned in the Uncertifi cated Rights and obligations attaching to shares Securities Regulations, as amended, and apart from any class Voting in a general meeting of the Company: of wholly dematerialised security, the board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held in uncertifi cated form and, On a show of hands, every member present in person and every subject to the Articles, title to uncertifi cated shares to be transferred proxy duly appointed by a member shall have one vote: and by means of a relevant system.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall Repurchase of shares have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM held on 22 September 2011 to buy back up to 14.99% of issued share No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class capital.
At that time this amounted to 29,642,168 ordinary shares, meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other sum and the authority remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
The minimum price which must be paid 4 Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
for such shares is now 11 pence and the maximum price which may 11 be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of i Deadlines for voting rights 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Offi cial List for of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on the fi five business days immediately preceding the day on which the 26September 2012 are set out in the Notice of Meeting which Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: and ii the higher accompanies this report.
of the price of the last independent trade of any Ordinary Share and the highest current bid for an Ordinary Share as stipulated by Article 5 1 Dividends and distributions of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buyback programmes may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members and stabilisation of fi financial instruments 2273 2003.
Following the but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
Return of Value and associated share consolidation the limit on the The board may pay interim dividends, and any fi xed rate dividend number of shares to be purchased is 24,472,697 being 14.95% whenever the profi ts of the Company, in the opinion of the board, of the current voting rights of the Company.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Amendment to the Articles Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with Transfer of shares the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certifi ed shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual Appointment and replacement of directors form or in any other form which the board may approve.
The board Directors shall be no less than three and no more than eleven may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary to register any instrument of transfer of a certifi ed share which is not resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds a fully paid share provided that, where any such shares are admitted offi ce only until the next AGM and is then eligible for election to the Offi cial List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, such or re-election by the shareholders annually thereafter.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to Annual General Meeting AGM hold employment or executive offi ce for such period subject to the The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and the explanatory notes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM may revoke or terminate any such employment.
The meeting will be held at Micro Focus House, 2 East Bridge Street, Belfast, BT1 3NQ, Northern Ireland The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has on 26 September 2012 at 1.15pm UK time.
been given and the board by unanimous decision may remove any director before the expiration of his term of offi ce and the Company Independent auditors and disclosure of information to auditors may elect or the board may appoint another person in place of a So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report director so removed from offi ce.
confi rm that there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their The offi ce of director shall be vacated if: i he or she in writing resigns report of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that the or offers to resign and the directors accept such offer: ii an order is directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as made by any court claiming that he or she is or may be suffering from directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware board from meetings for six months and the board resolves that his of that information.
or her offi ce is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law  LLP have indicated their willingness from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from offi ce pursuant to continue in offi ce and a resolution that they be reappointed will to the Articles.
Powers of the directors Going concern The business of the Company will be managed by the board who may The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, the existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
to maintain the going concern basis in preparing the fi financial statements.
Shares held in the Employee Benefi t Trust By order of the board Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee Benefi t Trust the Trust holds shares in the Company and the benefi cial interest in those shares has not been transferred to a benefi ciary of the Trust, the trustee may not vote in relation to those shares at any meeting of shareholders of the Company.
Signifi cant agreements The following signifi cant agreements contain provisions entitling the Jane Smithard counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a Company Secretary change of control of the Company: 20 June 2012 On 1 December 2011, the Company entered into a $275m credit facility provided through a syndicated loan consortium comprising Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Clydesdale Bank plc to assist with the funding of the Return of Value and for general corporate purposes.
The business review does not contain any information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the view of the directors, there are no such arrangements.
Branches The Group continues to operate overseas branches in Denmark, Finland, Hong Kong, Mexico, Portugal, Sweden, the Peoples Republic of China and Spain.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
