Report of the Directors The role of the Board In this Report of the Directors, we describe how we govern the Company, who the Board are and what the Board does.
Who we are In addition, the Business review and strategy on pages The Board currently comprises the Chairman, one 12 to 36 and the Report on Directors Remuneration on executive Director, five independent non-executive pages 52 to 64 form part of this Report.
Directors and two other non-executive Directors who, like the Chairman, are appointees of the majority Corporate governance statement shareholder, City Developments Limited.
Each Director is expected to fulfil his duties for the benefit of all The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association corporate governance is observed throughout the Group, contain provisions concerning the appointment and and remains the responsibility of the whole Board.
Board is committed to maintaining high standards of business integrity and professionalism in all its activities, Directors biographies shown on pages 38 to 39, which and continues to support the highest standards in form part of this report, identify the Chairman, Senior corporate governance.
Independent Director, the Chairman of the Boards standing committees and other Directors considered by The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was the Board to be independent, having taken consideration compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate of the factors set out in Code provision B.
There Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting have been no significant changes in the Chairmans Council in June 2010 as described on pages 40 to 47 of external commitments since the last annual report.
this Report of the Directors.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council www.
Changes to the composition of the Board from 1 January org.
2012 are as follows: We will review during 2013 our compliance with the New Directors Date of appointment 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Sean Collins 1 September 2012 The Directors submit their report for the financial year Directors who retired Date of retirement ended 31 December 2012.
This Report of the Directors Richard Hartman 3 May 2012 is deemed to be the management report required to be Christopher Keljik 31 December 2012 published in accordance with DTR4.1.
Sean Collins, having been appointed as a Director by Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is the listed the Board during the year, will retire at the 2013 holding company for the Millennium & Copthorne group Annual General Meeting and will be proposed for reof companies: its shares are listed on the London appointment as required by the Articles of Association of Stock Exchange.
All of the other Directors will be proposed The principal activity of the Group is ownership and for re-appointment this year in accordance with the UK management of hotels around the world.
The Business review and strategy incorporates sections Details of the share interests of Directors are shown on covering financial, operating, risk factors and Non-GAAP pages 63 and 64.
No changes to these interests information for the year ended 31 December 2012 and occurred between the year end and the date of this is set out on pages 12 to 36.
form part of this Report, provide information about the Groups strategy, its businesses, the financial performance during the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and its likely development.
A description of the Groups business model is included on pages 12 and 13 as required by Code provision C. 1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
40 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Performance Report of the Directors Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information The role of the Board continued The Board meets up to ten times a year and has a schedule of matters reserved for its attention.
All Board meetings Directors receive detailed papers one week prior to The number of meetings of the Board, held during the Board and committee meetings.
Certain matters which year are shown below together with attendance details are reserved for the Board have been delegated to its of each Director.
standing committees with specific delegated authority.
Meetings Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Board Eligible to Directors attend Attended Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Committee Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 7 7 Wong Hong Ren 7 7 Shaukat Aziz 7 6 Committee activities are set out further in the reports of Ian Batey 7 4 each committees chairman which are deemed to be 1 Sean Collins 22 part of this report.
The terms of reference for these Nicholas George 7 7 committees are available, on request, from the Company 2 Richard Hartman 21 Secretary and on the Groups website at Christopher Keljik 7 7 www.
com corporate investor-centre Kwek Leng Peck 7 3 Kwek Eik Sheng 7 6 The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all standing Alexander Waugh 7 7 committees of the Board.
Notes: 1 Sean Collins joined the Board on 1 September 2012.
2 Richard Hartman stepped down from the Board at the AGM on 3 May 2012.
Reserved matters which require Board approval include: Ethics, group-wide business policies and practices Our role Strategy, management and long-term plans Overall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, Annual budgets which has responsibility, amongst other things, for Capital expenditure, acquisitions, significant property transactions setting strategy and ensuring that adequate resources and investments are available and leadership is provided to achieve the Major contracts and expenditure proposals Groups strategy.
Internal control systems, corporate governance, compliance and communication The Boards principal focus is on: The Board also oversees internal controls, operating and Strategy financial performance and reviews the risk register.
Investment Executive management is responsible to the Board for Oversight and control the Groups operational performance including: Corporate governance implementing Group strategy as determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control systems and risk management processes: monitoring operational performance against plans and targets and reporting to the Board any significant variances: maintaining an effective management team and succession planning.
A written statement defining the respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been agreed and approved by the Board.
41 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report of the Directors continued The Chairman s Promote the growth of the Group: s Develop the management team and establish a The Chairman provides leadership for the Board on all succession plan for key management appointments: aspects of its role.
His key duties are to: s Act on the feedback of the Chairman: s Formulate and set the strategic direction and s Be responsible for the day-to-day management of organisational structure of the Group, subject to the the Groups business and affairs and to ensure that Boards approval: all issues that arise are resolved in an efficient and s Set a clear vision for the Group: timely manner: and s Take the lead to appoint the Chief Executive Officer s Lead the management team to improve performance and following the appointment to mentor the Chief in every division.
Executive Officer as and when required: s Balance the interests of management and the Board as Role of the non-executive Directors well as the needs of shareholders and management: The majority of the Board is made up of independent s Act as a liaison between management and the non-executive Directors who have wide ranging Board as well as between the Company and its international experience at senior levels in areas of shareholders: finance, investment banking, fund management, media, s Manage communications and information brands and international affairs.
They provide strong, dissemination processes between the Company and independent judgement to the deliberations of the its shareholders and work closely with the Companys Board, particularly in the areas of strategy, finance public relations team to achieve this objective: and governance.
s Establish the agenda and manage Board meetings: Sean Collins, as the Senior Independent Director, is s Offer advice and tap the collective wisdom and available to meet with our institutional shareholders and experience of Board members: shareholder representative bodies and to discuss any s Take a proactive role in the appointment of matters where it would be inappropriate for discussions Directors and, following such appointments, oversee to be held with either the Chairman or the Chief the development of individual Directors: and Executive Officer.
He is also a sounding board for the Chairman and is an intermediary for other Board s Develop the top management team in particular members when necessary.
the Chief Executive Officer and establish a succession plan both for the Chairman and Chief Executive Independent non-executive Directors have rolling Officer positions.
contracts and appointments are subject to termination by either party giving one months notice.
Appointment The Chief Executive Officer and any subsequent re-appointment is subject at all times to the Articles of Association of the Company and The Chief Executive Officer has ultimate responsibility, any necessary shareholder ratification.
reporting to the Board, for the day-to-day running of the Group.
He is responsible for leading the management On appointment, each independent non-executive and the operational activities and performance of the Director receives a letter of appointment setting out Group, including the effective delivery of the strategy the terms of the appointment, including committee and the business plan, as agreed by the Board, while memberships, fees to be paid, matters such as managing the risks.
His duties are to: confidentiality of information, potential conflicts and share dealing restrictions.
s Receive the strategic vision of the Group from the Board of Directors and to find creative solutions to Training and information implement such strategic vision, develop the strategic plan, business plan and budget and deliver the same All Directors have access to the advice of the Company to the satisfaction of the Board: Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring the Board s Lead and act as an advocate for the Executive procedures and applicable rules and regulations are Management Committee: observed.
In addition, the Directors are able, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys s Oversee the execution of the strategic vision and expense.
There is the opportunity for non-executive plans, and assess the Groups performance in meeting Directors to meet separately with the Chairman.
them: 42 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Performance Report of the Directors Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Training and information continued The results will be discussed by the Board in late summer 2013.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is also responsible for ensuring that Directors The performance of executive and non-executive receive appropriate training at the Companys expense Directors is assessed annually by the Chairman.
During where specific expertise is required in the course the year, the Chairman and independent non-executive of the exercise of their duties.
All Directors receive a Directors met without the executive Directors in Board Compendium detailing matters relating to attendance.
Evaluation of the Chairman is conducted by Board procedures.
the independent non-executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has established agreed procedures for managing potential conflicts of interest.
These Indemnities procedures and any potential conflicts authorised in accordance with section 175 4 Companies Act 2006, The Company has provided each of its Directors with a as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, qualifying third-party indemnity, as defined in section 234 are reviewed by the Board at least annually.
In addition, the Company Board is satisfied that the procedures for managing has provided qualifying pension scheme indemnities to potential conflicts remain effective.
the Directors of Millennium & Copthorne Pension Trustee Limited which acts as trustee to the Groups UK Evaluation process pension plan.
These indemnities remain in force as at the date of this report.
During the year, the Company During the year, an independent externally facilitated has maintained cover for its Directors and Officers and Board evaluation was conducted by Linstock, with the those of its subsidiary companies under a Directors and Directors completing on-line questionnaires.
The Officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by evaluation process focused on key themes including: section 233 of the Companies Act 2006. s Board composition, expertise and dynamics.
Ethics and business conduct s Time management and Board support.
The Group has in place policies which outline the s The operation of Board committees.
standards of behaviour required of all employees when s Strategic oversight.
acting on the Groups behalf which include acting professionally, with honesty, integrity, objectivity and in s Risk management and internal controls.
compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory s Succession planning and human resource requirements.
The Board of Directors has implemented management.
an anti-bribery policy which prohibits the offering, the giving, the solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe, A report was produced identifying a number of priorities whether cash or other inducement.
The Board discussed the procedures are in place to enable employees to raise report at the Board meeting in September 2012 and concerns about any activity they consider to be unlawful, agreed on the following actions: is a breach of authority, falls below accepted standards Key areas Actions or practice, amounts to improper conduct or could Focus on core issues A programme has been established damage the Groups reputation.
It is the Companys and for the Board to receive regular the Groups policy to agree the terms of payment with presentations from senior executives suppliers at the commencement of the trading or Time management Agendas have been prioritised with greater focus on policy matters contractual relationship and to operate within such terms subject to satisfactory completion of the suppliers Strategy and people Attention is being given to articulating clearly the Groups strategic direction, obligations.
It does not follow any particular guidelines reviewing the culture and ensuring the established by third parties.
The effect of the Groups right individuals are in place to drive the payment policy is that its trade creditors at the financial strategy year-end represent 24 days 2011: 24 days.
At the year An internal questionnaire for the next Board evaluation end, the Company had nil trade creditors 2011: nil.
will be distributed in June 2013 which will include questions to assess progress against the above actions.
43 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report of the Directors continued Financial risk management Corporate social responsibility Details of the Groups wider approach to managing its An indication of the Groups financial risk management CSR can be found on pages 29 to 31 which include objectives in respect of the use of financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk, interest rate risk details of charitable donations made during the year.
The CSR report is deemed to be part of this Report.
The and foreign currency risk is set out in Our risks on pages Board takes regular account of the significance of social, 24 to 28, and in note 22 to the consolidated financial environmental and ethical matters to the business of the statements.
Company and identifies value arising from those matters as well as opportunities to enhance value that may arise Going concern from them.
To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies Information on the principal risks and uncertainties that in respect of health, safety, and the environment, the Group faces throughout its global operations are Wong Hong Ren, in his capacity as Chief Executive included in Our risks on pages 24 to 28.
The financial Officer, has been identified as the Board member position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position responsible for these areas.
and debt facilities are described in Business review financial on pages 32 to 36.
In addition, note 22 to the Employees consolidated financial statements sets out the Groups We operate in 20 countries and value highly the rich policies and processes for measuring and managing risk ethnic and cultural diversity of our people by nurturing a from its use of financial instruments in relation to credit working environment that recognises, develops and risk, liquidity risk and market risk both currency and values people with different views, styles and interest rate-related.
Further details of the Groups cash approaches.
balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our policy is to provide equality of opportunity for all employees without discrimination and continues to In assessing whether the Group is a going concern, encourage the employment, training and advancement the Directors follow a review process which is of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and consistent with the principles set out in the guidance aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe published by the Financial Reporting Council: Going working environment.
Suitable employment would, if Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK possible, be found for any employee who becomes Companies 2009. disabled during the course of employment.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared Further details on employee involvement are included for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of in the CSR report on pages 29 to 31. approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current market Risk management conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the Significant short and long-term risks have been identified current committed debt facilities and show continued and assessed and the Board believes it has received compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, adequate information to ensure that the Company has management has considered various mitigating actions effective systems in place for managing the Groups key that could be taken in the event that market conditions risks.
The Groups significant risk factors are included are worse than their current assessment.
Such on pages 24 to 28. measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
44 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Performance Report of the Directors Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Internal control system The main features of the Groups internal control framework are: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, including the Companys financial s The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed reporting process and the Groups process for by the Board, which sets business objectives for the preparation of consolidated accounts, and for monitoring Group.
Annual plans and performance targets for each its effectiveness.
In establishing this system, the region are set by the executive management team Directors have considered the nature of the Groups and reviewed by the Board on a geographical basis in business, with regard to the risks to which that particular the light of overall objectives: and business is exposed, the likelihood of such risks s Within the financial and overall objectives for occurring, their potential impact and the costs of the Group, agreed by the Board, the day-to-day protecting against them.
However, such a system is management is delegated to the Chief Executive designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Officer and executive management.
The executive failure to achieve business objectives and can only management team receives a monthly summary of provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against the results from the business and carries out regular material misstatement.
The Groups significant risk operational reviews with business managers to ensure factors are included in Our risks on pages 24 to 28. appropriate pursuit of the overall objectives and The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Turnbull management of the primary risks of the Group.
guidance, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and has been in place for the year under review, and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of internal controls is delegated to executive management.
The effectiveness of the operation of the internal control system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where appropriate, by the Companys external auditor, who report to management and to the Audit Committee.
In addition, responsibility is delegated to executive management to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control in managing identified risks as established by the Board.
The internal audit department reviews the effectiveness of key internal controls as part of its standard work programme, and individual reports are issued to appropriate senior management.
These reports are summarised and distributed to the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, senior management of the Group and the external auditor.
They are subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee, which ensures that, where necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective action are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
45 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report of the Directors continued Shareholders and Annual General Meeting Substantial shareholdings Share capital As at 21 February 2013, the Company had received details of the following material shareholdings in its The issued share capital of the Company, together with issued share capital: details of the movements in the Companys share capital during the year, are shown in note 29 to the % of issued Number of shares share capital consolidated financial statements.
City Developments Limited 179,556,624 55.33 Schroders plc 15,490,857 4.77 Details of shares issued pursuant to the Groups share- # Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 16,352,673 5.04 based incentive schemes are shown in the notes to the Prudential plc 12,141,915 3.74 consolidated financial statements on pages 124 to 126. the interests of Schroders plc include the notifiable interest of:- Rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Schroder Investment Management ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Limited 15,151,069 4.67 Association, a copy of which can be obtained from the interests of Prudential plc include the notifiable interest of: Companies House.
A copy is also available on request The Prudential Assurance Company 12,127,405 3.74 from the Company Secretary and on the Groups Limited website at # the interests of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited include the www.
com corporate investor-centre notifiable interests of: Aberdeen Global Asian Smaller Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association Companies fund 9,802,172 3.02 can be made by Special resolution of the shareholders.
Save as disclosed below, no changes to the material At the Companys annual general meeting in May 2012, shareholdings listed have been reported to the Company the Directors were authorised to allot shares up to a between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report.
nominal amount of 31,756,392 and to allot such shares As at 31 December 2012, the notified material interests up to this nominal amount in connection with a rights of Aberdeen Asset Management plc were as follows: issue and otherwise to allot shares for cash on a non preemptive basis up to a nominal amount of 4,763,458.
In addition, the Company was authorised to make market Number of % of issued shares share capital purchases of up to 10% of the Companys issued share Aberdeen Asset Management plc 15,451,769 4.76 capital.
All of these authorities remained in effect as at 31 December 2012.
Communication with shareholders The voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares are not restricted and there are no restrictions on General presentations are made after the announcement the transfer of the Companys shares.
None of the of final and half-yearly results.
There is a programme of Companys shares carries special rights with regard to meetings with institutional shareholders to review the control of the Company.
Neither the Company nor its Groups performance and prospects.
In addition, the Directors are aware of any agreements between Senior Independent Director has meetings with a range shareholders that could result in restrictions on the of major shareholders during the year and other nontransfer of shares or on voting rights.
executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders.
46 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Performance Report of the Directors Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Communication with shareholders continued Annual General Meeting At general meetings, there is the opportunity for all The annual general meeting will be held at 10.00 am on shareholders to question the Chairman and other Thursday, 2 May 2013 at the Millennium Hotel London Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP.
The A detailed explanation of each item of non-routine Company prepares separate resolutions on each business to be considered at the annual general meeting substantially separate issue put to shareholders and is included with the Notice of Meeting.
does not combine resolutions together inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available for By order of the Board inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings and the Annual Report is laid before the shareholders at the Alan Scott annual general meeting.
Notice of the annual general Company Secretary meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at 21 February 2013 least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting, and the Company encourages all shareholders to make positive use of the Companys annual general meeting for communication with the Board.
Auditor In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Statement of the Directors as to disclosure of information to the auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
47 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
