A global hospitality company We operate 110 hotels in 20 countries, offering over 11 million accommodation nights to our guests every year.
Our properties are located in some of the most valuable tourist and business destinations in the world, from New York and Chicago, to London and Paris, to Beijing, Hong Kong and Singapore.
Asia With 23 hotels providing over 9,500 rooms, our Asian properties make up over 40% of our business.
We are present in nine major Asian cities, including the great trading centres of Singapore and Hong Kong, and the capital cities of China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan and Thailand.
3.5 million Available room nights 1 1 2 Europe Our European operations have 23 hotels with over 5,000 rooms in the UK, France and Germany, representing just under a quarter of the Groups business.
London is our most important European city, where we operate 7 hotels in the prestigious West End locations of Mayfair, 3.4 million Knightsbridge, Chelsea and Kensington.
We operate an additional 14 hotels under management contracts in the Available room nights Middle East.
3 4 2 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 P P Perf erf erformance ormance ormance A global hospitality compan A global hospitality compan A global hospitality company y y Governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information 1 We offer almost a million room nights per year to 5 New York: Our third major gateway city, offering over Singapore's growing number of overseas visitors.
2 Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel Singapore within 6 Designed by renowned architects Rissman and easy reach of the Central Business District and many Hirscheld and built in 1927, the historic Millennium of Singapores lively waterfront dining and Knickerbocker Hotel Chicago is a city landmark and the entertainment venues.
3 London: our most important gateway city in Europe, 7 Copthorne Hotel Wellington Oriental Bay overlooks the offering over 900,000 room nights per year.
bay in New Zealands capital.
4 Millennium Hotel London Mayfair: our agship hotel in 8 Millennium Hotel Queenstown a four-star plus hotel the UK capital.
that captures the essence of a truly inspiring region.
United States New York is our third major gateway city in addition to Singapore and London, with 3 hotels on Manhattan Island.
We have a further 16 hotels in other parts of the USA, including major centres such as Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston and Minneapolis, with a total national room count of over 7,000 rooms.
The USA represents 2.6 million more than a quarter of our business.
Available room nights 5 6 Australasia Australasia is our smallest region, making up less than 10% of the business and comprising 31 hotels providing over 4,600 rooms.
Our hotels are situated in New Zealand, where we are present in all of the major cities on both islands.
The majority of our properties are leisure 1.7 million destinations.
Available room nights 7 8 3 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
