Board of Directors 12 1 Kwek Leng Beng 2 Wong Hong Ren Chairman and Chairman Age: 72 Group Chief Executive Officer Age: 61 of the Nominations Committee Committees: N Wong Hong Ren joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc as a Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne non-executive Director at the flotation of the Group in 1996 and has Hotels plc since its incorporation.
been an Executive Director since April 2001.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Company on 27 June 2011.
Mr Wong is He is the Executive Chairman of the Hong Leong Group of Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne New Zealand Limited and CDL Companies in Singapore, and City Developments Limited.
He is also Investments New Zealand Limited, both of which are listed on the Chairman and Managing Director of Hong Leong Finance Limited and New Zealand stock exchange.
He is also the non-executive Chairman City e-Solutions Limited and the Chairman of Hong Leong Asia Ltd. of M&C REIT Management Limited which manages CDL Hospitality Mr Kweks achievements have also captured the attention of the Real Estate Investment Trust, which is part of the Singapore-listed academic institutions.
He was conferred: CDL Hospitality Trusts.
Honorary Doctorate of Business Administration in Hospitality from 3 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz Johnson & Wales University Rhode Island, US, where students have an opportunity to pursue career education in business, Independent Age: 63 hospitality, culinary arts or technology: Honorary Doctorate from Non-Executive Director Committees: R N Oxford Brookes University UK whose citation traced how Mr Kwek, Shaukat Aziz was elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan and served who joined the family business in the early 1960s, had gone on to from 2004 2007, following five years as Finance Minister from establish an international reputation for his leadership of the Hong 1999.
Leong Group, as well as being an active supporter of higher education in Singapore.
After graduating from Gordon College, Rawalpindi in 1967, Mr. Aziz gained a MBA degree from the Institute of Business Administration, Mr Kwek also serves as a Member of the INSEAD East Asia Council.
An internship at Citibank marked the beginning France-based INSEAD is one of the worlds leading and largest of a 30 year career in global finance, encompassing roles in Pakistan, graduate business schools which bring together people, cultures and Greece, United States, United Kingdom, Malaysia, Philippines, ideas from around the world.
Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Singapore.
As Executive Vice President, he Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property investment and held several senior management positions in Citibank including head development, hotel ownership and management, financial services of institutional banking for Central Eastern Europe, the Middle East and industrial enterprises.
Today, he sits on the flagship of a multiand Africa and later for Asia Pacific, followed by Chief Executive of billion empire worth over US$20b in diversified premium assets the banks global wealth management business.
worldwide and stocks traded on six of the worlds stock markets.
He Having presided over impressive economic growth in his country, he currently heads a worldwide staff strength of over 40,000 across a offers an expert view and is a frequent speaker on the challenges range of businesses in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe and facing the world including structural reforms, diplomacy, geopolitics North America.
Mr Kwek also played a pivotal role in Las Vegas and security.
He is a member of several boards and advisory boards Sands Corporations successful bid for Singapores high profile of various commercial and non-profit entities around the world.
Integrated Resorts project at Marina Bay.
4 Ian Batey At the Securities Investors Association Singapore SIAS Investors Choice Awards in October 2012, Mr Kwek as Executive Chairman of Independent Age: 77 City Developments Limited, together with Mr Kwek Leng Joo as Non-Executive Director Managing Director of City Developments Limited, emerged joint winners as Partners in the Office of the CEO in the Brendan Wood Ian Batey was appointed to the Board in August 2011.
An International SIAS TopGun CEO Designation Award.
This award is accomplished brand specialist, he launched his advertising agency, accorded to CEOs who are best in class rated by shareholders.
Batey Ads, in Singapore in 1972.
Under his leadership, Batey Ads became South East Asias largest independent advertising group, responsible for the development of many iconic Asian brands including Singapore Airlines and Raffles Hotel.
The agency has since become part of Grey Singapore, a subsidiary of WPP Plc.
He has been widely recognised for his contribution to the advertising industry and to the wider community, culminating in 1999 with the first Lifetime Achievement Award to be bestowed by the Institute of Advertising Singapore.
38 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Performance Board of Directors Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information 3 4 567 8 9 5 Sean Collins 8 Kwek Leng Peck Senior Independent Age: 62 Non-Executive Director Age: 56 Non-Executive Director and Committees: A R N Committees: N Chairman of the Audit Committee Kwek Leng Peck joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc prior Sean Collins was appointed to the Board in September 2012.
A to the flotation of the Group.
He holds directorships on most of the chartered accountant, he was formerly a senior audit and advisory listed companies within the Hong Leong Group, including City partner at KPMG, where he had worked since 1972.
From 2009 to Developments Limited, Hong Leong Finance Limited and China 2012, Mr Collins was Head of Markets, Asia Pacific, responsible for Yuchai International Limited.
He also serves as an Executive Director the firms business development in the Asia Pacific region.
He also for Hong Leong Asia Limited and is the non-executive Chairman of led the Global Communications and Media practice for over a Tasek Corporation Berhad.
Mr Collins has deep and extensive experience of corporate 9 Alexander Waugh governance, financial reporting and other corporate disciplines, gained during many years as lead partner for a large number of Independent Non-Executive Age: 49 major international clients.
He is a Governor and Deputy Chairman of Director and Chairman Committees: A R N More House School in Surrey, England.
of the Remuneration Committee 6 Nicholas George Alexander Waugh was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He is a world renowned author, literary critic and composer.
He has Independent Age: 59 commercial experience in event management, the media industry Non-Executive Director Committees: A R and is the founder of a successful publishing business.
He is also founding director and Chairman of Xebras Management Limited, Nicholas George was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is a Director of LGT Capital Partners UK the digital media company.
Notably in 2003, Mr George was a founding partner of KGR Capital, a leading Asian Fund of Funds Specialist that was sold to LGT in 2008.
He currently holds the position of Chairman at euNetworks Limited and also sits on the Board of GK Goh Holdings Limited: both companies are listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange.
In addition, he is a Director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He has over 30 years of experience in investment banking and was a Managing Director of JP Morgan Securities previously Jardine Fleming in Asia from 1993 to 2002 and a Managing Director of HSBC Securities in Asia from 2002 to 2003.
7 Kwek Eik Sheng Non-Executive Director Age: 31 Kwek Eik Sheng was appointed to the Board in May 2011.
He has been with the Hong Leong Group since 2006, before joining City Developments Limited in 2009, where he is currently Head of Corporate Development.
He holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine and a MPhil in Finance from Judge Business School, Cambridge University.
Committees A Member of the Audit Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee N Member of the Nominations Committee 39 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
