Doug Evans, aged 50 a a Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Company Secretary & General Counsel Appointed as Interim Non-Executive Chairman Alistair was appointed Chief Executive in Appointed to the Board in October 2011 in July 2011, Bob became Executive Chairman October 2012.
Alistair has more than 20 years having held the position of Company Secretary in October 2011 and reverted to Non-Executive experience working on some of the UKs best & General Counsel since he joined Mitchells & Chairman in November 2012 following the known brands in the pub, drinks and consumer Butlers in January 2011.
Doug was previously appointment of Alistair Darby.
Bob has over sectors, including roles with Mars Confectionery, at Royal Mail where he was Group General 30 years of extensive food and beverage Wolverhampton and Dudley Breweries and Counsel.
Prior to this he held Company Secretary experience with a particular focus on food-led, United Distillers.
He joined Marstons PLC & Corporate Legal Director positions at Exel plc managed restaurants and pubs.
He is currently in 1997 and has held senior operational and and Engen Limited.
Senior Independent Director of Britvic plc strategic roles, including leadership of its and Chairman of David Lloyd Leisure Limited.
branded and suburban managed pubs, its Doug will step down from the Board at the He was previously a main board director of beer division and its tenanted and leased pub conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
S&N plc in the role of Chairman and Managing company.
He became a Board member of Director of the Scottish & Newcastle retail Marstons PLC in 2003 and was appointed division.
He has also been Chairman of Regent Chief Operating Officer in 2011.
Tim Jones, aged 49 a Inns, Chairman of Park Resorts, Chairman of Finance Director Next Generation Clubs, Managing Director Tim was appointed Finance Director in October of Beefeater Restaurants, one of Whitbreads 2010.
Prior to joining the Company, he held the pub restaurant brands and a director of position of Group Finance Director for Interserve The Restaurant Group.
Previously, he was Director of Financial Operations at Novar and held senior financial roles both in the UK and overseas in the logistics company, Exel plc.
Tim is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and obtained an MA in Economics at Cambridge University.
1 2 3 4 22 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.
Eddie Irwin, aged 53 Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in October Appointed as Deputy Chairman in July 2011, Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 2010, Douglas is a Managing Director of Ron is a Managing Director of Tavistock Group in March 2012, Eddie is a nominee of Tavistock Group and is a nominated shareholder and is a nominated shareholder representative Elpida Limited, a significant shareholder in representative of Piedmont Inc.
He has 20 years of Piedmont Inc.
He was previously Chief Mitchells & Butlers.
Eddie is Finance Director of marketing experience, previously serving Financial Officer of Tamar Capital Partners of Coolmore, a leading thoroughbred as Chairman and CEO of Publicis New York, and Group Finance Director of Kenmore, both bloodstock breeder with operations in Ireland, General Manager of J. Walter Thompson New property investment and management groups.
He is a fellow member York and Chief Marketing Officer at Consumer From 2005 to 2008 he was Group Finance of both the Association of Chartered Certified News and Business Channel CNBC.
Director of The Belhaven Group plc, a listed Accountants and the Institute of Chartered pub retailing, brewing and drink distribution Secretaries and Administrators.
Prior to that he held a number of senior finance roles including Group Finance Director of a listed shipping and logistics group, and trained as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
5 6 7 Key a A member of the Executive Committee Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 23
