Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key performance indicators It is a key principle of the Group to align the It should be noted, however, that this does not interests of the Directors and other employees represent an exhaustive list of the measures with those of its shareholders.
Executive employed to monitor Executive performance, remuneration therefore includes measures with a variety of other methods including linked to certain of the KPIs below.
guest and employee satisfaction, health and safety and corporate social responsibility Full details of the various schemes in operation metrics used.
These are discussed in more are shown from page 34 to 40 in the Report on detail in the Business review on pages 2 to 7, Directors remuneration.
In FY 2012 Mitchells the Corporate social responsibility review & Butlers implemented and monitored its on pages 8 to 13 and the Financial review performance against its strategy through on pages 14 to 16. three KPIs, the performance of which are shown below.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth The sales this year compared to the sales in Our operational and marketing plans have the previous year of all UK managed sites delivered like-for-like sales growth of 2.1% that were trading in the two periods being in FY 2012 compared with the prior year compared, expressed as a percentage.
EPS growth Adjusted earnings per share for the year 52 week adjusted operating profit and compared to last year, as reported in the adjusted EPS were up 1.0% and 6.4% financial statements, expressed as a respectively in FY 2012 as a result of sales percentage.
growth and lower tax and interest charges: offset by the impact of inflationary cost increases and investment in service and amenity down 8.7% and 5.7% in FY 2011.
Incremental return Incremental return is the growth in annual The performance in this area remains above on expansionary capital site EBITDA expressed as a percentage of the our cost of capital.
Pre-tax EBITDA returns of associated capital investment for sites having 17% are being achieved on the expansionary received expansionary investment over the capital projects carried out over the last two last two financial years.
For sites which years 21% as at FY 2011. have not been trading for a full 12 months, incremental return is estimated based on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
Expansionary capital is capital invested to increase the trading area of a site or to materially change the customer offer.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 17
