Directors report Principal activities Interests in voting rights The Boards responsibilities in Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator As at the date of this report, the Company was respect of the Company include: of managed restaurants and pubs and, as at aware of the following significant holdings of 29 September 2012, had an estate of 1,638 sites voting rights 3% or more in its shares: Determining the overall business and including 62 leased and franchised sites and commercial strategy % of Identifying the long-term objectives 38 restaurants in Germany.
Ordinary share Reviewing the annual operating budget Shareholder shares capital and financial plans Share capital Determining the basis of allocation of capital Piedmont Inc. 107,854,119 26.26 Direct holding The Companys issued ordinary share capital as Considering all matters relating to a major Elpida Group Ltd 92,090,885 22.43 Direct holding change of policy at 29 September 2012 comprised a single class Smoothfield Holding Limited 14,185,101 3.45 Direct holding of ordinary shares of which 409,923,805 shares For our latest financial information go to: were in issue and listed on the London Stock www.
com investors Using the total voting rights figure announced to Exchange 24 September 2011 409,467,418 the London Stock Exchange on 31 October 2012 shares.
Of the issued share capital, 429 shares of 410,649,762, being the Companys issued share The Directors present their report and the were held in Treasury and the Companys capital, excluding the 429 shares held in Treasury.
audited financial statements for the year ended employee share trusts held 2,131,456 shares.
A review of the businesses, Details of movements in the issued share Directors activities and future developments of the capital can be found in note 21 to the financial Details of the Directors as at 26 November 2012 Company and its subsidiaries is given on statements on page 71.
Each share carries and their biographies are shown on pages 22 pages 1 to 20 which, together with the the right to one vote at general meetings of the and 23.
The Directors at 29 September 2012 Corporate governance statement and Audit Company.
Participants in the Share Incentive and their interests in shares are shown on Committee report, are incorporated by Plan SIP may complete a Form of Instruction page 40.
Changes to the Board of Directors reference into this report and, accordingly, which is used by the SIP Trustee as the basis for during the year and subsequent to the year end should be read as part of this report.
All issued shares are fully are set out in full in the Corporate governance paid up and carry no additional obligations or statement on page 29.
Details of the Groups policy on addressing special rights.
There are no restrictions on risks are given on pages 18 to 20 and 30 to 31 transfers of shares in the Company, or on the The powers of the Companys Directors are set and details about financial instruments are exercise of voting rights attached to them, other out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
than those which may from time to time be accordance with the UK Corporate Governance These sections include information about applicable under existing laws and regulations.
Code, the Directors have made a commitment trends and factors likely to affect the future to retire at each AGM and offer themselves for development and performance of the During the year, shares with a nominal value re-election.
At the 2013 AGM the Company is Groups business.
The Company undertakes of 38,983 were allotted under all-employee seeking to alter its Articles of Association to no obligation to update forward-looking schemes as permitted under Section 549 reflect this commitment.
No securities were issued in connection with a rights issue during the year.
Under a Deed of Appointment between Key performance indicators for the Groups Piedmont Inc. and the Company, Piedmont Inc. business are set out on page 17.
The Company is not aware of any agreements has the right to appoint two shareholder between shareholders that restrict the transfer directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% or more This report has been prepared for, and only for, of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
of the issued share capital of the Company, and the members of the Company as a body, and the right to appoint one shareholder director to no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, Interests of the Directors and their immediate the Board whilst it owns more than 16% of the employees, agents or advisers do not accept or families in the issued share capital of the Company but less than 22%.
In the event that assume responsibility to any other person to Company as at the year end are on page 40 Piedmont Inc. owns less than 16% of the whom this document is shown or into whose of the Report on Directors remuneration.
Company any such shareholder directors hands it may come and any such responsibility would be required to resign immediately.
or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Dividends No final dividend will be paid in respect of the year ended 29 September 2012 2011 nil.
No interim dividend was paid during the year 2011 nil.
24 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors indemnity Essential contracts or arrangements Employment policies As permitted by the Articles of Association, The Company has a number of contractual The Group employed an average of 41,178 the Directors excluding any alternate Directors agreements with suppliers in support of its people in 2012 2011 40,728.
Through our have the benefit of an indemnity which is a business activities.
Whilst the loss of some diversity and equal opportunities policy, the qualifying third-party indemnity provision as of these arrangements may cause temporary Company aims to provide an environment defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act disruption, none are considered to be essential which enables job candidates with disabilities 2006.
The indemnity was in force throughout to the business of Mitchells & Butlers.
to perform better by seeking, where possible, the last financial year, and is currently in force.
Through our The Company also purchased and maintained Change of control provisions online recruitment system, candidates can throughout the financial year Directors and There are no significant agreements which inform us direct about their disability, so that Officers liability insurance in respect of itself contain provisions entitling other parties to we can make adjustments, enabling them to and its Directors.
No indemnity is provided for exercise termination or other rights in the perform to the best of their ability on the Companys auditor.
event of a change of control of the Company.
Conflicts of interest There are no provisions in the Directors or Should any employee of the Company The Companys Articles of Association permit employees service agreements providing for become disabled during their time with us, the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, authorise compensation for loss of office or employment we actively make adjustments, including situations where a Director has an interest that occurring because of a takeover.
arranging appropriate training, to keep the conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the employee with us.
We take steps both to interests of the Company Situational The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Share increase the effectiveness of employees with Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system Incentive Plan will invite participants on whose disabilities and to ensure they are in a suitable in place for Directors to declare Situational behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote in role.
A more detailed account can be found in Conflicts to be considered for authorisation respect of those shares, and if there is an offer our separately published Social Responsibility by those Directors who have no interest in the for the shares or other transaction which would Review 2012 at www.
com responsibility matter being considered.
In deciding whether lead to a change of control of the Company, to authorise a Situational Conflict, the nonparticipants may direct it to accept the offer or Employee communication conflicted Directors are required to act in the agree to the transaction.
The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers communicates with its way they consider would be most likely to Mitchells & Butlers Employee Benefit Trust may, employees on a frequent basis and in a number promote the success of the Company for the having consulted with the Company, vote or of ways to suit their different working patterns.
benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose abstain from voting any shares it holds or accept This includes: limits or conditions when giving authorisation, or reject an offer relating to shares in any way it or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
sees fit, and it may take all or any of the following a corporate intranet website: The Board believes that the systems it has in matters into account: the long term interests of a dedicated external website for retail place for reporting and considering Situational beneficiaries, the non-financial interests of employees: Conflicts continue to operate effectively.
beneficiaries, the interests of beneficiaries in email news alerts: their capacity as employees or former employee social media groups: Related party transactions employees, the interests of future beneficiaries line manager briefings: Internal controls are in place to ensure that any and considerations of a local, moral, ethical, a monthly magazine poster, Whats Cooking, related party transactions involving Directors or environmental or social nature.
for the retail estate: and their connected persons are carried out on an communications forums or road shows held arms length basis and are properly recorded.
The rules of certain of the Companys share by function or brand across the Company.
plans include provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, as set Details of the financial and economic factors out below.
affecting the performance of the Company are shared with all employees at the appropriate time using the methods listed above.
Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction Share plan Provision in the event of a takeover Long Term Incentive Plan Awards vest pro rata to performance and time elapsed, alternatively participants may be allowed or required by the Company to exchange their awards Performance Restricted Share Plan Awards vest pro rata to performance and time elapsed and lapse six months later Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan Bonus shares may be released or exchanged for shares in the new controlling company Executive Share Option Plan Options may be exercised within six months of a change of control Sharesave Plan Options may be exercised within six months of a change of control Share Incentive Plan Free shares may be released or exchanged for shares in the new controlling company It is proposed that the Performance Restricted Share Plan, Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan, Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan will be renewed at the 2013 AGM as their 10 year life will be expiring in April 2013 see the Report on Directors remuneration for further information.
The rules of the renewed share plans will contain similar provisions regarding a takeover or reconstruction of the Company as set out above.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 25 Directors report continued We provide opportunities for employees to give Policy on payment of suppliers Going concern their feedback to the Company in a number of Mitchells & Butlers plc is a holding company The financial statements which appear on ways, from team or shift meetings in restaurants and has no trade creditors.
pages 43 to 82 have been prepared on a going and pubs, discussion groups with Executive concern basis.
The Directors have reviewed Committee members, annual surveys for all The policy of its principal operating subsidiaries is the Groups objectives, policies and processes employees and the Mitchells & Butlers annual to agree particular terms with major suppliers and for managing its capital: its financial risk Business Forum.
Business Forum representatives to abide by those terms, subject to satisfactory management objectives: its financial instruments collect questions from employees across the performance by the supplier.
Amounts owed to and hedging activities: and its exposures to Company and put them to a special Executive other suppliers are settled in the month following credit risk and liquidity risk.
The questions and answers are that in which the subsidiaries receive a valid financing is based on securitised debt and, published in Whats Cooking.
The average number of days the within this context, a robust review has been Group takes to pay an invoice is 40 days undertaken of projected performance against Employee engagement 2011 38 days.
As a result of this Whats the Big Idea?, is a company-wide review the Directors have a reasonable initiative where employees are encouraged to Charitable donations expectation that the Group has adequate submit their ideas for improving the business, and charitable activity resources to continue in operational existence environmentally, financially or otherwise, via The Company continues to support community for the foreseeable future.
See note 1 on our dedicated employee website.
initiatives and charitable causes, full details of page 48. which are given on page 12 in the Corporate Our retail teams participate in e-learning, social responsibility section of this Annual report.
Additional information for shareholders covering food, health and fire safety, Following the implementation of the EU Challenge 21 and Intermediate Food Hygiene.
Political donations Takeovers Directive into UK law, the Company The Company made no political donations is required to provide certain information for Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage during the year and intends to maintain its policy shareholders.
The information required is greater employee involvement in the Groups of not making such payments.
It will, however, included elsewhere within this Directors report.
It as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent In addition the Company is required to inform operates two HMRC approved all-employee breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at shareholders that the Companys Articles of plans, which are the Sharesave Plan and the its 2013 AGM to make limited donations or Association may be amended by special Share Incentive Plan which includes incur limited political expenditure, although resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Company also it has no intention of using the authority.
operates four other plans on a selective basis, Annual General Meeting which are the Performance Restricted Share Funding and liquidity risk The notice convening the Annual General Plan, the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan, In order to ensure that the Groups long term Meeting is contained in a circular sent to the Executive Share Option Plan and the Long funding strategy is aligned with its strategic shareholders with this report and includes Term Incentive Plan.
Further details on the objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly full details of the resolutions proposed.
plans are set out in the Report on Directors assesses the maturity profile of the Groups remuneration.
It is intended that both the debt, alongside the prevailing financial Auditor all-employee share plans, the Performance projections and three-year plan.
This enables Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to Restricted Share Plan and the Short Term it to ensure that funding levels are appropriate continue in office as auditor of the Company Deferred Incentive Plan will be renewed at to support the Groups plans.
and its reappointment will be put to the AGM in 2013 so grants of awards under shareholders at the AGM.
those plans can continue to be paid in FY 2013 The current funding arrangements of the see the Report on Directors remuneration for Group consist primarily of the securitised notes Post-balance sheet events further information.
issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and There are no post-balance sheet events associated liquidity facility.
During the year, the Company has remained regarding these arrangements is included in within its headroom limits for the issue of new note 17.
The terms of the securitisation contain Disclosure of information to auditor shares for share plans as set out in the rules a number of financial and operational covenants.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as of the above plans.
The Company uses an Compliance with these covenants is monitored the Directors are aware, there is no relevant employee benefit trust to acquire shares in the by Group treasury.
audit information as defined by Section market when appropriate to satisfy share awards 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which in order to manage headroom under the plan The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast the Companys auditor is unaware and each rules.
A total of 350,000 shares in the Company covering a six-week period and an annual cash Director has taken all steps that ought to were purchased by the employee benefit trust forecast by period.
These forecasts are have been taken to make themselves aware during FY 2012. reviewed on a daily basis and used to manage of any relevant audit information and to the investment and borrowing requirements establish that the Companys auditor is of the Group.
A combination of cash pooling aware of that information.
and zero balancing agreements are in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position is By order of the Board maintained.
Committed facilities outside of the securitisation are sized to ensure that the Group Doug Evans can meet its medium-term anticipated cash Director & Company Secretary flow requirements.
26 November 2012 26 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012
