DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance The Mondi Group Mondi is an international packaging and paper Group, with production operations across 30 countries and revenue of s5.8 billion in 2012.
The Groups key operations are located in central Europe, Russia and South Africa and as at the end of 2012, Mondi employed 25,700 people.
Mondi Group is fully integrated across the packaging and paper value chain, from the growing of wood and the production of pulp and paper packaging paper and uncoated Throughout this report, all sustainable fine paper, to the conversion of packaging paper into corrugated packaging, industrial bags, development-related information has been extrusion coatings and release liner.
Mondi is also a supplier of innovative consumer reported on according to the scope and packaging solutions, advanced films and hygiene products components.
boundary of Mondis sustainable development reporting, and therefore excludes our recent Mondi Group has a dual listed company structure, with a primary listing on the JSE Limited acquisition of Nordenia and the Duropack for Mondi Limited under the ticker code MND and a premium listing on the London Stock operations in Germany and the Czech Exchange for Mondi plc, under the ticker code MNDI.
The Group has been recognised for Republic from the 2012 data.
its sustainability through its inclusion in the FTSE4Good Global, European and UK Index Series since 2008 and the JSEs Socially Responsible Investment SRI Index since 2007.
The Group was also included in the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP FTSE 350 Carbon SSFIR SD For the scope and boundary of our Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI for the third year and in CDPs FTSE 350 Carbon sustainable development reporting go to www.
com sd12 Performance Leadership Index CPLI for the first time in 2012.
Group structure Packaging Paper  Containerboard  Kraft paper Fibre Packaging  Corrugated packaging  Industrial bags Europe &  Extrusion coatings International  Release liner Division E&I Consumer Packaging  Consumer goods packaging  Advanced films and components Uncoated Fine Paper  Uncoated fine paper  Forests  Containerboard South Africa  Pulp  Newsprint Division MSAD  Uncoated fine paper Mondi Group 1 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
