DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance DLC executive committee and company secretaries The DLC executive committee comprises the chief executive officer David Hathorn chairman, the chief financial officer Andrew King, the chief executive officer of the Europe & International Division Peter Oswald and other senior members of management as detailed below.
John Lindahl Ron Traill Philip Laubscher Carol Hunt John Lindahl, 53 Group technical director Appointed: August 2011 Committees: executive Qualifications: graduated in pulp and paper engineering from the Technical University of Helsinki in 1985, and an MBA from Jyvaskyla University from 1996 Experience: between 1985 and 2000 had an extensive career in the forest industry working in different operational managerial positions in Finland, United States and France in companies including M-real, Myllykoski and UPM.
At UPM he then moved on to tasks within corporate technology and investment co-ordination.
From the industry he moved on to consulting and engineering company Pyry where he has held different executive positions in the forest industry business group being involved in advisory services, pre-engineering studies and major implementation projects for the global Pulp and Paper Industry until 2011.
External appointments: none Ron Traill, 58 Chief executive officer: South Africa Division Appointed: January 2008 Committees: executive Qualifications: graduated in mechanical engineering and management from Dundee Colleges in Scotland in 1980 Experience: began his career as an industrial engineer with DRG Packaging Group, working in its Scottish paper mill.
Went on to hold a succession of posts within the company, leading ultimately to his appointment as general manager.
Following DRGs acquisition by Sappi in 1990, he worked for 10 years in a number of general management roles.
Has also held senior operational positions with Fletcher Challenge and with Tullis Russell, the UKs largest independent paper mill.
Joined Mondi in 2003 as managing director of the tet i pulp and paper mill in the Czech Republic, also assuming responsibility for the Mondi packaging paper business in Ruomberok, Slovakia.
External appointments: none Philip Laubscher, 57 Company secretary Mondi Limited Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, was in-house counsel with national power utility Eskom for 15 years before joining Mondi in 1999 as head of legal services.
He was appointed company secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001.
Carol Hunt, 51 Company secretary Mondi plc Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, spent 15 years with The BOC Group plc, holding various roles in the company secretariat, the last six years as deputy company secretary.
She joined Mondi in November 2006 and was formally appointed company secretary of Mondi plc in May 2007.
Philip and Carol work together on the co-ordination of Mondis DLC structure.
