Board of directors Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams David Hathorn Cyril Ramaphosa, 60 Joint chairman Appointed: May 2007 Committees: nominations Qualifications: law graduate from the University of South Africa Unisa, also holds honorary doctorates from a number of institutions, including the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Massachusetts Experience: joined the Council of Unions of South Africa as a legal adviser in 1981.
He went on to join the National Union of Mineworkers, South Africas largest trade union, serving as general secretary until 1991.
Executive chairman of Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited, which owns Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited.
Past chairman of the Black Economic Empowerment Commission in South Africa.
He was chairman of the Constitutional Assembly which negotiated South Africas first democratic dispensation.
External appointments: executive chairman of Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited, non-executive chairman of MTN Group Limited, non-executive director of SABMiller plc, Alexander Forbes Equity Holdings Proprietary Limited and Standard Bank Group Limited.
Formerly a non-executive director of Lonmin plc.
David Williams, 67 Joint chairman Appointed: May 2007 and as joint chairman in August 2009 Committees: nominations chairman, remuneration Qualifications: graduated in economics from Manchester University, chartered accountant UK Experience: retired as finance director of Bunzl plc in January 2006, having served on the board for 14 years, and previously a member of the Tootal management board and finance director of Tootal plc.
External appointments: non-executive director of Dubai-based DP World Limited and Meggitt plc where he is the senior independent director.
He also chairs the audit committees of both companies.
Formerly a non-executive director of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, Dewhirst Group plc, Medeva plc, George Wimpey plc, Taylor Woodrow plc and Tullow Oil plc.
David Hathorn, 50 Chief executive officer Appointed: May 2007 Committees: executive chairman, sustainable development, social & ethics Qualifications: graduated in commerce from the University of Natal, chartered accountant South Africa Experience: completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in 1987.
Joined Anglo American plc in 1989 as a divisional finance manager, moved to Mondi in 1991 and went on to serve as finance director and then general manager of Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was appointed chief executive officer of the Mondi Group.
At Anglo American plc, David was a member of the executive committee from 2003 and an executive director from 2005 and served on the boards of a number of companies, including fide Beers, Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
External appointments: none 62 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 62 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Andrew King Peter Oswald Anne Quinn Andrew King, 43 Chief financial officer Appointed: October 2008 Committees: executive Qualifications: graduated in commerce from the University of Cape Town, chartered accountant South Africa Experience: completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in 1994.
In 1995 joined Minorco, the international arm of Anglo American, as a financial analyst, before assuming responsibility for the groups investment management activities, and transferring to their corporate finance department in 1998.
He worked on a number of group M&A activities before being appointed a vice president of Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1999.
Appointed Mondis vice president of business development in 2002 and corporate development director in 2004.
He served as chief financial officer of Mondi from June 2005 to May 2006, before being appointed as Group strategy and business development director.
External appointments: none Peter Oswald, 50 Chief executive officer: Europe & International Division Appointed: January 2008 Committees: executive Qualifications: graduated in law from the University of Vienna and in business administration from WU-Vienna Business School Experience: began his career with Deutsche Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the Frantschach Group in 1992 as the head of internal audit, later becoming corporate controller.
After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles business from 1995 to 2001, overseeing its recovery and expansion, was appointed chief executive of Mondi Packaging Europe in 2002, leading its subsequent integration with Frantschach into the new Mondi packaging division.
External appointments: non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG and president of respACT-austrian business council for sustainable development.
Anne Quinn CBE, 61 Senior independent director Appointed: May 2007 and as senior independent director in August 2009 Committees: audit, nominations, remuneration chairman, sustainable development Qualifications: bachelor of commerce from Auckland University and masters degree in management science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT.
Awarded a CBE for services to the natural gas industry.
Experience: early career with NZ Forest Products Limited and the US management consulting company Resource Planning Associates.
Joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which was subsequently acquired by BP plc.
Went on to work for BP in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK and held a number of executive positions, including group vice president.
Previously a managing director of Riverstone Holdings Europe, a private equity investment firm specialising in the renewable and conventional energy and power industries.
External appointments: non-executive director of Smiths Group plc, and former non-executive director of The BOC Group plc from 2004 to 2006.
indd 63 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Board of directors continued Stephen Harris Imogen Mkhize John Nicholas Stephen Harris, 54 Non-executive director Appointed: March 2011 Committees: audit, nominations, remuneration, sustainable development chairman, social & ethics Qualifications: chartered engineer, graduated in engineering from Cambridge University, masters degree in business administration from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business Experience: spent his early career in engineering with Courtaulds plc and then moved to the USA to join APV Inc from 1984 until 1995, where he held several senior management positions.
He was appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn as an executive director in 1995 and then went on to join Spectris plc as an executive director from 2003 until 2008.
He was also a non-executive director of Brixton plc between 2006 and 2009.
External appointments: chief executive officer of Bodycote plc.
Imogen Mkhize, 49 Non-executive director Appointed: May 2007 Committees: nominations, remuneration, social & ethics chairman Qualifications: graduated in information systems from Rhodes University in 1984, an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1995.
Completed a Diploma in Company Direction with the Institute of Directors GIMT in 2000 Experience: has been involved in corporate governance for over two decades.
She spent her early career with Anglo American, Andersen Consulting and the financial services group Nedcor, before becoming managing director of telecommunications group Lucent Technologies South Africa.
Between 2003 and July 2006, she held the position of chief executive officer of the 18th World Petroleum Congress, an international oil and gas event.
In 2001 Imogen was recognised by the World Economic Forum as a Global Leader for Tomorrow.
External appointments: a director of Sasol Limited and of Mobile Telephone Networks Proprietary Limited.
A member of Accenture South Africa Advisory Council.
A member of Rhodes University Board of Governors and chairman of Rhodes Business School.
Formerly chairman of Richards Bay Coal Terminal, a former director of Murray & Roberts Holdings Limited and emeritus member of the Harvard Business School Global Alumni Board.
John Nicholas, 56 Non-executive director Appointed: October 2009 Committees: audit chairman, nominations Qualifications: masters degree in business administration from Kingston University, chartered accountant UK Experience: early career was spent in technology-focused international manufacturing and service companies involved in analytical instruments, fire protection and food processing.
He became group finance director of Kidde plc on its demerger from Williams Holdings and was group finance director at Tate & Lyle plc from 2006 to 2008.
He is currently a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review Panel, which seeks to ensure that the provision of financial information by public and large private companies complies with relevant reporting requirements.
External appointments: non-executive director of Hunting PLC and Rotork p. l. c. chairing the audit committees of both.
He was a nonexecutive director of Ceres Power Holdings plc until December 2012, also chairing the audit committee.
64 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
