DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Chairmens statement Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams Dear shareholder 2012 was another challenging year, with broader macroeconomic weakness continuing to impact business across the globe.
High levels of sovereign debt, volatile exchange rates and relatively high unemployment levels in the US and euro area are all hampering economic recovery.
The euro-zone debt crisis and the ongoing US fiscal challenges remain significant threats to the world economy.
The associated contraction in economic activity, particularly in Europe, directly impacts Mondis business in both western and emerging markets.
SSFIR SD More details of the Groups performance Against this backdrop, we are pleased with Mondis performance in 2012, as the are set out in the chief executives review, the Group again demonstrated its ability to deliver solid results.
Mondis high-quality, wellchief financial officers review, the business invested assets and its focus on low-cost production continue to be major competitive review and the sustainable development advantages.
Mondi delivered underlying operating profit of E568 million and achieved a review in this report return on capital employed of 13.7%.
In addition, the significant progress that the Group achieved strategically made 2012 a memorable year, with E1.2 billion of acquisitions.
Growing shareholder value Although 2012 was another demanding year, Mondis strategic initiatives, strong operational performance, and financial discipline again delivered good results for shareholders with underlying operating profit of E568 million and basic underlying earnings per share of 69.6 euro cents per share.
The Boards continue to support Mondis strategic direction, which is demonstrably creating and sustaining shareholder value, as evidenced by the Groups solid financial Mondi is results and strong share price performance.
demonstrably TSR and peer performance during 2012 Mondi Peer performance 225 creating and 200 175 sustaining 150 125 shareholder 100 75 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec value 11 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 Mondi Group 5 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 5 2013 03 04 2:57 PM Return index Chairmens statement continued The Boards aim is to offer shareholders long-term dividend growth within a targeted Mondis approach to integrated dividend cover range of two to three times over the cycle.
Given the Groups strong reporting financial position, notwithstanding the significant debt-funded acquisitions during the year, and the Boards stated objective to increase distributions to shareholders through This year, the Mondi Group has the ordinary dividend, we are pleased to recommend an increase in the final dividend.
made further progress in reporting The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have recommended a final dividend of in an holistic way.
At the centre 19.1 euro cents per share 2011: 17.75 euro cents per share, payable on 16 May 2013 of Mondis 2012 reporting is the to shareholders on the register at 19 April 2013.
Together with the interim dividend Groups strategy and how the of 8.9 euro cents per share, paid on 18 September 2012, this amounts to a total relationship between strategy and dividend for the year of 28.0 euro cents per share.
In 2011, the total dividend for the risk is managed to drive performance year was 26.0 euro cents per share.
To shareholders on the South African registers of and protect the long-term value of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, an equivalent dividend of 90.44358 South African rand the business.
While we recognise cents per share was paid on 18 September 2012 and, together with a final dividend that shareholders remain the primary of 225.16629 South African rand cents per share payable on 16 May 2013, the total audience of this report, we want to dividend amounts to 315.60987 South African rand cents per share.
ensure that it is accessible to a broad range of stakeholders.
Creating sustainable value This report links financial and nonMondi is committed to creating sustainable value in the following ways: financial performance to provide investing in the long-term growth and development of our business through innovation a balanced perspective of the and excellence, and by delivering the products that best meet the needs of our years achievements.
Relevant customers and society: financial, environmental, social and complying with legislation, regulation and striving to achieve best practice: governance issues are addressed to creating and sustaining valuable and meaningful employment, recognising diversity provide an holistic view of Mondis and ingenuity amongst our people, and allowing them to develop to the best of performance in 2012 as well as their ability: the Groups strategy, risks and preserving and enhancing the safety and well-being of our employees: opportunities going forward.
maintaining the integrity of our forests, and contributing to the preservation of high In addition to our Sustainable conservation areas: development report, available online endeavouring to minimise the impact of our operations on our neighbours: and at contributing to the development of people and communities at and around www.
which covers 2012 performance in more detail and has been developed The Groups track record remains impressive in the sustainability arena.
In 2012, Mondi in line with the Global Reporting was once again an advanced level reporter under the UN Global Compact UNGC : and Initiative and the UNGC, we are for reporting and performance by the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Mondi was also a sector introducing a new printed report leader in the Forest Footprint Disclosure.
entitled Shaping our sustainable future www.
com ssf12 that In November 2012 Mondis ongoing commitment to sustainability including its describes Mondis approach to global environmental, risk and safety management systems, was commended when it sustainable development issues and was awarded: debates.
This report uses the World The WWF Environmental Paper Award for Transparency 2012: and Best Environmental Business Council for Sustainable Performance Paper Brands 2012: Developments Vision 2050 pathways The Pulp and Paper International PPI awards for Environmental Strategy of the Year as its framework.
2012 Mondi Group : Managing Risk and Safety 2012 Mondi SCP in Slovakia : and Efficiency Improvements of the Year 2012 Mondi SCP in Slovakia.
We believe that the Groups ability to create sustainable value is fundamentally dependent on its commitment to strong ethical values and professionalism in all of its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc strive to achieve the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice, and are 6 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 6 2013 03 04 2:57 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance SSFIR A detailed account of corpor SD ate committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability.
The material governance within the Group may be found information in this report is also audited or assured by independent auditors Deloitte and on pages 66 79 ERM CVS respectively.
Acknowledgement of Mondis people The wealth of talent in Mondis teams across the globe has enabled the Group to deliver on its goals despite challenging conditions.
As Chairmen, it is heartening to know that no decision is taken lightly and that people at all levels of the business are striving to live Mondis values as they act with integrity and a passion for performance, whilst developing a working environment where employees feel appreciated.
We thank all Mondis 25,700 employees for the contribution they continue to make to the Groups success and we welcome the teams from the recent acquisitions to our business.
In an era where uncertainty prevails, the stability our executive team provides, under the leadership of David Hathorn, is invaluable.
We have great confidence in the executive team, and their ability to drive performance, manage risk and seek out sound, value enhancing business opportunities is exceptional.
Strategic summary and outlook Mondis clear strategic path, its strong leadership and focus on performance has enabled the Group to deliver a solid performance in a challenging macroeconomic environment.
The important acquisitions made during the past year will strengthen the Groups exposure to high-growth product segments and complement its strategic positioning to continue to deliver value to shareholders into the future.
Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams Joint chairman Joint chairman In January 2013 Cyril Ramaphosa advised that he will be stepping down at the conclusion of the Groups Annual General Meetings on 3 May 2013, following his election as deputy president of South Africas ruling party, the African National Congress, in December 2012.
Cyril has reviewed his business commitments and has advised Mondi that he wishes to resign from his positions as joint chairman and as a non-executive director at the Annual General Meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 3 May 2013.
On behalf of the Boards, I would like to thank Cyril for his significant contribution to the Mondi Group.
He has helped guide Mondi through its initial years of listing and played an important role in providing constructive counsel particularly on issues specific to the South African business environment.
David Williams Joint chairman Mondi Group 7 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
