com Group PLC Business Overview Annual Report 2012 more expertise more experience more talent Digital marketing Our digital marketing and content team help customers find us on the internet and deliver engaging content about money saving and personal finance, helping our customers find the right product for their needs and make the most of their money.
Search Go M Mo on ney eyS Su up pe er rm ma ar rk ke et t.. c co om G m Gr ro ou up PL p PLC C 9 9 Bu Bus si in ne es ss s O Ov ver erv vi iew ew A An nnual nual Re Repor port t 2 20 01 12 2 Customers visit us because we are a trusted source of useful and engaging money saving content.
In 2012, we invested signicantly in strengthening our digital and content marketing teams.
Our digital specialists help us to maintain our high visibility in search engines, and our journalists create engaging, useful articles, guides and tips for our customers.
As a result, we have further enhanced our reputation as a leading destination for the best money saving information on the internet.
Digital specialists Our Experts Our digital team includes both organic performance specialists search engine optimisation and performance media specialists search engine marketing.
The organic performance team ensured that in 2012, we maintained our visibility across all of the keywords in the natural listings on search engines for our core channels, helping our customers who are looking to save money nd us easily when they search for products on the internet.
The performance media team manage the bidding process across millions of keywords on search engines, to maximise our paid media investment and ensure we maintain our visibility across our chosen keywords in the sponsored listings on search engines.
Content specialists Our content team is responsible for creating original articles, guides and providing tips to help our customers save money and feel great.
Sorting out the family nances can feel like a complex and daunting task.
The aim of the professional journalists in our content team is to help our customers feel more empowered to make decisions about the products and services that will suit Our experts have many years experience them best and provide them with the most value.
in consumer finance and insurance industries.
Many of the content team previously worked for the major national According to MoneySupermarket.
com newspapers, meaning they can draw on research, a third of adults in the UK their extensive knowledge to make saving feel stressed about money every single money much easier for families in the UK.
The articles on our site can help to unpick the complexities of managing your family finances and take control of your money.
