com Group PLC Business Overview Annual Report 2012 more choice more brands MoneySupermarket.
com provides its money saving and personal finance services across a vast range of different product areas including motor insurance, credit cards, loans, home insurance, energy and package holidays.
This ensures that we are able to help our customers make the most of their money, no matter what their needs are.
It also ensures that we can work with a vast range of different product providers and help them to market their products to our customers in an efficient manner.
Money Insurance Revenue Revenue 57.4m 120.4m 9% 1 7% Whether it is getting approval for a loan or credit card MoneySupermarket.
com works with more insurance or getting a decent rate for their savings, it is not an product providers and delivers more insurance easy time for British families.
We help our customers quotes to our customers than any of our competitors.
search for the right deal for their needs from over 25 Our insurance business includes motor, home, life credit card providers, over 30 loan providers and over and travel insurance amongst others.
At the end of 60 savings providers.
We also help our customers December 2012, we compared over 130 car search for the right deal for their mortgage, current insurance brands, making it even easier for our account and debt solution needs amongst others.
customers to find the right policy at the right price.
com Group PLC 3 Business Overview Annual Report 2012 Home Services Travel Revenue Revenue 11.4m 13.1m 24% -2% With energy prices rising steeply, the electricity TravelSupermarket.
com helps holidaymakers make and gas bill is one that many families dread.
the most of their holiday budget.
com makes it easier for families find everything from package holidays, to flights, in the UK to get a much better deal on their energy hotels and car hire.
We search more than 650 low needs.
Our customers can search for the right tariff cost and chartered airlines, more than 300,000 for their needs from 18 energy providers.
If they need hotels and thousands of individual package holidays, extra help to switch their supplier, we have a phonemaking it even easier for our customers to find their based support service to guide our customers perfect holiday destination.
com Group PLC Business Overview Annual Report 2012 more savings Tips Articles Whats new MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC 5 Business Overview Annual Report 2012 Editors choice Emails Education Introducing MoneySavingExpert.
com Why we are stronger together In September 2012, MoneySupermarket.
com for consideration of up to 92.5m been long standing partners, working together for a number with an initial consideration of 65.5m paid on completion and of years with the common goal of helping consumers make deferred consideration of up to 27.0m payable dependent in the most of their money.
part on the achievement of certain non-financial performance criteria and in part at MoneySupermarket.
com is rightly trusted by its users as a source of valuable information and views in todays complex MoneySavingExpert.
com was founded in 2003 by personal financial world.
By joining forces, together, we will be able to finance journalist, Martin Lewis.
It operates one of the leading reach more people and help more people to save more money.
UK based personal finance journalism websites, providing its users with free online access to a wide range of services and We will help MoneySavingExpert.
com reach a wider information related to saving money and personal finance audience by improving the visibility and accessibility of the including guides, tips, tools and techniques.
com website to consumers whilst also enhancing the user experience.
coms website is complemented by features such as a weekly email newsletter, a user forum, and bespoke MoneySavingExpert.
com also provides information broaden the range of guides, tips, tools and techniques we offer, on and promotes topical consumer focused issues such as encouraging even more of our customers to nd a better deal reclaiming payment protection insurance.
and make the most of their money.
It primarily derives revenue from the MoneySavingExpert.
com website and weekly email newsletters through revenue-sharing arrangements with intermediary providers such as price comparison websites and, to a lesser extent, through direct arrangements with product providers.
