com Group PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Directors Report The Directors present their report and the Group and Company Major shareholders Financial Statements of MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC As at the date of this report, the Company had been notied of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary the financial year ended 31 December 2012. shares in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Principal activities The Company is a public limited company incorporated in Number of ordinary Percentage of England, registered number 6160943, with its registered ofce shares voting ordinary share at MoneySupermarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, Shareholder rights notied capital notied CH5 3UZ.
Simon Nixon 259,795,130 50.43 BlackRock Inc 25,454,379 4.998 The principal activity of the Group is the introduction of business FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.86 to financial, insurance, travel, home services and other product The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 24,955,401 4.84 or service providers through its websites.
The principal activity State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 4.14 of the Company is that of a holding company.
Martin Steven Lewis 17,378,424 3.20 A fuller description of business activities is contained within the Financial and Business Review on pages 19 to 25.
Share capital and control The issued share capital of the Company comprises a single Business review class of shares referred to as ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
As The Chairmans Statement on pages 14 and 15, the Chief at 31 December 2012, the issued share capital of the Company Executives Report on pages 16 to 18, the Financial and was 107,458 comprising 537,288,389 ordinary shares of 0.02p Business Review on pages 19 to 25 and the Principal Risks and each.
Full details of the share capital of the Company and Uncertainties on pages 26 and 27 provide a detailed review of changes to the share capital during the year are set out in note the Groups activities, likely future developments and principal 16 to the Group Financial Statements on page 77.
All the risks and uncertainties.
All the information detailed in those information detailed in note 16 on page 77 is incorporated by pages is incorporated by reference into this report and is reference into this report and is deemed to form part of this deemed to form part of this report.
As at the date of this report, there have been no important At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on events affecting the business of the Group which have occurred 18 April 2012, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot since 31 December 2012. up to 339,180,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at Corporate governance the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to allot up to The Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee 357,835,000 ordinary shares.
Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 52 are incorporated by On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every reference into this report and are deemed to form part of this holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and report.
entitled to vote, shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to Results and dividends vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
There are The Groups and Companys audited Financial Statements for no issued shares in the Company with special rights with regard the financial year ended 31 December 2012 are set out on to control of the Company.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting species deadlines for An interim dividend of 1.8p 2011: 1.5p and a special dividend of exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote 3.93p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 14 in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual General September 2012.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.94p at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys 2011: 3.03p per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders website after the meeting.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 26 April 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 March 2013.
The final dividend, together with the interim dividend paid on 14 September 2012, gives a total dividend for the year of 5.74p 2011: 8.46p per ordinary share.
com Group PLC 33 Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Authority to purchase own shares Company other than: At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 18 April t Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by 2012, shareholders authorised the Company to purchase, in the laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
market, up to 50,928,800 of its own ordinary shares either to be t Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
As at the date of this Authority whereby certain Directors, ofcers and employees report, the Company had not purchased any of its own ordinary of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in shares in the market.
ordinary shares of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the Company to Under the rules of the Company Share Incentive Plan Plan, purchase, in the market, up to 53,728,838 of its own ordinary eligible employees were provided with the opportunity to receive shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
free shares on the listing of the Company Listing with a value as at the date of Listing of 3,000, and all employees are entitled The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account the financial resources of the Company, to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held in trust the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of account the effects on earnings per share and the interests of shareholders generally.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Research and development Trustees do not vote on any unawarded or forfeit shares held Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at the date of this report, to the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
The Groups the Trustees held 0.12% of the issued ordinary share capital of research and development expenditure is predominantly the Company.
associated with computer and internet software systems.
Successfully developed software is used to develop new The Company is not aware of any agreements between products and to improve and extend the functionality and scope shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of of the Groups internet operations.
securities and or voting rights.
Going concern The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a between them Relationship Agreement.
The Company and whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Financial Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
himself one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares of the Directors Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds The following persons were Directors of the Company during the the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of financial year ended 31 December 2012: Gerald Corbett, Simon the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as Nixon, Peter Plumb, Paul Doughty, David Osborne, Graham he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary Donoghue, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and Bruce Carnegieshares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will Brown.
Their biographical details with the exception of David terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary Osbornes are set out on pages 30 and 31.
David Osborne shares of the Company.
As at the date of this report, Simon ceased to be a Director of the Company with effect from Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant 31 December 2012. to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
Subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association, the Save in respect of provisions of the Companys share schemes Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and which may cause options and awards granted to employees may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
under such schemes to vest on a takeover, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors power employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference employment whether through resignation, purported of the Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board of redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
the Company must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles of Save in respect of the Companys share schemes, there are no Association also require Directors to retire and submit significant agreements to which the Company is a party that themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following following their appointment and to stand for re-election at least a takeover bid.
every three years following their election or last re-election.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
com Group PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Directors Report continued Directors remuneration t Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors t For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the needed to run the Group successfully.
Details of the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report EU.
t For the Company Financial Statements, state whether on pages 42 to 52. applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Directors interests the Company Financial Statements.
Details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in t Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52.
No Director has any Company will continue in business.
other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The details of transactions with Directors of the Company records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and related party transactions in the financial year ended transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 31 December 2012 are set out in note 22 to the Group Financial the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Statements on pages 80 and 81.
During the year, no Director that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act had any material interest in any contract of signicance to the 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as Groups business.
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Directors and ofcers insurance and indemnities Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also During the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and up to responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors the date of this report, the Company has maintained liability Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that insurance for its Directors and ofcers.
complies with that law and those regulations.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and of the corporate and financial information included on the its Articles of Association.
Qualifying third party indemnity Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ were in force throughout 2012 and remain in force as at the date from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of this report in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors or Company Secretary may incur in the course of Statement of Directors responsibilities acting as Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules Company or of any associated company.
12 Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on Statement of Directors responsibilities in pages 30 and 31 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: respect of the Annual Report and the Financial t The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the Statements applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or and the Group and Company Financial Statements in loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
t The business review includes a fair review of the development Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and and performance of the business and the position of the Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU risks and uncertainties that they face.
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Internal control Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted The Corporate Governance Report and Audit Committee Report Accounting Practice.
on pages 36 to 40 includes the Boards assessment of the Groups system of internal controls and consideration of the Under company law the Directors must not approve the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee of the Institute of Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: t Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
com Group PLC 35 Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Employees Financial risk management The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to employees and uses a number of ways to engage with minimise the adverse uctuations in the financial markets on the employees on matters that impact them and the performance of Groups profitability and cash ow.
The specic policies for the Group.
These include formal half yearly business managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are set performance updates by members of the executive out in note 17 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 77 management team for all employees, regular update briengs for and 78. all employees, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the latest Group information as Political and charitable donations well as Group policies, and the circulation to employees of During the financial year ended 31 December 2012, the Group results announcements and other corporate announcements.
did not make any political donations 2011: nil and made This also helps to achieve a common awareness amongst charitable donations of 37,032 2011: 37,454. employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Creditor payment policy It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business The Group has an established employee forum through which transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance nominated representatives ensure that employees views are with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
During the period the Group signed up to the Prompt Payment A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to Code, a Government backed scheme which encourages the ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and prompt payment of suppliers, the provision of clear guidance on that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
payment policy to suppliers, as well as general best practice in this area.
The average number of trade creditor days All employees are able to participate in the Companys Share outstanding for the Group at 31 December 2012 was 41 days Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn Scheme which gives 2011: 48.8.
The Company had no trade creditors at employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the 31 December 2012 2011: nil.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the performance of the Group.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of this report confirm Equal opportunities that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and all employees without discrimination and applies fair and each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have equitable employment policies which seek to promote entry into taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour aware of that information.
Auditors Disabled persons KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to accept Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for re-appointment as auditors of the Company.
A resolution vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures proposing their re-appointment is contained in the notice of the ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be proposed to training and career development.
For those employees becoming shareholders at that meeting.
disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain Annual General Meeting with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Leverhulme Stand, Chester Racecourse, In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed The Racecourse, Chester, CH1 2LY on Wednesday 17 April to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Borrowings The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting During 2012 the Group arranged a 20m revolving credit facility of the Company, with details of the business to be transacted at to provide cash ow for the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
the meeting and explanatory notes, is set out in a separate The largest amount drawn down during the period was 13m circular which has been sent to all shareholders at the same which was repaid in full before the end of 2012. time as this report.
By order of the Board Darren Drabble Company Secretary 4 March 2013
