com Group PLC Business Overview Annual Report 2012 more data more opportunity more targeted Data We have built up an extensive customer database over years of successful customer service.
This gives us access to a huge amount of insight about our customers, their needs and their preferences, helping us to provide our customers with better informed and more targeted deals.
M Mo on ney eyS Su up pe er rm ma ar rk ke et t.. c co om G m Gr ro ou up PL p PLC C 11 11 Bu Bus si in ne es ss s O Ov ver erv vi iew ew A An nnual nual Re Repor port t 2 20 01 12 2 We have more than 14 million individual customer records on our database.
Each week, we are able to talk to our customers about the best money saving deals currently in the market and how we can help them to navigate the complex world of personal finance.
Customer relationship management Our data and customer relationship management teams are constantly looking to understand how we can improve our engagement with our customers and how we can use our customer knowledge and insight to help them save even more money.
We use the information customers provide to us to highlight the articles, tips, products and services which are most likely to be Investment in our data of interest to them at any particular time.
capabilities Each week, we compile more than 200 different versions of our popular email, More Money.
Rather than sending one blanket email to all of our customers, we make sure that only the relevant articles, tips and product details are sent, based on what we know about our customers, ensuring this communication is personalised to their interests.
We also utilise the information our customers have provided to us in relation to their motor insurance needs to communicate to them at the time of renewal with new quotes for their motor insurance.
This ensures we are able to help our customers with their motor insurance in a personalised manner at the point they are looking for a new motor insurance policy.
In 2012, we appointed a new Head of Insight and Customer Engagement and We continue to invest in developing invested in strengthening our team of highly skilled data professionals to our data and customer relationship significantly develop our talents in this management capabilities so we can area.
We have the right tools in place to help our customers find the right keep helping our customers save money and feel great in a way that suits them.
deals especially suited to them and their families needs.
