com Group PLC Business Overview Annual Report 2012 more savings more range more awareness Brand Save money, feel great!
Our brand building activity, including advertising and PR, aims to build consumer trust and celebrate the benefits of saving with us.
M Mo on ney eyS Su up pe er rm ma ar rk ke et t.. c co om G m Gr ro ou up PL p PLC C 13 13 Bu Bus si in ne es ss s O Ov ver erv vi iew ew A An nnual nual Re Repor port t 2 20 01 12 2 Our brand building activity ensures that more customers visit us to save money than any of our competitors.
Our advertising and public relations activity builds brand recognition and brand trust with our customers so that more people know they can save money on their household bills with us and trust us to help them make those savings.
Youre So MoneySupermarket In 2012, we continued to celebrate the amazing feeling you get when you save money, with our Youre So MoneySupermarket campaign.
We evolved the campaign to Youre so MoneySupermarket focus on more than motor insurance, showing the UK that we can help them save money on a wide range of their household bills.
Times are pretty tough right now for families in the UK and comparing the cost of household bills can make a real difference to every day family budgets.
Public relations building trust in our expertise Our public relations campaigns ensure that our expert spokespeople are regularly on TV, online and in the newspapers, helping our customers to make the most of their money.
This helps to build trust in our brand and position MoneySupermarket.
com as the go-to destination for all of our customers money saving needs.
com was in the news more than 3,000 times, and was on the broadcast airwaves talking about money saving issues for more than 40 hours in total.
2012 saw us introduce more information in our TV advertising campaigns about In 2012, by using the different ways we can help our customers save money on their MoneySupermarket.
We kicked off the year households saved 1 billion.
Thats a with our Vegas campaign, where the hero, Brian saved on everything from huge amount of money, and something energy to credit cards, before ending the our customers should feel very proud year with Gary, as the 1,000 man who of.
We want to celebrate just how good managed to save 1,000 on all his household bills.
it feels to save in these tough times.
