M Mo on ney eyS Su up pe er rm ma ar rk ke et t.. c co om G m Gr ro ou up PL p PLC C 7 7 Bu Bus si in ne es ss s O Ov ver erv vi iew ew A An nnual nual Re Repor port t 2 20 01 12 2 more innovation Our strategy Our mission and strategy has served us well over the past four years.
We call it our house model and its on just about every wall of our offices.
Our mission is to help every household make the most of their money.
Looking ahead to 2013, we see no reason to change either our mission or our vision.
Strategic objective Progress Next steps Best Shop Be the easiest way for customers to shop We continued our IT investment Our team are focused and resourced to for insurance, money, home services and programme during 2012.
The result is that move all of our core shops to the market travel products.
we nished the year with five of our key leading position over the next 18 months.
shops being voted by an independent third party as the best shop compared to our competitors.
Preferred Partner Be the best way for our providers to Our independence and dedicated As a business we constantly challenge acquire new customers.
commercial teams have continued to ourselves to add value to our providers.
build strong relationships with our In 2012 we built a new insight and data providers during 2012.
Our annual analytics team who we expect will build provider satisfaction survey shows that deeper relationships with our providers in many of our providers are either satisfied 2013 and beyond.
or very satisfied with our service, particularly insurance providers.
Data Use data to help customers save more We look after customer data for more than We believe in putting customers in charge money.
We spent 2012 building a of their data.
In 2013, we will further new insight and data analytics team who enhance the ability for customers to update will be able to provide customers with all aspects of their data including contact money saving information targeted to preferences.
Build Brand Be an everyday brand for our customers.
com is the most The Group expanded its team of experts trusted brand in our category, something and journalists during 2012, with the single we are very proud of, and something we objective of writing more guides and intend to preserve.
In 2012, we welcomed content to help customers save more MoneySavingExpert.
Our brands are now known a brand focused on ghting the for much more than just motor insurance, a consumers corner.
theme we expect to continue during 2013.
