com Group PLC Management Annual Report 2012 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Gerald Corbett Simon Nixon Peter Plumb Paul Doughty Chairman of the Board Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Gerald has been chairman Simon co-founded the Prior to joining the Group in Paul joined the Group in Biography of Britvic plc since Groups business in 1993 2009, Peter was the UK 2004 as Chief Financial November 2005, chairman and since then has been managing director of officer.
Prior to that, he of Betfair Group plc since involved in the dunnhumby Limited held commercial finance March 2012 and chairman management and between 2006 and 2008. roles at Motorola Limited, of Towry Holdings Limited development of the He was previously general National Power plc and since March 2012.
Gerald business including manager of Europe Disney Morse plc.
Paul is a is a non-executive director the launch of Consumer Products, qualied Chartered of Numis Corporation Plc MoneySupermarket.
com international director of Accountant, having trained and is chairman of the in 1999 and Dyson Appliances Limited and qualied at Price board of trustees of the TravelSupermarket.
com and held senior commercial Waterhouse.
Royal National Institute for in 2004. roles at PepsiCo the Deaf.
Peter has an chairman of SSL MBA from IMD in International plc from 2005 Switzerland.
to 2010 and prior to that was chairman, chief executive or finance director of a number of major companies.
Term of Ofce Gerald was appointed to Simon was appointed to Peter was appointed to the Paul was appointed to the the Board as Chairman in the Board as Chief Board in January 2009 and Board in April 2007.
Executive officer in April became Chief Executive 2007 and became Deputy officer in February 2009.
On appointment Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Independent External Gerald is chairman of Simon is a director of None Paul is a director of HD Britvic plc, Betfair Group Simonseeks.
com Limited, Decisions Limited, a Appointments plc, Towry Holdings Limited Simon Family Ofce company in which the and the board of trustees of Limited, Atlantic Paradise Group owns 25% of the the Royal National Institute Ltd, Atlantic Serenity share capital.
He is a Holding Ltd and Simon non-executive director of Escapes Properties SL.
Gerald chairs the Not applicable Peter chairs the Group Risk Paul is a member of the Committee Nomination Committee Committee and attends the Group Risk Committee and Membership and is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and attends the Audit Remuneration and Nomination Committees by Committee by invitation.
com Group PLC 31 Management Annual Report 2012 Graham Donoghue Michael Wemms Rob Rowley Bruce Carnegie-Brown Darren Drabble Managing Director, Senior Independent Independent NonIndependent NonCompany Secretary and Financial Services Non-Executive Director Executive Director and Executive Director and Group General Counsel Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Committee Remuneration Committee Graham joined the Group Michael has been a Rob has been a nonBruce was appointed Darren joined the Group as in 2008 as Managing non-executive director of executive director of Intu non-executive chairman of Company Secretary and Director, Travel and was Howden Joinery Group plc Properties plc since 2004 AON UK plc in September Group General Counsel in appointed Managing since 2006.
He was and a non-executive 2012 and a non-executive May 2007.
Darren has a Director, Financial Services formerly a non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey director of Santander UK corporate and commercial in January 2011.
Prior to director of Inchcape plc plc since 2010, where, for plc in October 2012.
He law background originally joining the Group, Graham between 2004 and 2011, both companies, he is the has been a non-executive qualifying as a solicitor with was new media director of chairman of the British senior independent director of Close Brothers Addleshaw Goddard LLP TUI Travel plc between Retail Consortium between non-executive director and Group plc since 2006, and before working as a senior 2006 and 2008.
2004 and 2006, chairman chairs their respective audit a non-executive director of legal counsel at United of House of Fraser plc committees.
He was Catlin Group Limited since Utilities Group PLC.
between 2001 and 2006 formerly deputy chairman 2010, where, for both and a non-executive of Cable & Wireless plc companies, he is the senior director of A&D Pharma between 2003 and 2006 independent non-executive Holdings N. V. between and a non-executive director and chairs their 2006 and 2008.
Michael director of Prudential plc respective remuneration was previously an executive between 1999 and 2006 committees.
He was director of Tesco plc where he chaired its audit previously managing between 1989 and 2000. committee.
Rob was partner of 3i Group, chief previously at Reuters plc executive officer of Marsh from 1978 to 2001 where Limited and a managing he was a director between director of JP Morgan.
Graham was appointed to Michael was appointed to Rob was appointed to the Bruce was appointed to Darren was appointed the Board in February the Board as a NonBoard as a Non-Executive the Board as a NonCompany Secretary in 2009.
Executive Director in July Director in September Executive Director in April June 2007.
Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Not applicable None Michael is a non-executive Rob is a non-executive Bruce is non-executive None director of Howden Joinery director of Intu Properties chairman of Aon UK plc.
plc and Taylor Wimpey plc.
He is a non-executive director of Close Brothers Group plc, Catlin Group Limited and Santander UK plc.
Graham is a member of the Michael is a member of the Rob chairs the Audit Bruce chairs the Darren is a member of the Group Risk Committee.
Remuneration, Audit and Committee and Remuneration Committee Group Risk Committee.
is a member of the and is a member of the Remuneration and Audit and Nomination Nomination Committees.
