BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andrew Shilston Andrew Hosty Martin Flower Chairman CEO Morgan Ceramics Senior Independent Director Mark Robertshaw Kevin Dangerfield Andrew Given Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Andrew Shilston Andrew Hosty Martin Flower Non-executive Chairman aged 57 CEO Morgan Ceramics aged 48 Senior Independent Director aged 66 Andrew was appointed as Chairman Designate in Andrew was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Martin was appointed as a non-executive Director in May 2012 and as Chairman in August 2012.
He is of Morgan Ceramics and joined the Morgan Crucible December 2004 and as Senior Independent Director the Senior Independent Director of BP p. l. c. and Board in July 2010.
Before this appointment he held a in April 2008.
He is Chairman of Croda International plc a non-executive Director of Circle Holdings plc.
number of senior positions within the Morgan Crucible and Low & Bonar PLC.
He was previously Chairman of From 2002 until his retirement in 2011 he was Group.
Andrew was Chief Executive Officer of Autogrill Holdings UK plc, a non-executive Director of Chief Financial Officer of Rolls Royce Holdings plc and Technical Ceramics from 2004 to July 2010, Autogrill Group Inc. and Deputy Chairman and Senior prior to this he was the Finance Director at Enterprise whereupon the Technical Ceramics and Thermal Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc.
Andrew was previously a non-executive Ceramics Businesses were brought together as the a variety of senior management positions with Coats plc Director of Cairn Energy plc, where he chaired the Morgan Ceramics Division.
He is a non-executive from 1968 to 2004, and was Group Chief Executive Audit Committee.
Director of Fiberweb plc, British Ceramic Research of that Group and Chairman of the Board from 2001 Limited and was President of the British Ceramics to 2004.
Mark Robertshaw Andrew Given Chief Executive Officer aged 44 Kevin Dangerfield Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in Non-executive Director aged 65 August 2006.
Prior to this he was Chief Operating Chief Financial Officer aged 46 Andrew was appointed as a non-executive Director Officer from February 2006 and Chief Financial Officer Kevin was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in in December 2007 and is the Chairman of the from October 2004.
Before joining Morgan Crucible August 2006, having joined Morgan Crucible in Audit Committee.
He was previously the senior he was Chief Financial Officer of Gartmore Investment July 2000 as Deputy Group Financial Controller non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Management plc from 2000 to 2004.
Prior to this before being promoted to Group Financial Controller.
Committee of VT Group plc, the Senior Independent he spent nine years with Marakon Associates.
Mark is He is a non-executive Director of e2v technologies plc.
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee a non-executive Director of SEGRO plc and was a Before joining Morgan Crucible Kevin worked for of Spectris plc and a non-executive Director and Chair non-executive Director of Rathbones Brothers plc London International Group plc and Virgin Retail of the Audit Committee of Spirent Communications plc.
He qualified as a chartered accountant Andrew was formerly Deputy Chief Executive of with .
Logica plc and held senior management positions in Plessey and Nortel Networks.
36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE Simon Heale Paul Boulton Don Klas Non-executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel CEO Morgan Engineered Materials Victoire fide Margerie Peter Blausten Non-executive Director Director of Human Resources Simon Heale Paul Boulton Mark Robertshaw Non-executive Director aged 59 Company Secretary & General Counsel Chief Executive Officer Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director aged 45 in February 2005 and is the Chairman of the Paul was appointed Company Secretary in 2007 Kevin Dangerfield Remuneration Committee.
He is the Senior having joined Morgan Crucible in July 2004 as General Chief Financial Officer Independent Director and Chairman of the Counsel and Deputy Company Secretary.
Before Remuneration Committee of Coats plc, a nonjoining the Company, he spent nine years with IMI plc, executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee his last role being Deputy Company Secretary and Andrew Hosty of Kazakhmys PLC, a non-executive Director and Senior Legal Adviser.
CEO Morgan Ceramics Chair of the CSR Committee of PZ Cussons Plc, a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit and Peter Blausten Compliance Committee of Marex Spectron Group Don Klas Director of Human Resources aged 53 Limited and Trustee and Treasurer of Macmillan Cancer CEO Morgan Engineered Materials Peter joined Morgan Crucible in March 2011 Support chairing their Finance and Legal Committee as Director of Human Resources.
Prior to joining and sitting on their Audit Committee.
He was Chief Morgan Crucible, Peter advised on private equity Executive of China Now from 2007 to 2008 and was Paul Boulton acquisitions and international leadership programmes Chief Executive of The London Metal Exchange from Company Secretary & General Counsel as an independent consultant.
Simon qualified as an accountant with HR Director of BAA plc and held senior roles with Price Waterhouse and has had extensive experience Charles Schwab & Co, British Airways, and Ford Motor in the Far East, having held senior positions with the Peter Blausten Co. Peter is a member of the Council of the Institute Swire Group in Japan and Hong Kong and with Director of Human Resources of Employment Studies and was appointed as a Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong.
Commissioner for the UK Civil Service in 2010.
Victoire fide Margerie Don Klas Non-executive Director aged 49 CEO Morgan Engineered Materials Victoire was appointed as a non-executive Director in May 2012.
She is the Chairman and aged 54 first shareholder of Rondol Technology Limited.
Don joined Morgan Crucible in 1980 as a plant engineer She is also a non-executive Director of the French and has over a quarter of a century of experience with quoted companies Arkema and Eurazo, and the the Carbon business.
In his role as CEO of Carbon Norwegian quoted company Norsk Hydro.
Victoire Americas, Don was responsible for 50% of the revenue previously held non-executive positions at Ciments of the Carbon division.
Don became CEO of the Franais, Outokumpu and Ipsos, and was a Professor former Carbon division in 2008, and became CEO of in Strategic Management at Grenoble School of Morgan Engineered Materials in July 2010 when the Business.
During her executive career she held senior Carbon, NP Aerospace and Molten Metal Systems management positions in Germany, France and the Member of the Audit Committee businesses were integrated into one division.
USA with Arkema, CarnaudMetalbox and Pchiney.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Victoire holds a PhD in Strategic Management from Member of the Nomination Committee Universit Paris 2 Panthon Assas.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 37
