Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Key perFOrMance inDicatOrS to support the Groups strategy and to historic performance.
at a business level, as Morgan crucibles businesses grow and monitor performance, the Board of Directors a range of further benchmarks and other evolve the list of Kpis selected will be reviewed and the executive committee use a number Kpis are also used as part of the Divisional and updated to ensure they remain important of financial and non-financial key performance planning and performance review processes.
to the success of the Group.
these Kpis are selected as in order to measure the underlying performance being important to the success of the Group of the business, management further analyse Financial and non-financial performance in delivering its strategic objectives.
progress the headline Kpis to exclude the impact of is reviewed in more detail in the Divisional, is assessed by comparison with the Groups acquisitions and foreign exchange.
financial and corporate responsibility sections strategy, its budget for the year and against of this Business review.
Performance Kpi 2012 2011 relevant strategic objective Financial KPIs revenue decline growth 8.5 % 8.2% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets underlying operating profit decline growth 23.1 % 39.3% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets to be high value-added to the Groups customers to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency underlying operating profit margin 10.8% 12.9% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency underlying profit before taxation 89.7m 119.7m creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency Free cash flow before acquisitions and dividends 48.9m 57.8m creating consistent long-term value for shareholders return on Operating capital employed 26.5% 33.7% creating consistent long-term value for shareholders underlying earnings per share 23.2p 29.9p creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Dividend per share 10.0p 9.25p creating consistent long-term value for shareholders u Non-financial KPIs year-on-year pricing change 2.0% 2.3% to be high value-added to the Groups customers total employment costs as % of sales 30.4% 29.2% to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency employee turnover 13.4% 13.7% to find, keep and develop the right people training hours per employee 15.1 13.3 to find, keep and develop the right people lost time accident frequency per 100,000 hours worked 0.52 0.58 to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency to find, keep and develop the right people tonnes cO per m revenue 403 411 to have a culture of operational excellence and 2 cost-efficiency tonnes waste per m revenue 49 45 to have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
underlying profit before taxation is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets less net financing costs.
r eturn on Operating capital employed is defined as Group underlying operating profit divided by the sum of working capital which excludes pension liability and provisions and the net book value of tangible assets.
Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded.
underlying earnings per share is defined as basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible assets.
See note 10 on page 82 for definition of basic earnings per share.
u non-financial Kpis are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 09
