Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 89 Directors report After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Principal group activities Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate The principal activities of the Group are copper mining including to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
exploration and development, the transportation of freight by rail and road and the distribution of water.
These activities are mainly based in Chile.
Value of land The Companys principal activity is to act as a holding company.
The Company is incorporated in England and listed on the London Stock Land included within property, plant and equipment in the financial Exchange.
Group operations are carried out through subsidiaries, statements is mainly held at cost.
It is not practicable to estimate the value associates and joint ventures.
The principal subsidiaries, associates and of such land and mineral rights, since these principally depend on product joint ventures that make up the Group are set out in Notes 16 to 18 to the prices over the long term and will vary with market conditions.
One subsidiary, the Antofagasta Railway Company included in investment properties relates to forestry properties which plc, has a branch in Chile known as the FCAB which provides rail freight theGroup maintains but does not use in any of its existing operations.
This land is held for long-term real estate development and recreational potential and is held in the financial statements at cost.
The fair value Business review ofsuch land is disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements.
The Company is required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to Results and dividends provide a business review in this report.
The requirements of the business review are fulfilled in the disclosures contained within the Chairmans The consolidated profit before tax has decreased from US$3,076.2 million statement on pages 5 to 7, our marketplace section on pages 24 to 26, in 2011 to US$2,754.2 million in 2012. the Operational review including information on expected future developments on pages 34 to 61, the Financial review on pages 62 to 69 The Board has recommended a final dividend of US 90.0 cents 2011 and the Corporate governance report on pages 70 to 93.
A summary of US 36.0 cents per ordinary share, comprising an ordinary dividend of the key performance indicators considered most relevant to the Group is US12.5 cents 2011 US 12.0 cents and a special dividend of US 77.5 on pages 28 and 29.
Information on environmental, employee and social cents 2011 US 24.0 cents.
An ordinary interim dividend of US 8.5 cents and community matters is included within the Sustainability section on was paid on 4 October 2012 2011 ordinary dividend US 8.0 cents.
Information on significant contractual and other Thisgives total dividends per share proposed in relation to 2012 of arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group is included US98.5 cents 2011 US 44.0 cents, including the special dividend.
within this Directors report on pages 89 to 91.
A description of the Thetotal amount of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders including financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, together special dividends proposed in relation to 2012 will be US$971.1 million, with the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, is contained in compared with US$433.8 million in 2011. the Risk management section on pages 30 to 33, and in Note 25 to the Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per financial statements.
There have been no significant events since the annum.
The preference shares are classified within borrowings, and balance sheet date requiring disclosure in the financial statements.
preference dividends are included within finance costs.
The total cost of All the above matters are incorporated into this report by reference.
dividends paid on preference shares and recognised as an expense in the income statement was US$0.2 million 2011 US$0.2 million.
Further Going concern information relating to dividends is set out in the Financial review on page 67, and in Note 12 to the financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with those factors likely to affect its future performance, are set out in the Operational review on pages 34 Political contributions to 61.
Details of the cash flows of the Group during the year, along with its financial position at the year-end are set out in the Financial review on The Group made political donations of US$1.2 million during the year pages 62 to 69.
The financial statements include details of the Groups ended 31 December 2012 in relation to municipal elections in Chile cash, cash equivalent and liquid investment balances in Note 22 to the 2011 nil.
These donations were made via the Chilean Electoral financial statements, and details of borrowings are set out in Note 23 to Management Body, which anonymously transfers funds to political the financial statements.
Details of the Groups financial risk management, partiesand candidates.
including details of the management of liquidity and counterparty risk, areset out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Charitable contributions In assessing the Groups going concern status, the Directors, with The Group made charitable contributions of US$3.6 million during the detailed assistance from the Audit and Risk Committee, have taken into year ended 31 January 2012 2011 US$11.2 million.
The donations account the above factors, including the financial position of the Group include amounts paid to a variety of local initiatives in the regions and in particular its significant balance of cash, cash equivalents and surrounding the Groups operations.
This amount also includes liquid investments, the borrowing facilities in place and their terms, the US$40,000 2011 US$52,000 of charitable donations in the United currentcopper price and market expectations in the medium term, Kingdom, principally related to educational studies with a focus on Chile.
theGroups expected operating cost profile and its capital expenditure and financing plans.
Governance 90 Directors report Supplier payment policy and creditor days Capital structure The Company acts as a holding company and does not trade in the Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including United Kingdom or elsewhere.
Creditor days for the Group have been details of any movements in the issued share capital during the year, are calculated at 32 days 2011 46 days.
Each operating company is shown in Note 30 to the financial statements.
The Company has one responsible for agreeing terms of payment with each of their suppliers.
class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each Itis Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting of the Company.
Details ofthe preference share capital are shown in Note 23 to the financial statements.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are Significant relationships entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
The Group has a number of significant contractual or other arrangements The nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital is 96.1% of the total which are essential to its operations and projects: sterling nominal value of all issued share capital, and the nominal value of the issued preference share capital is 3.9% of the total sterling nominal the Group holds a number of mining and exploration rights in Chile and value of all issued share capital.
other countries in which it has exploration or development activities, normally granted by the relevant national government: There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on their a significant proportion of the Groups sales of copper concentrate voting rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the Companys andother payable elements and molybdenum concentrate are made Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable law and under long-term framework agreements with a number of customers.
regulation including, in particular, following a failure to provide the These framework contracts will typically set out the minimum annual Company with information about interests in shares as required by the volumes to be supplied, with the processing charges determined Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of any agreements annually and the pricing of contained material to be in accordance with between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions market prices.
A significant proportion of the Groups copper cathode on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
sales are made under annual contracts with a number of customers.
The Company has the authority to purchase up to 98,585,669 of its own These contracts will typically specify the volumes to be supplied, with ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
the pricing to be in accordance with market prices.
Further details of With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the such arrangements are given in Note 25 to the financial statements: Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate there are collective labour agreements with each of the labour unions Governance Code 2010, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
These agreements are typically of between The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the three and four years duration.
Several of these labour unions are shareholders.
There are no significant agreements in place which take affiliated with the Federacin Minera fide Chile: effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
There the Group has contracts with a number of suppliers to sub-contract are no agreements in place between the Company and its Directors or certain services at each of its mine sites, including vehicle and employees which provide forcompensation for loss of office resulting equipment maintenance and other logistical services.
In addition, the from a change of control ofthe Company.
Group has a number of medium-term and long-term contracts for the supply of key inputs such as electricity, sulphuric acid, oil and explosives with a number of suppliers: tax invariability agreements are in place in respect of the Groups mining operations which provide that specified rates will apply in respect of the mining royalty for specified periods: in 2003 the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, supplying domestic and industrial users.
The domestic tariffs are controlled by theChilean Water Regulator.
Further details are given in Note 35 to thefinancial statements: the transport division has long-term contracts with a number of customers, which typically govern volumes and pricing structures: and the Group has shareholder agreements in place governing its relationship with its partners at its operations and development and exploration projects.
The Group also has a number of earn-in agreements in respect of exploration and development projects.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 91 Directors interests and indemnities Substantial shareholdings Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, remuneration As at 31 December 2012 and 11 March 2013, the following significant and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of the Company as at holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been 31 December 2012 are given in the Remuneration report.
No Director had disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: any material interest in a contract of significance other than a service Ordinary share Preference Total share contract with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Table of substantial capital share capital capital shareholdings % % % In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities personally incurred Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Blackrock Inc. 5.10 4.24 Directors may or may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
This policy has been renewed for the current financial year.
Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic Conflicts of interest family are interested.
As explained in Note 40 to the Financial statements, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate parent company of the Group The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a situation and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate parent company.
Aureberg where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Establishment is controlled by Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
undertaken a process to identify, and, where appropriate, authorise and By order of the Board manage potential and actual conflicts.
Each Director has identified his interests which may constitute conflicts including, for example, directorships in other companies.
The Board has considered the potential and actual conflict situations of each of the Directors and decided in relation to each situation whether to authorise it and the steps, if any, which need to be taken to manage it.
The authorisation process is not For and on behalf of regarded as a substitute for managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of actual and Petershill Secretaries Limited potential conflicts of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required Company Secretary to notify the Company of any material changes in those positions or 11 March 2013 situations that have already been considered, as well as to notify the Company of any other new positions or situations that may arise.
In addition to considering any new situations as they arise, the Board considers the conflict position of all Directors formally each year.
