Governance 72 Board of Directors Jean-Paul Luksic Gonzalo Menndez Executive Chairman 48 Non-Executive Director 64 Committees: Nomination C Appointed to the Board 1985 Appointed to the Board 1990 Gonzalo Menndez has extensive experience in commercial and Jean-Paul Luksic has over 20 years financial businesses across of experience with Antofagasta.
Priorto his appointment as Chairman in 2004 he was Chief Executive He holds a degree in business Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. administration from the Universidad in whichcapacity he oversaw the fide Chile and is a public accountant.
development of the Los Pelambres He is a director of several companies and El Tesoro mines.
He plays a key including Quienco S. A. and Banco fide Chile and is chairman of the board of role in shaping the strategic direction of the Group, and leading the Board.
directors of Banco Latinoamericano fide Comercio Exterior S. A. Bladex.
He chairs the Business Development Committee, which focuses on the mining divisions growth opportunities.
degree in management and science from the London Non-Executive Director 59 School of Economics.
Committees: Sustainability and Stakeholder Management C He is chairman of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing thelargest international mining companies operating inChile, and is a Appointed to the Board 2003 non-executive director of Quienco S. A. Ramn Jara is a lawyer with wide-ranging legal and commercial William Hayes experience in Chile.
Non-Executive Director & Senior Independent Director 68 He is a directorof several companies including Empresa Nacional del Committees: Audit and Risk C, Remuneration and Talent, Nomination Petrleo.
He is chairman of the Appointed to the Board 2006 Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres William Hayes is the Senior and a director of the Fundacin Independent Director.
He has held a Andrnico Luksic A. which are charitable foundations in Chile.
wide range of finance and operational roles in the copper and gold mining Guillermo Luksic industries, in Chile and North Non-Executive Director 57 America.
He was previously a senior executive with Placer Dome Inc. from Appointed to the Board 2005 1988 to 2006.
He is a former Guillermo Luksic has considerable president of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing the largest experience across a range of international mining companies operating in Chile, and former president of commercial and industrial sectors the Gold Institute in Washington, D. C. inChile.
He holds an M. A. degree in International Management from the Thunderbird He is a director of several companies School of Global Management.
including Nexans S. A. and Banco fide He is a director of Royal Gold Inc. Chile andchairman of Quienco S. A. Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 73 Juan Claro Tim Baker Non-Executive Director 62 Non-Executive Director 60 Committees: Remuneration and Talent, Nomination, Sustainability and Committees: Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Talent C, Stakeholder Management Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Appointed to the Board 2005 Appointed to the Board 2011 Juan Claro has extensive industrial Tim Baker has significant mining experience in Chile, and has played operational experience, across an active role in the representation of Northand South America and Chilean industrial interests within the Africa.
He was previously executive country and internationally.
vice-president and chief operating officer at Kinross Gold Corporation, He is a former chairman of the and prior to that was executive Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chilean general manager of Placer Dome Society of Industrialists, the Chile.
He has previously managed mining operations in Chile, the United Confederacin fide la Produccin y del Comercio Confederation of Chilean States, Tanzania and Venezuela and held geological and production roles Business and the Consejo Binacional fide Negocios Chile-China Council for inKenya and Liberia.
in Geology from Edinburgh University.
He is currently chairman of Embotelladora Andina S. A. and Energia Coyanco S. A. and is a director of several other companies in Chile, including Entel He is executive chairman of Golden Star Resources Ltd. and a director of Chile S. A. and Empresas CMPC S. A.
He is also a member of the governing AugustaResource Corporation and Pacific RimMining Corporation.
boards of Universidad Adolfo Ibez and Centro fide Estudios Pblicos, a non-profit academic foundation in Chile.
Manuel Lino Silva fide Sousa-Oliveira Ollie Oliveira Non-Executive Director 61 Hugo Dryland Committees: Audit and Risk Non-Executive Director 57 Appointed to the Board 2011 Appointed to the Board 2011 Ollie Oliveira has over 30 years Hugo Dryland has extensive experience in the mining industry, expertise in corporate finance and incorporate finance, operational and mergers and acquisitions within the strategic roles.
He held various senior mining sector, with over 25 years of executive positions within the Anglo investment banking experience in American group and the fide Beers natural resources with Rothschild.
group, including Executive Director Prior to joining Rothschild he Corporate Finance and Head of practised law in the United States, Strategy and Business Development of fide Beers S. A. specialising in the natural resources and infrastructure sectors.
He holds a B. Com degree from the University of Natal Durban with He holds Masters Degrees in Business and Comparative Law from postgraduate qualifications in Accounting and Economics.
He is a Chartered theUniversity of Warwick UK and the George Washington University Accountant CA SA and Chartered Management Accountant FCMA.
He is a director of several companies including Ferrous Resources Limited.
He is a vice-chairman at Rothschild and isglobal head of Rothschilds investment banking activities in the mining and metals sector.
Nelson Pizarro Non-Executive Director 72 Appointed to the Board 2012 Nelson Pizarro is a mining engineer and has held various senior executive positions in the mining sector in Chile, both in project and operational roles.
Previous roles include CEO of Division Andina and Chuquicamata both for Codelco.
Between 1997 and 2003 he worked for the Antofagasta Group, firstly as CEO of Minera Los Pelambres during its construction and start-up, and then as mining vice-president of Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
He is currently CEO of Minera Lumina Copper Chile S. A. and is in charge ofthe construction of the Caserones Project.
