Directors and Ofcers Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 79 Alan White 57 Dean Moore 54 Non-executive Chairman c Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed a director and Chairman in 1968.
Chief Executive since 2002, having been CFO Appointed in November 2003.
Previously Formerly Chairman of Coats Viyella Plc.
In between he was CFO Group Finance Director at T&S Stores Plc He is also a director of a number of private for Littlewoods plc.
Qualified as a chartered and Graham Group Plc.
Also held various companies, and was appointed a life peer accountant with Arthur Andersen and held a roles with Lloyds Chemist Plc, Sketchley Plc, in 2004. senior financial role with Sharp Electronics.
Blue Circle Industries and Grant Thornton.
Also a non-executive director of Topps Tiles plc and a member of the CBI North West Regional Council and other business groups.
Nigel Alliance OBE 77 Ivan Fallon 67 Lord Stone of Blackheath 69 Non-executive Director Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director a, b, c Non-executive Director a, b, c Appointed a director in 1969, he changed to Appointed a director in 2002.
Formerly with non-executive status in 1995.
He is also a Appointed a director in 1994 and Deputy Marks & Spencer Plc until he retired as Joint director of a number of private companies.
He was Chief Managing Director in 1999.
Currently Chairman Executive of Independent News & Media of Falcon Power Holdings and the international UK until March 2010 and a leading financial health charity DIPEx.
Chairman of the remuneration nomination committee.
John McGuire 63 Anna Ford 68 Philip Harland 56 Non-executive Director a, b, c Non-executive Director a, b, c Company Secretary Appointed a director in March 2004.
Formerly Appointed a director on 1 March 2009.
Previously Chairman of Corporate Banking for Royal Bank Non-executive director of J Sainsbury Plc, a commercial lawyer in private practice in of Scotland Group in the North of England and also Chair of their Corporate Responsibility Manchester, then company secretary and Midland regions.
Vice Chairman of Royal Bank Committee and member of the Remuneration associate director of legal services at GUS of Scotland Pension Fund Trustee Ltd.
Honorary bencher of Middle Temple.
Admitted as a solicitor Chair of Stockport NHS Foundation Trust.
Non-executive Director and Chairman of Investment Advisory Panel for North West Business Finance Ltd.
Member General Assembly of The University of Manchester.
Chairman of the audit committee.
a Audit committee member b Remuneration committee member c Nomination committee member 16 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial Statements THE FACTS AND FIGURES Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Report 24 Remuneration Report 29 Independent uditors Report Group ccounts 39 Consolidated Income Statement 40 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 40 Consolidated Balance Sheet 41 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 42 Reconciliation of Operating profit to 5et Cash from Operating ctivities 42 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 43 5otes to the Group ccounts 44 Independent uditors Report Company ccounts 68 Company Balance Sheet 69 5otes to the Company ccounts 70 Shareholder Information IBC N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17
