Directors Report Directors Report As required by the Code, pages 4 to 15 Annual general meeting The directors present their annual report provide an explanation of the basis on The annual general meeting will be held on and accounts for the 53 weeks ended which the company generates value and Tuesday, 3 July 2012.
The notice convening 3 March 2012. preserves it over the long-term and its the annual general meeting will be sent strategy for delivering its objectives.
to members by way of separate circular.
Activities and results Explanatory notes on each resolution to be The principal activity of the group is Dividends and reserves proposed at the meeting will accompany retailing through direct home shopping.
An interim dividend of 5.29p per share the circular.
The activities are more fully explained and 2011, 5.04p was paid on the ordinary reviewed in the Chief Executives Review shares of the company on 6 January 2012.
Group profit before The net cost of this dividend was 14.7m The biographies of the directors, all of taxation from continuing operations for the 2011, 13.8m.
whom served throughout the year, are 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 amounted shown on page 16.
No geographical The directors recommend a final dividend appointment and replacement of directors, segmentation is provided because, other of 7.74p per share 2011, 7.37p for the 53 the company is governed by its Articles of than small operations in the Republic of weeks ended 3 March 2012, the net cost Association, the UK Corporate Governance Ireland, Germany and the United States, all of which will be 21.5m 2011, 20.3m.
Code and the Companies Act.
activities take place in the United Kingdom.
The dividend will be paid on 27 July 2012.
Details of directors interests beneficial Enhanced business review Movements in reserves are shown in the and non-beneficial in shares of the The company is required by the Statement of Changes in Equity on page 43. company are given in the Remuneration Companies Act 2006 Companies Act Report on page 38 and are deemed to to set out in this report a fair review of Acquisitions and disposals be incorporated into this report by the business of the group during the In the year under review there were no cross-reference.
53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 and the corporate acquisitions or disposals.
position of the group at the end of that The powers of directors are described period.
The company is also required Share capital in the board terms of reference and the to set out a description of the principal Details of the companys authorised and Corporate Governance Report on page 24. risks and uncertainties facing the issued share capital are shown in note group.
The information fulfilling these 22 on page 61.
The company has one No director had any interest in any requirements can be found within this class of ordinary shares which carry no disclosable contract or arrangements, report, the Chairmans Statement, the fixed income.
Each share carries the right other than a contract of service, with the Chief Executives Review and the Financial to one vote at general meetings of the company or any subsidiary company either Review pages 8 to 15, all of which company.
There are no specific restrictions during or at the end of the year.
information is incorporated by crosson the size of a holding nor on the transfer reference into this report.
of shares which are both governed by Directors and officers liabilities the general provisions of the Articles of The group maintains insurance for directors The board continuously strives to identify Association and prevailing legislation and officers of the group, indemnifying and review key business risks and except as set out below in the section them against certain liabilities incurred by monitors a number of financial and nonentitled Voting Rights and Restrictions them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
No person has any special Major shareholders The financial KPIs are detailed on page rights over the companys share capital and 14 and non-financial KPIs are discussed all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition to the directors shareholdings shown in the Remuneration Report on further below.
The board oversees the development of processes to manage risks Details of outstanding employee share page 38 and in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency appropriately.
The executive directors and options and the operation of the relevant operating board directors implement and schemes are shown in note 27 on page 63.
Rules, the following notifications had been received from holders of notifiable interests oversee risk management processes and report to the board on them.
in the companys issued share capital at 30 April 2012: Holding % of issued share capital INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 18,900,603 6.67 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 18,345,773 6.47 18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report Environmental, social and and internal company policy: Environment governance issues  The continuous improvement of our culture which promotes sound environmental performance is integral Governance and risk management ethical conduct at all levels within the to the success and future sustainability The board is committed to maintaining organisation: of the operations.
We are committed high standards of corporate governance.
 WHICH to minimising any damage which our The company monitors and evaluates could cause a conflict of interest or activities may cause to the environment.
risk on an on-going basis as part of its damage to the groups reputation: and Day to day responsibility for sustainability commitment to sustainable business.
 WORKING vests in Ian Carr, director of logistics, Further details are contained in the environment in which praise and who sits on the operational board of Corporate Governance Report on recognition play key roles.
J. D. Williams & Company Limited and pages 24 to 28. who reports to the Chief Executive and, Directors of all group companies are through him, to the board of directors.
Ethical standards required to disclose details of related party The board regards the maintenance of the transactions for review and authorisation Since 2007, the group has been actively highest ethical standards in business as an by the audit committee and by the board.
working with its environmental partners, essential characteristic of the way in which Envantage Ltd and Viridor Ltd to minimise the group conducts all of its business.
A Gifts and Hospitality register exists Green House Gas GHG emissions, A code of ethical conduct covering which requires all employees to record any reduce energy and water consumption, commercial standards, bribery and gift or hospitality offered by suppliers and minimise waste and increase groupcorruption, conflicts of interest, gifts and other parties.
Monthly returns are required wide environmental awareness and hospitality has been adopted by the group.
from all directors and employees declaring accountability.
Investment in energy All senior managers and employees of the any offer with a value of 25 or more, and efficiency and water minimisation group are required to comply with both the stating whether an offer was accepted or technologies has led to significant letter and the spirit of the code in all their declined.
achievements since 2007. dealings for and on behalf of the group.
A whistleblowing policy and confidential The tables below illustrate our In dealings with each other, shareholders, hotline provides employees with a environmental achievements since customers, suppliers, competitors, secure and private means of reporting 2007 to date: regulatory authorities and the wider any ethical concerns that they may community, all employees are required to: have regarding the way the group or any employee is behaving in day-to-day  INTEGRITY activities.
No whistleblowing events were respect and fairness: reported in the year.
 REGULATIONS Energy and emissions Absolute reduction GHG emissions reduction % reduction 1 from base year from base year tCO2e Electricity 840,214 kWh 312 3% Natural Gas 1,443,351 kWh 274 11% Diesel 16,157 Litres 43 10% Total GHG tCO2 reduction 629 5% Reduction from base year % reduction 2 3 Water 15,638 m 36% Achieved percentage of recycled waste 2011-2012 3 99.8% 1.
The groups base year has been recalculated to take into account the acquisition of Figleaves Global Trading Ltd and High and Mighty Ltd and the divestment of Zendor in line with the GHG protocol base year recalculation guidelines.
Based on metered sites and available data provided to Envantage Ltd. 3.
Retail sites are currently excluded from this data.
The aim is to include 100% of group sites by Autumn 2013 and to achieve 100% recycling across the group by 2015.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19 Directors Report Qualitative measures the groups various share option and long opposed to all forms of discrimination, In addition to the outlined quantitative term incentive schemes.
A large proportion including those on the grounds of colour, achievements above, the group has of the groups training and development race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, also been working on several other work is delivered by the HR learning and religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, qualitative key areas to set standards development team, which is supplemented marital status or disability.
for our environmental responsibility and by external training in specialist technical reputation, including the following: and IT training areas where necessary.
Our selection processes for recruitment, promotion, training and development are  As well as individually tailored training, non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in next wave of our carbon abatement there is also a suite of self-training the best interests of employees and the programme: tools available and an online database, group to provide these opportunities to the  simplydevelopment which enables most suitable candidates, and to achieve commuting among staff: employees to access a wide range of a balanced working population spread s! self-development activities, tools and across a diverse range of ethnic origins, Carbon Disclosure Project: information.
s  meter reading technology and analysis As mentioned above, in 2010 the group Applications for employment by software: repeated its business-wide Employee disabled persons are thoroughly and s# Engagement Survey and over 2,300 sympathetically considered, with energy installations, including Solar employees participated.
As a direct result the aptitude of the applicant being PV Voltage Optimisation and Liquid of this survey an employee profit share regarded as foremost.
"In the event of Pressure Amplification: scheme has been introduced to enable any employee becoming disabled during s OINEDTHE""RITISH2ETAIL#ONSORTIUM S employees to feel and benefit in the their employment, every effort is made Climate Change Commitment companys success."
In addition the to ensure that their employment with the programme: companys grading structure has been group continues.
It is the policy of the  enhanced by the introduction of two new group that the training, career development from materials and processes causing grades which allow enhanced career and promotion of disabled persons should, minimum harm to the environment progression and better alignment of pay as far as possible, be identical to that of when either manufactured, processed, and benefits.
In order for these grades to other employees.
recycled or eventually disposed of be introduced a new system for job wherever practicable: evaluation has also been established in - Health and safety.
The health, safety and welfare at work of its employees, s4HEGROUP  consultation with Towers Watson Limited.
from a minimum of 70% recycled paper The addition of an Executive Development contractors and visitors is paramount as is ensuring compliance with all relevant and all other paper used by the business Programme to the companys training plan is sourced from 100% recycled paper: has also been introduced as a result of the legislation.
The group is also committed to best practice initiatives.
The final and most significant catalogues is derived from managed output from the survey has been the exercise against OHSAS 18001 standards has taken place throughout the year and and renewable sources accredited introduction of a more flexible working by the Forest Stewardship Council policy for the companys employees.
has helped define the groups strategy in progressing the focus of health & safety as wherever possible.
Each year the group rewards and a senior management level issue over the coming year, with programmes to include Employees recognises significant contribution from its customer contact centre employees by behavioral safety initiatives to continuously improve the groups health & safety culture.
The Chief Executive has board level inviting them to compete for a nomination responsibility for employment matters.
to receive an award for outstanding Cumulative group accident statistics customer service.
Our success show that for the year in review, reportable accidents under Reporting of Injuries, has been substantially contributed to by an - Consultation.
Constructive relationships engaged, enthusiastic, motivated and wellwith the trade unions that represent the Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences groups employees principally USDAW Regulations 1995 RIDDOR have reduced trained workforce.
Considerable resources are devoted to employee training.
Elements of the group by 22% compared to the same period are covered by a collective bargaining in 2010 11. departmental team briefings are held and an employee engagement survey arrangement with USDAW.
Union membership is encouraged and regular In the year in review, we also saw a 0.5% is conducted regularly, the most recent being in 2010.
A Consultative Forum communication with the union is facilitated reduction in the incidence of accidents per through partnership forums established 1,000 employees compared to the same operates within the logistics division where employees from all levels contribute and on the principle of shared commitment to period in 2010 11.
An internal analysis has business success, employment security shown muscular skeletal injuries to be share ideas that help shape the culture of the business.
The logistics and customer and development with a particular the main category of injury and therefore emphasis on quality of life, openness and manual handling refresher training services divisions covering over 2,000 employees have also achieved Investors in adding value.
programmes have been put in place to improve standards in this area.
People accreditation at Bronze and Silver standard.
Over 500 group employees - Equal opportunities.
The group either hold shares in the company or have supports the principle of equal We endeavour to ensure that all products options awards to acquire them through opportunities in employment and is and services sold by the group or used in 20 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report the workplace are safe and without risk Suppliers the audit plan.
We have worked with some to employees and customers when used The group trades with suppliers from all of our agents and larger suppliers to properly.
over the world, including both developing enable them to audit their own factories.
We have developed audit methodology Customers for them to use, which is relevant to our A key factor of the groups success is the Improving working conditions for all Code of Conduct, and assisted them in quality of its relationship with its customers workers in our supply chain has been incorporating these as part of their normal and their levels of satisfaction with our central to our Ethical Trading Policy which verification process, when selecting new group products and services.
is aligned to the ETI Ethical Trading factories or monitoring existing factories.
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are org.
The ETI is a unique alliance of over We estimate that our risk assessments and conducted, both directly and through third 70 retailers and suppliers, worldwide audits have covered over 448,000 workers.
Enquiries and complaints have trade unions and voluntary organisations.
been pro-actively reduced over recent It encourages partnerships between Our long term supplier-related goals years as a proportion of customer order members to improve the working include: transactions, reflecting the introduction conditions across global supply chains.
of more customer-oriented policies, s$EVELOPINGCOUNTRY REGIONGUIDESASAN processes and product service standards.
Our Code of Conduct includes sections aid for Buying and Merchandise staff Telephone, email and letter contacts on: when visiting new or existing markets: received from customers are analysed %4 S and remedial actions taken to improve 1.
Forced labour working programmes and rolling out any our levels of service.
Child labour relevant learning to our supply base: 3.
Freedom of association and collective s% The group operates both in-house and bargaining benefits of working ethically and outsourced contact centres, predominantly 4.
Reasonable wages and benefits participating in work programmes: and located in the UK.
Reasonable working hours s2AISINGTHEPROFILEOF%THICAL4RADING businesses are supported through local 6.
Equal opportunities within Buying and Merchandising and contact centres in the USA, Germany 7.
No harsh or inhumane treatment other areas of the business.
"Safe and hygienic working conditions The groups policy for the payment of Web self-service capabilities are delivered suppliers is to ensure that all suppliers through a ""my account"" facility for All suppliers are asked to sign up to the know and accept the groups payment customer order and account management principles of the Code of Conduct as a terms."
Payment is made in accordance information.
Web-enabled contact centre prerequisite of doing business with us.
Trade creditors of the capabilities are being deployed to support The Code of Conduct is included in our group at 3 March 2012 represented 40 our web-trading customers, including supplier manual and forms part of our days 2011, 40 days of purchases.
multimedia, web chat, click-to-call and standard terms and conditions.
of Conduct is available in six languages Community relations and we encourage all of our suppliers to The group actively supports the communities in which it operates.
We aim to attract and retain customers display a copy within their factories.
through a competitive product and quality It maintains close links with the Christie Hospital in Manchester and the Retail Trust of customer service offering, regularly Part of our supplier engagement is a monitoring retail and home-shopping self-assessment by suppliers based on and also regularly encourages employees to participate in fundraising activities sector developments to stay ahead of the Code of Conduct.
The results of this the game.
Our speed of answering for self-assessment enables the group to for these, and other worthwhile causes.
The group matches the money raised calls and responding to emails has been carry out an initial risk assessment of the improved and made more consistent.
factory, open dialogue with the factory by employees to double the size of the donation.
Automated speech services handle management and carry out any necessary a significant proportion of customer improvements to working practices.
In 2011 12 a record number of employees telephone payments and parcel collection requests.
We continue to invest in Below is a list of the geographical were involved in charitable events raising more than 134,000 for both national improved speed of product deliveries to distribution of our current suppliers:- our customers and to offer more delivery charities and local good causes.
China 62% service options such as next-day or nominated day of delivery.
Multiple proIndia and Bangladesh 11% The family, health and well-being Other Asia 7% programme, now in its eighth year, active service notification emails are being introduced to inform customers about UK 11% continues to provide support and real European Union 5% assistance for all of our employees.
"Other 4% Charitable and political donations Our overall strategy is to adopt a ""multichannel"" approach to managing our The group has assessed 78% of our During the year, the group made charitable suppliers factories."
We have appointed donations of 71,011 2011, 70,960. customer contacts, with the key aim of a joined-up and consistent customer audit partners and launched an audit No political donations have been made programme for our suppliers.
Our multichannel service platforms will extend to audit all our suppliers sites at least every 2 years and we are currently halfway through our recently launched UK store operations.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 Directors Report Pension fund of their likely impact on the business of plans.
The trustees currently abstain from The group continues to ensure that the the group as a whole.
Executive Directors voting but have the power to vote for or N Brown Group Pension Fund Pension service contracts are terminable by the against, or not at all, at their discretion Fund is managed in accordance with company on giving 12 months notice.
in respect of any shares in the company best practice and current legislation.
There are no agreements between the held in the relevant trust.
The trustees A trustee company, which is controlled by company and its directors or employees may, upon the recommendation of the a board of directors, administers the funds that provide for additional compensation company, accept or reject any offer assets.
One of these is an independent for loss of office or employment that relating to the shares in any way it sees fit, professional trustee and the rest have occurs because of a takeover bid.
without incurring any liability and without a vested interest in the performance of No events were reported in the year.
being required to give reasons for their the fund, representing the interests of decision.
In exercising their trustee powers pension fund members, pensioners and Tax status the trustees may take all of the following N Brown Group plc.
Mercer Investments The company is not a close company matters into account: provides investment advice and fiduciary within the meaning of the Corporation management.
The actuarial and Tax Act 2010. s4HELONG  administration services are provided  by Mercer Limited.
Auditors financial interests: A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as  N Brown Group plc and some of its auditor to the company and to authorise capacity as employees or former associated companies are required to the directors to fix their remuneration will employees or their dependents: indemnify the trustee company and its be proposed at the annual general meeting  WHETHER officers in respect of certain liabilities on 3 July 2012. or not identified who may become incurred by them in the performance of beneficiaries in the future: and their obligations relating to the Pension Voting rights and restrictions on s#ONSIDERATIONOFALOCAL MORAL ETHICAL Fund or in administration of the Pension transfer of shares environmental or social nature.
"This amounts to a ""qualifying None of the ordinary shares carry any indemnity provision"" as defined in section special rights with regard to control of the Going concern 236 of the Companies Act."
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in the financial statements The Pension Fund was closed to new There are no restrictions on transfers of and their opinion is explained in the entrants with effect from 31 January 2002. shares other than: Financial Review on page 15.
New employees joining the group after 31 January 2002 and existing employees s# Liability who had not joined the Pension Fund time to time be imposed by laws or All the information supplied in the as at that date, are entitled to join a regulations such as those relating to Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 9, the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 stakeholder pension scheme providing a insider dealing: defined contribution pension arrangement,  to 13, Financial Review on pages 14 to 15, Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 38 administered by Prudential Stakeholder securities transactions whereby the Pensions.
directors and designated employees and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 24 to 28 form part of this Directors require approval to deal in the Following the results of the 2009 triennial COMPANYgSSHARES AND Report.
Any liability for the information is restricted to the extent prescribed in the actuarial review, the group agreed to pay  2.5m into the Pension Fund each March companys shares has been served with Companies Act 2006. with the aim of paying off the funding a disclosure notice and has failed to shortfall by 2013. provide the company with information Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing concerning interests in those shares.
Financial risk management, objectives the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable and policies The company is not aware of any The group is exposed to certain financial arrangements between shareholders that law and regulations.
risks, namely interest rate risk, currency may result in restrictions on the transfer of risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Information securities or voting rights.
The rights and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each regarding such financial risks is detailed  in note 19 on page 57.
The groups risk ordinary shares are set out in the Articles financial year.
Under that law the directors of Association.
are required to prepare the group management policies and procedures are also discussed in the Financial Review on financial statements in accordance with Employee share schemes International Financial Reporting Standards page 15. rights of control IFRSs as adopted by the European The trustees of the N Brown Group plc Union and have elected to prepare the Change of control There are a number of agreements that Employee Share Ownership Trust and parent company financial statements the trustees of the N Brown Group plc in accordance with United Kingdom take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company such No.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust Generally Accepted Accounting Standards hold shares on trust for the benefit of the and applicable law.
Under company as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements executive directors and employees of the law, the directors must not approve the group, which are used in connection with accounts unless they are satisfied that they and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms  give a true and fair view of the state of 22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report affairs of the company and of the profit or This confirmation is given and should Responsibility statement loss of the company for that period.
be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies We confirm that to the best of our In preparing the parent company financial Act 2006. knowledge: statements, the directors are required to: By order of the board  PREPAREDIN  accordance with the relevant financial then apply them consistently: reporting framework, give a true and  fair view of the assets, liabilities, estimates that are reasonable and financial position and profit or loss prudent: Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor of the company and the undertakings  &23 SAS Secretary included in the consolidation taken as adopted by the European Union have a whole: and been followed, subject to any material 18 May 2012 sTHEMANAGEMENTREPORT WHICHIS departures disclosed and explained in  the financial statements: and includes a fair review of the development  and performance of the business the going concern basis, unless it and the position of the company is inappropriate to presume that the and the undertakings included in the company will continue in business.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks The directors are responsible for keeping and uncertainties that they face.
adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the By order of the board companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Alan White Act.
They are also responsible for Chief Executive safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Dean Moore Finance Director The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 18 May 2012 companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each person who is a director at the date of the approval of this report confirms that:  THEREIS no relevant audit information of which the groups auditors are unaware: and  he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23
