Overview Our business model Driving value for shareholders We have set out a strategy to drive further value from our core bus and coach operations, and from our market opportunities.
Bus UK North America Spain How our business works How our business works How our business works National Express West Midlands is the In North American school bus, the Groups ALSA has a strong position in the market leader in the largest single urban operations are carried out by our subsidiaries, outsourced urban bus market in Spain, network in the UK deregulated market.
Durham School Services US, Petermann operating city bus services on behalf of The deregulated model allows for total US and Stock Transportation Canada.
urban councils and transport consortia.
exibility in both fares and service.
The The outsourced private operator market is The outsourced market in Spain represents business has a high regional market share, only around one third of the total, with the smaller cities and suburban services: with strong competition from multiple remainder being in-sourced: that is, owned the major cities are still run in-house by operators on specic routes.
Modal and run by the school boards themselves.
Contracts competition is principally from private cars.
Contracts typically run from three to five typically last from 10 to 20 years.
Once secured, contracts have low has a fast-growing business in Morocco, revenue risk over the contract life.
running services in Marrakech and Agadir, where ALSA takes revenue risk.
How we build long term value How we build long term value How we build long term value Revenue and profitability are driven by We are the second largest private operator Revenue is driven by contractual obligations the scale of operations delivering frequent, in North America with high contract over fares and kilometres operated.
We reliable and affordable services across retention and a focus on customer service.
manage profit by maintaining a tight control a broad network.
Passenger growth is Management of capital is key: most new over costs.
ALSA continues to target and supported by sustainable investment contracts require investment in new buses win new city contracts in both mainland in a high quality fleet.
and asset utilisation is low, due to the part Spain and Morocco, and is well-positioned time usage of these specialised vehicles.
Scale is beneficial but not overarching economies can be achieved through procurement, centralisation of administration and business development.
Key risks to manage Key risks to manage Key risks to manage t Recovery of higher fuel cost t Recovery of higher fuel cost t Recovery of higher fuel cost t Economy still fragile t Legislation regulatory change t Annualisation of BSOG cut t Ancillary discretionary route reduction t Pensions accounting impact Read more Read more Read more 32 28 24 6 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Our business model National Express operates principally in outsourced public transportation markets.
Growth in these markets is driven by increasing social mobility, GDP and the outsourcing of public provision of services.
The forecast trend is for ongoing deregulation in both developed and developing economies.
The Group uses its operational expertise, experience and accumulated know-how to provide best in class transport services, which in turn drives revenue and profit growth.
There are some economies of scale in procurement, insurance, overhead costs and nancing.
Private transport operators can provide a higher standard of service and better value for money than public or state management.
National Express can leverage this expertise across different modes of transport and in different geographies.
The structurally cash-generative nature of the business, as many of our customers pay in advance, enables us to combine sustainable investment in existing operations with the opportunity to add shareholder value either through high-return growth or the return of capital.
Coach Rail Spain UK UK How our business works How our business works How our business works The intercity coach market in Spain is National Express is the national coach National Express has a strong operational regulated and supported by long term network operator in the UK, offering skills base in UK rail, one of the few concession agreements provided to great value and accessible travel to all.
The UK rail operators in exchange for public service It operates the only scheduled national industry comprises franchises awarded obligations.
Concessions typically run for UK coach network and the largest in on an exclusive operation basis to private 10 to 15 years.
Public transport is seen Europe, in a deregulated market where operators.
Prices are predominantly as an essential service in Spain.
we have exibility over pricing and supply.
regulated and costs are substantially xed Competition is modal, against rail and around track access, rolling stock and Concessions are operated exclusively, private car.
National Express runs 500 franchise payments.
Franchisees therefore resulting in competition being primarily coaches a day serving around 1,000 primarily target passenger volume growth, intermodal, i. e. with rail, low cost airlines domestic destinations.
whilst fullling their service obligations.
and the car, rather than other coach and bus operators where competition is at point of tender.
How we build long term value How we build long term value How we build long term value ALSA is the largest private operator of National Express has a exible, outsourced The Group ran two franchises in 2012, coaches in Spain.
Its portfolio provides business model, where third party operating National Express East Anglia until a balance between: long distance coach providers supply 80% of the coaches February 2012 and c2c throughout the year.
operations, which receive no subsidy and and responsibility for sales lies with the c2c is the UKs best performing franchise.
take revenue risk in return for exibility over company.
With 90% brand recognition, the The Group is now starting to exploit its the number of services operated and a National Express coach business benets rail expertise in deregulating markets regulated maximum fare: and regional coach from its integrated network and scale, outside the UK, particularly in Germany operations which may be partly subsidised offering breadth and interconnectivity, where it has now been selected to run by the autonomous Governments.
where competitors its first two contracts.
offer only point-to-point services with limited infrastructure.
Key risks to manage Key risks to manage Key risks to manage t Recovery of higher fuel cost t Competition rail t Department for Transport bid delays t Threat from RENFE rail t Government policy BSOG elimination t London city employment trends t Weaker consumer demand t Transport law reform Read more Read more Read more 24 36 40 www.
