Governance Directors report The Directors present their report and audited financial Board.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their statements for the year ended 31 December 2012. interests in shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Directors remuneration report on pages Principal activities 64 to 75.
National Express Group PLC is the holding company of the National Express Group of companies.
Its subsidiary Corporate governance companies provide mass passenger transport services A full report on corporate governance can be found in the in the UK and overseas.
Governance section of this document and the Companys corporate governance statement is on page 79.
Both are Business review incorporated by reference into this report.
Reviews of the business, likely future developments and details of principal risks and uncertainties can be found Directors interests in contracts in the following pages and are incorporated by reference Except as stated in note 36 on page 143, no contract existed into this report: during the year in relation to the Companys business in which any Director was materially interested.
t Group Chief Executives review on pages 10 to 13: Post balance sheet events t Finance Directors review on pages 20 to 23: and As at the date of this report, there were no post balance t Governance report on pages 50 to 81. sheet events to report.
Branches outside the UK Employment policies The Company has branches in Spain.
The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and encouraging its employees to be responsive Results and dividends to the needs of its customers and continually improve The profit on ordinary activities before tax from continuing operational performance.
The Group is committed to operations for the year ended 31 December 2012 was providing equality of opportunity to employees and potential 69.8 million 2011: 129.4m and a profit attributable to employees.
This applies to appropriate training, career equity shareholders of 60.0 million 2011: 101.2m was development and promotion for all employees, regardless transferred to reserves.
of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, age or ethnic origin.
All businesses in the Group report The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of diversity data.
6.6 pence per ordinary share 2011: 6.5p which, together with the interim dividend of 3.15 pence per ordinary share Full and fair consideration is given to applications for 20113p, paid on 21 September 2012, gives a total dividend employment received from disabled persons, according for the year of 9.75 pence per share 2011: 9.5p.
Subject to their skills and capabilities.
The services of any existing to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on employee disabled during their period of employment are 17 May 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register of retained wherever possible.
members at the close of business on 26April 2013.
Employee involvement Directors The Group encourages employee involvement in its The Directors of the Company who served during the affairs.
Subsidiary companies produce a range of internal year were: newsletters and circulars which keep employees abreast of developments.
Senior management within the Group meet Jorge Cosmen regularly to review strategic developments and management Miranda Curtis resigned 10 May 2012 conferences are held at Group and business levels to bring our senior managers together to share ideas and develop John Devaney resigned 31 January 2013 policy.
Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions and Dean Finch other employee representatives on a wide range of issues.
Employees are able to share in the Groups results through Sir Andrew Foster various employee share schemes.
Jackie Hunt appointed 13 September 2012 Employee views are also sought through regular employee satisfaction questionnaires, both within business units and Jez Maiden across the Group.
Following such surveys, results are shared Chris Muntwyler with employees and action plans are put in place to deal with issues arising.
The Group encourages innovation from Lee Sander all levels of employees and has a structured programme in Tim Score place known as Make a Difference to develop ideas and track them through to implementation.
Innovation Sponsors, Sir John Armitt joined the Board on 1 January 2013.
He was Agents and Champions are appointed in the business and appointed as Chairman of the Board on 1 February 2013 their work is coordinated by an Innovations Council at Group following the resignation of John Devaney.
For National Express, innovation is a way of life that The appointment and replacement of Directors of the involves and engages our people.
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the The Group also has a well-developed succession planning UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and process in place and succession plans are reviewed by related legislation.
In accordance with the UK Corporate the PLC Board annually.
As a key part of this process, the Governance Code, all the Directors will retire at the Company focuses on emerging talent to ensure the Group upcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The has the right people being developed to meet our future Board is satisfied that each Director is qualied for re-election business needs.
Talent management remains an important by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the priority for the Group.
76 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements by being a shareholder if he or she or any person with an Environmental policy interest in his or her shares has been sent a notice under Information on the Groups environmental initiatives can Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers be found in the Corporate Responsibility review on page upon public companies the power to require information 46 and in the Corporate Responsibility section of the with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or Companys website, nationalexpressgroup.
com, where she or any interested person failed to supply the Company you will nd Corporate Responsibility reports, policies and with the information requested within 14 days after delivery other information.
The Board may also decide that no dividend Charitable and political contributions is payable in respect of those default shares and that no Charitable donations made during the year totalled transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
It is the Groups policy not to restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company make political donations and accordingly none were made of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the in the year.
However, the Company did attend party political information required by the relevant Section 793 notice, conferences during the year for which total expenditure was whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share Creditors payment policy and practice which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion It is the Companys policy to agree terms of payment prior may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services to commencing trade with any supplier and to abide by Authority regards as preventing dealings in shares of that those terms based on the timely submission of satisfactory class from taking place on an open or proper basis.
Directors may likewise refuse any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Trade creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 17 days 2011: 17 days based on The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
t certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed Financial instruments by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : Details of the use by the Company and its subsidiaries of and financial instruments and any related risk management t pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services objectives and policies including hedging policy and Authority whereby certain employees of the Company exposure including price, credit, liquidity or cash ow risk require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys of the Company in connection with such financial shares.
instruments can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Accounts on pages 88 to 145 and are incorporated by The Company is not aware of any agreements between reference into this report.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Major shareholdings Disclosures of major shareholdings notied to the Resolutions will be proposed at the 2013 AGM to authorise Company are shown on page 59 and these disclosures the Directors to exercise all powers to allot shares, or grant are incorporated by reference into this report.
rights for, or to convert any security into, shares, and approve a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Details are set out in the Notice of AGM accompanying Companys shares this document.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in The Company was granted authority at the AGM in 2012 the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital 10% of the issued nominal capital.
The authority was not or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by used during the year.
The authority is renewed annually ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any and approval will be sought at the AGM in 2013 for its such determination, as the Directors may determine.
Further details are set out in the Notice of AGM At 31 December 2012, the Companys issued share accompanying this document.
capital consisted of a single class of ordinary shares with Share schemes a nominal value of 5 pence.
At a general meeting of the First Names Jersey Limited formerly IFG Trust Jersey Company every member has one vote on a show of hands Limited, as Trustee of the National Express Group Employee and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The Notice of benefit Trust, as at 25 February 2013 held 339,070 shares AGM accompanying this document species deadlines for 0.06% of the share capital of the Company for employee exercising voting rights either by proxy or by being present share schemes.
Further details of the Companys employee in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general share schemes can be found in note 7 on page 102 and are meeting.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital incorporated by reference into this report.
The Trustee may of the Company and details of shares issued during the year vote the shares held by the Trust at its discretion.
can be found in note 32 on page 133.
On 6 March 2012, the Company sold its entire holding of The current Association of British Insurers ABI guidance on treasury shares which amounted to a total of 1,668,688 dilution limits provide the overall dilution under all share plans ordinary 5 pence shares nominal value 83,434 in treasury operated by a company should not exceed 10% over a equal to 0.32% of the issued share capital.
ten year period in relation to the Companys share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten year period on No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, executive plans.
National Express share plans operate entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at within ABI recommended guidelines on dilution limits.
a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred www.
com 77 Governance Directors report continued The Groups North American business operates school Articles of Association bus services under contracts with school boards.
Those Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association contracts invariably contain a change of control clause may be made in accordance with the provisions of the for the benefit of the board which would be triggered by Companies Act 2006. a change of control in National Express Group PLC.
While Annual General Meeting no one single school bus contract could be considered The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.00pm significant in the context of the Group turnover, the impact on 9 May 2013 at Kings Place, 90 York Way, London on that turnover in the event that each school board N19AG.
At the Meeting, special resolutions will be proposed exercised its termination right on a change of control would to authorise the Directors to issue shares without applying be significant.
statutory pre-emption rights, to authorise the Company to Directors and employees service contracts make market purchases of its own shares and to authorise There are no agreements between the Company and its the calling of general meetings other than Annual General Directors or employees providing for compensation for Meetings on 14 clear days notice.
Full details are provided loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, in the Notice of Meeting.
If you would like to register any purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because question you may have in advance of the AGM you can of a takeover bid.
do so at agm@nationalexpress.
com or you can write to the Company Secretary at National Express Group PLC, Auditor National Express House, Birmingham Coach Station, Mill Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham B5 6DD.
the Company and to authorise the Directors to x their remuneration will be proposed at the 2013AGM.
Powers of the Directors Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory Disclosure of information to auditor law and to any direction that may be given by the Company The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there in general meeting by special resolution, the business of is no relevant audit information of which the Companys the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may auditor is unaware and that each Director has taken all the exercise all powers of the Company which are not required steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of Material contracts and change of control that information.
This conrmation is given and should be agreements interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 The Company is party to a number of banking agreements of the Companies Act 2006. which allow for notication of change of control within five days of becoming aware of the event following which Risks repayment of outstanding commitments is to be made within A summary of the Companys risk management framework 30days.
and an overview of its principal risks are detailed on pages 43 to 45 and are incorporated by reference into this report.
Under the terms of the 1,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme under which the Company issued Medium Going concern Term Notes MTNs to various institutions on 13 January The Groups business activities, together with the factors 2010 as updated on 19 November 2012, there is a change likely to affect its future development, performance and of control put option such that, upon a change of control position are set out in the Business Review.
The financial event, any holder of any MTN may require the Company position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position to redeem or purchase that MTN.
and borrowing facilities are described in the Group Chief The Company entered into a private placement Note Executives review on pages 10 to 13 and the Finance Purchase Agreement on 30 July 2012 relating to the issue Directors review on pages 20 to 23.
In addition, note 30 by the Company of 78,500,000 4.55% Senior Notes due to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, 16 August 2021.
Under the terms of the Agreement the policies and processes for managing its capital: its Company is required to offer to Note holders to repay to financial risk management objectives: details of its financial them the entire unpaid principal amount and interest thereon instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit upon a change of control.
The Group currently runs one DfT franchise: c2c.
The rail The Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting franchise agreement with DfT contains termination rights and review, which provides information to the Directors for the benefit of DfT which would be triggered by a change which is used to ensure the adequacy of resources available of control in National Express Group PLC.
for the Group to meet its business objectives.
The Groups rail franchisee, c2c, leases its rolling stock The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the and its leases with Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited Company and the Group have adequate resources to contain termination rights for the benefit of the lessor which continue in operational existence for a period of at least would be triggered by a change of control in National 12 months from the date of signing the accounts.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
78 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
