Business review Living our values Our values underpin who we are as a business Our Vision and Values are fundamental to our identity as a business and ensure that we are a responsible corporate citizen.
Our approach Our values Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public Safety transport services that offer excellent value.
More than anything else, we value the safety of our This Vision is supported by four Values.
Our business customers, employees and the public generally.
We should always be safe in everything we do: we will always try harder than anyone else Customers for customers: we will work to be an employer of choice: We will place customers at the heart of our business.
we will play an active role in the local community and will Nobody will try harder for our customers than we do.
respect the environment and meet the challenges presented by climate change.
In addition, all our business should be conducted properly in line with legal, regulatory and other People stakeholder requirements.
Enabling all our people to reach their full potential and to All of our senior management team are tasked with ensuring give their best as individuals and in teams.
that our Vision and Values, business approach and policies are adhered to.
This section of our annual report highlights Community how we manage each of these areas.
Further information We will advance the social, environmental and economic about National Express and corporate responsibility is conditions in the communities where we operate.
published on the Group website nationalexpressgroup.
Managing responsibly Driving Out Harm, a Group-wide safety initiative was Safety developed in 2010 with the aim of embedding a global safety Safety is a key value and is a fundamental priority for any culture throughout our divisions.
Features include regular public transport business.
Ultimate responsibility for managing safety training for our middle managers and supervisors.
our performance rests with Dean Finch, our Group Chief Safety is also viewed throughout the business as being Executive, our Group Safety Director, Alison Forster, and the personal responsibility of every employee.
Additionally all of our divisions are in regular dialogue with peer The Group develops a Health, Safety and Environment Plan group companies, regulators and industry associations and every three years which includes input from each division conduct best practice health and safety knowledge sharing such as setting objectives and quantied targets.
activities with them as a matter of course.
In practice the distinctive nature of our divisional business The Groups health and safety performance has seen material activities means that health and safety presents a different improvements in performance during 2012. significant set of challenges for each one.
Consequently our health and reductions in lost time injury instances were achieved at safety management systems are developed and managed UK Bus, UK Coach and in Spain.
Similar improvements in at this level.
Compliance with our health and safety standards preventable accidents were recorded in Spain, Morocco, is enforced by a rigorous and continuous internal audit North America and at UK Coach.
process and is an essential and prominent feature of our internal reporting throughout the business and at Board level.
46 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Customers Measuring our progress Operational excellence is a key element of our Vision and Values and we aim to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers.
Five Golden Rules have been introduced in 2012 Lost time employee injuries per 1,000 full-time equivalent employees to provide a Group-wide standard for customer service and we strive to ensure that every employee is aware of 80 these requirements.
Staff members are encouraged to 60 be approachable, communicate clearly, be in possession of current information, take personal responsibility for any 40 actions they might take and treat customers courteously and with respect.
20 11 12 This focus on excellence is reected by c2cs achievements.
0 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 Our UK rail franchise holds both the industrys punctuality UK UK Spain Morocco North UK records.
This industry-leading performance was recently Bus Coach America Rail complemented by the National Passenger Survey, published in October 2012 by Passenger Focus, the independent watchdog for rail services.
In the survey c2c was named as Preventable accidents per million miles the most popular franchise in the UK.
Overall passengers rated c2c as the leading franchise in five key categories.
30 25 Passengers also rated c2c as the top London commuter rail franchise in 12 categories including overall satisfaction with 20 the station, service frequency and the speed of the journey.
15 10 Similarly, our UK Bus business increased overall customer 5 satisfaction during 2012 from 80% to 84%, using the Passenger Focus survey methodology.
0 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 UK UK Spain Morocco North Customers expect good communication, and the internet Bus Coach America and social media play an increasingly important part in ensuring that we keep them informed about our services.
An example is the launch in 2012 of Coach Tracker in the UK.
The service allows customers to track their coach in The views of our employees matter.
To gauge engagement real time, anytime and anywhere.
This enables them to see in the business, we conduct separate employee surveys whether the coach is on time and when it is due to arrive at in our divisions.
They examine employee opinion on a a station or stop.
The service also allows customers to check variety of aspects of our business including issues such for information such as an earlier or later departure should as safety, employee morale, working environment and journey plans change.
The 2012 UK Bus survey had a response rate of 55% People up 6% on 2011.
Particularly positive scores were noted Underpinning the delivery of the People value are five people in the following areas: management standards which apply across all of our operations.
They are: t Understanding of personal obligations regarding safety 95%.
t Recruitment excellence to get the right person into the right job at any level in National Express.
t Role played in helping the business achieve its objectives 89%.
t Induction to ensure that every new employee is engaged with our Vision and Values and understands the business, t Safety is taken seriously by the business 87%.
policies, practices, safety rules and standards of the area c2cs latest employee survey was conducted in December in which they work.
2012 and had a response rate of 75%.
t Performance Management to enable all our people to meet and exceed job requirements each year, linked to UK Coach targeted an increase in response rates to its own core values.
survey, which is undertaken twice annually.
This led to an improvement in participation from 49% to 88% and overall t Talent Management to ensure all our people reach their employee satisfaction increased slightly during a challenging full potential in National Express.
t Workplace rights to sustain an open, fair and supportive environment for all those who work for our company.
Each area of the business has nominated one of their team as an engagement champion and this team of 25 Compliance with our policies and our people management champions have been instrumental in raising the prole standards is monitored at divisional level through employee of the survey, encouraging responses, communicating feedback including the whistleblowing mechanism, the results and holding focus groups to ensure the customer feedback and internal human resources resulting action plans achieved the desired results.
Local action plans are in place in all areas of the business as well as a business-wide action plan which addresses the key areas of communication and recognition.
com 47 Business review Living our values continued Safety Customer 97.5% Punctuality PPM MAA 93% Overall journey satisfaction 92%... all of our divisions are in regular dialogue with peer group companies, regulators and Satisfaction with train industry associations and conduct best practice health and safety knowledge sharing activities with them as a matter of course.
Key conclusions from the 2012 from our latest quarterly t Our UK Employee Charity Panel making awards to employee survey in North America included the following: 60 community groups which employees are involved with totalling 18,000. t Employees clearly understand what is expected t Our Routes to Work scheme commits us to lling the of them at work 95.7%.
expected 1,700 job opportunities in our West Midlands t Feedback from employees to managers is acted bus business over the next three years in partnership upon 92.8%.
t Employees understand the goals and priorities of the t Our participation in National Bullying Prevention company 90.7%.
Community t Our support of National School Bus safety week in We recognise the impact we have on the communities North America.
Responsibility for ensuring that our t Our support of the John XXIII Foundation in Spain.
policies concerning the community, including our impact This organisation aims to encourage the personal on the environment, are carried out is split between the development, social inclusion and professional Group head of ce and our divisions.
quali cations of people with learning disabilities.
At Group level, a key development in 2012 in support of the Across the Group we made charitable donations totalling Community value was the launch of the National Express 373,000 in 2012.
Other community activity included our Foundation, an independent charitable trust.
The Foundation continued association with Transaid.
In 2012, four more was created in response to the urban disturbances in the West Midlands driver trainers spent time at the National UK in 2011 and the Group has pledged to provide it with Institute of Transport in Tanzania to help build skills and share at least 500,000 in funding over five years.
This is part of the charitys efforts to improve the road accident rate in Tanzania.
The Foundation provides support to students with challenging personal and financial circumstances to enable In 2012 we continued to make good progress improving them to advance their further and higher education.
It also our environmental performance.
The Health, Safety and provides grants to community groups with social objectives Environment plan requires divisions to prepare their own that support children and young people and promote element and set objectives and quanti ed targets.
In 2012 National Express Group Property and Environment more than 750 young people bene tted as a result of the Director, Stuart Parker, plays a key role in our management Foundation making grants to community groups systems.
This responsibility includes maintaining an up to and awarding bursaries to students.
date corporate register of relevant legislation and standards In the UK, National Express is actively promoting payroll which is circulated regularly to relevant environmental giving and we are aiming to achieve the Gold Quality Mark co-ordinators, providing guidance on the implications of for Payroll Giving.
This is awarded to organisations that forthcoming legislation and providing input into the Group achieve 10% employee participation in payroll giving to Health, Safety and Environment Plan.
charities and demonstrate other support for the programme.
The Group Property and Environment Director The Group believes that it is also important that our divisions provides regular updates to the Boards health, safety interpret our policies through designing activities which and environment committee which is responsible for are relevant to our business and the communities in reviewing and monitoring our environmental systems and which they operate.
Examples of this sort of activity performance.
It also reports periodically to the Board and during 2012 included: makes recommendations on any speci c environmental issues.
Further information on its activities is recorded in the Safety & Environment overview on page 63.
48 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements The Group applies a plan-do-check-review model which UK greenhouse gas emissions tCO e 2 is compatible with established environmental management 600,000 systems such as ISO14001.
It is not a requirement to obtain 500,000 this certi cation although a number of sites have achieved 400,000 this.
The framework is also consistent with the principles of the European Foundation Quality Model EFQM.
300,000 200,000 Each National Express division has assigned a director with 100,000 speci c responsibility for this aspect of our business.
This role includes ensuring that our operations have a systematic 0 10 11 12 approach to ensure, for example, compliance with the relevant legislation, pollution prevention and continual UK site usage mWh improvement in our environmental performance.
Additional 30,000 responsibilities include ensuring that employees have the 25,000 necessary training, support and resources and requiring 20,000 contractors and suppliers to manage environmental issues in line with our policies.
15,000 10,000 In practice, the nature of our divisional activities means that 5,000 environmental and climate change matters present a different set of challenges to each of our businesses.
Consequently 0 10 11 12 10 11 12 they have developed approaches which are tailored to their Electricity Gas areas of impact supported by Group-wide and peer group Source: Utilities database, Grantley Lowe.
An example is the requirement for each business to develop its own environmental policy.
This must comply with the policy of the Group, relevant environmental its policies and the expectations of its stakeholders are met legislation and be reviewed every three years.
For example, our relations with our suppliers are governed by locally constructed purchasing Environmental performance highlights policies and procedures.
These include ensuring that t Group-wide greenhouse gas emissions continue to fall operating companies only source goods and services from and are now less than 50% of 2004 levels.
approved suppliers that have agreements with the company t Key three year key performance indicator targets are or appear on an approved list.
Large projects above being achieved ahead a year ahead of target end 2013.
100,000 require the involvement of Group procurement in These were a 5% reduction in fleet fuel consumption per the purchasing process and speci c Group approval if they vehicle, a 10% reduction in site electricity, gas and gas have a value in excess of 500,000. oil consumption and a 40% reduction in non-hazardous Group compliance with the requirements of the UK waste going to land ll.
Bribery Act is supported by whistleblowing procedures t Zero prosecutions during 2012 for pollution incidents.
which have been developed locally.
For example, in the t The introduction of electric and hybrid vehicles five in UK the company has developed a whistleblowing hotline Spain and 18 on our West Midlands routes, with 30 more procedure which is managed by an independent third party on order.
Callers to a free of charge number are addressed by a trained adviser who will maintain con dentiality if Business conduct requested.
Information obtained through this service is National Express has established rigorous processes and passed by Group management to the appropriate manager procedures at divisional and corporate level to ensure that for investigation.
Community People 95% Of our staff understand their personal obligations regarding safety 89% Of our staff understand their role in helping the business achieve its objectives The funding provided by the National Express Foundation has been invaluable in helping to expand our innovative faith schools linking programme.
Stephen Shashoua, Director, Three Faiths Forum 2012 UK Bus Employee Survey.
