Business review UK Bus Revenue and margin growth continues Revenue in 2012 was 269.0 million 2011: 263.5m and normalised operating profit 34.1 million 2011: 32.7m.
Peter Coates Managing Director, UK Bus KPIs measuring our progress Revenue growth Margin Passenger yield revenue per journey % % 2.2 12.7 0.94 2.5 15 1.0 2.0 12 0.8 1.5 9 0.6 1.0 6 0.4 3 0.5 0.2 0.0 0 0.0 10 11 12 10 11 12 10 11 12 Why we measure Why we measure Why we measure Each National Express division is targeting Normalised operating margin reects Yield per passenger measures value revenue growth as a core driver of value.
operational efficiencies and cost control.
generated by each passenger journey on our network.
2012 performance 2012 performance Overall revenue growth of 2%, as an An increase of 30 basis points in margin 2012 performance increase in commercial income of 3% provided by strong revenue growth and Fare increases at the beginning of the year was offset by a 1% decrease in tight cost control.
resulted in a net yield increase of over 3%.
32 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Results Operational excellence The UK Bus division performed well in 2012, combining Our priority in UK Bus is to continue delivering consistent revenue growth and cost reduction initiatives to deliver an high quality customer service.
In 2012 we improved the increase in profit, despite a reduction in the Bus Service frequency and quality of bus services, increased cost Operators Grant BSOG fuel duty rebate by the UK efficiency and invested in technology on our bus fleet.
Our strategy of fleet investment, encouraging Our focus on service quality was recognised in an increased patronage and improvements in cost efficiency improvement in customer satisfaction of four percentage will support sustainable revenue growth and move us closer points, measured by the Passenger Focus Bus Passenger to best-in-class operating margin.
Across the network, investment in fleet cleaning Total UK Bus revenue grew by over 2% to 269.0 million and presentation, accompanied by an industry-leading 2011: 263.5m.
Commercial revenue increased 3%, anti-social behaviour reduction programme and enhanced supported by fare yield and a growth in college and revenue protection, helped customers feel safer and saw corporate travelcard sales.
Network reviews and fleet a reduction in recorded crime.
improvements led to local growth in passenger demand, We worked closely with Centro, our local Integrated with like-for-like volume slightly higher year-on-year.
Transport Authority, to manage a major rerouting of buses Concession income fell 1% but will see future ination as part of tram extension works in Birmingham city centre, protection under a new agreement through to 2015. without material impact on passenger volumes.
Operating profit continued to improve, growing by over Investment in technology is generating both operational 4%, to 34.1 million 2011: 32.7m.
Operating margin efficiencies and passenger benets.
In October we opened increased by 30 basis points to 12.7%.
Solid commercial our new Control Centre, utilising automatic vehicle location revenue growth was supported by 9 million of cost and to monitor and direct buses in service, improving punctuality procurement efficiencies.
Together these more than offset by up to 7% in December.
Nine of our depots now have the impact of a 4 million reduction in BSOG, which was green technology, utilising photovoltaic electric cells absorbed without a specic fare increase.
to reduce power consumption and winning a Gold Carbon Saver award.
Passenger journeys Mileage Lost time injuries per 1,000 FTE m m 271.6 69.2 22.8 300 80 50 70 250 40 60 200 50 30 150 40 20 30 100 20 10 50 10 0 0 0 10 11 12 10 11 12 10 11 12 Why we measure Why we measure Why we measure Passenger journeys are reective of Mileage is both a key cost management tool Safety is a key National Express value, with a underlying demand for bus travel.
National and also an indicator of organic growth.
Group-wide objective of reducing injuries to Express is targeting increased passenger employees and making our customers feel 2012 performance ridership as a long term driver of secure.
This will support sustainable revenue A 1% decrease as a consequence of sustainable value.
growth and save costs maintenance, removing unprofitable frequencies and insurance, claims.
2012 performance parts of the network.
Overall decrease in passengers, primarily 2012 performance driven by senior citizens and mileage The first full year of Driving Out Harm has reductions.
Good passenger growth reduced long term injuries by 45%.
com 33 Business review UK Bus continued Market overview Customers Market size Over 90% of West Midlands network is commercial: remainder mostly public service tenders.
Around 75% of revenue from passengers, balance concessionary.
Passenger fares Concessions Privatised Non-privatised Competition Active competition from national and local operators, as well Market share as private car.
1,660 buses operated in the fleet.
Labour Focused on the West Midlands and Dundee markets.
Primarily unionised with strong industrial relations.
Market composition Growth Largest five operators represent around 70% of the UK market.
Growth strategy is focused on increasing passenger volumes through investment in vehicles and technology, as well as Remainder made up of a large number of private operators.
Market trends UK Bus revenue split Short term economic pressures from austerity and local unemployment.
Longer term economic regeneration and  public transport growth opportunities over the car.
Market features Primarily deregulated market: vehicle regulatory oversight.
Low barriers to entry exibility and scale of operations is key.
Passenger Contract Subsidy Other Procurement savings were delivered in vehicle parts and We are piloting the extension of smart cards from lean engineering continues to be implemented across our concession travellers to commercial passengers in Dundee.
On-board telemetry and monitoring of Along with mobile internet and smartphone applications, driving style is improving vehicle efficiency.
We have reached this is expected to stimulate patronage growth through a driver wage agreement based on a 2.5% annual increase more exible ticket offers.
Network reviews in Coventry and Sandwell improved service frequency and ensured customers were better Growth served, resulting in passenger numbers locally increasing by Commercial revenue growth of 3% benefitted from a new 4% by the end of 2012.
This built on sustained improvements programme which delivered a 50% increase in corporate from previous reviews in Wolverhampton, Walsall and and student travelcard sales, the latter tapping strong local East Birmingham, which have delivered growth rates growth in college enrolment.
We also continue to innovate of 2% to 5%.
with our fares strategy, encouraging differentiation and segmentation in the market.
The 1 inner city hop proved particularly popular, alongside family and unlimited evening travel products.
34 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Our investment in new vehicles saw 130 buses purchased Living our values for the network in 2012.
With deployment focused on high volume, high frequency corridors, these have proved popular with passengers.
Our average fleet age has decreased to less than nine years.
Building on our close working relationship with Centro, we are supporting enhancement of the integrated public transport system in the West Midlands.
This partnership delivers modern,  bus services from National Express and investment in bus infrastructure and customer information from Centro.
The three-year agreement on concessions which protects funding for senior citizens and students is part of this partnership.
During the year we also agreed an extension to our operations on the Midland Metro tram system until 2018.
Cash generation Operating cash conversion was 61% in 2012, re ecting capital expenditure of 30 million, more than twice depreciation.
Annual investment in fleet is expected to continue at around 25 million, delivering fleet upgrades and modernisation, which in turn should lead to increased patronage.
Future prospects The bus market continues to be attractive.
National Express is the market leader in the UKs biggest deregulated bus region, where 90% of the population live within 250 metres of a bus stop.
2013 will see National Express continue to build on the progress made over the past three years.
We will build passenger volume growth.
We will continue to invest, with over 100 buses to be introduced in 2013, as well as improve fleet turnout and punctuality.
The roll out of new technology will continue, with smart cards and real-time passenger information delivered at bus stops and via mobile applications.
Increased fuel costs will present a headwind but cost ef ciency gains will help to mitigate this.
This will continue to be a business that generates a strong return on capital for the Group.
Strategic focus Community We believe that we can grow revenue and passenger volumes in particular by getting the essential hygiene National Express is committed to improving the social and economic conditions factors right.
This means providing a reliable and on-time of the local communities in which it operates.
service with a well invested fleet.
We want to explore how This includes providing good quality jobs.
technology is able to help us to do this, through smart cards, passenger information systems or mobile apps.
We are already Birminghams largest private sector employer by some way employing around 6,000 people across the West Midlands.
Our Digbeth headquarters are in the parliamentary constituency of Ladywood, which has the highest jobless bene t claimant count in the country.
Yet it is home to 1,000 National Express staff.
In April, we launched a new jobs initiative Routes to Work which commits Our priority in UK Bus us to providing 1,700 new job opportunities in the Bus business over three years.
By the end of 2012 we had already taken on 650 new people.
is to continue delivering As part of the programme, we are working with local Job Centres to provide pre-interview training for candidates who might need a con dence boost after consistent high quality a period of unemployment.
New entrants are helped to achieve NVQs in literacy and numeracy, as well as all the training they need to obtain the Driver Certi cate customer service.
of Professional Competence which is now required by all professional bus and coach drivers.
This is a highly transferable quali cation.
Many of the jobs under Routes to Work are as bus drivers, replacing workers as they retire.
But at least 120 are completely new jobs.
We have, for example, doubled the size of our revenue protection team in the West Midlands, and have installed and staffed the largest GPS tracking system in the country, which will help to improve the service we provide our communities.
