Business review Spain Resilient to austerity pressures Revenue for ALSA in 2012 was 535.0 million 2011: 551.1m and normalised operating profit 83.8 million 2011: 90.1m.
In local currency, revenue was 659.1 million 2011: 635.4m and normalised operating profit was 103.3 million 2011: 103.9m.
Javier Carbajo Chief Executive, ALSA KPIs measuring our progress Revenue growth Margin Passenger journeys % % m 4 15.7 242.3 20 250 4 200 3 15 150 2 10 100 1 5 50 0 0 0 10 11 12 10 11 12 10 11 12 Why we measure Why we measure Why we measure Each National Express division is targeting Normalised operating margin reects Passenger journeys are reective revenue growth as a core driver of value.
operational efficiencies and cost control.
of underlying demand for bus and coach travel.
National Express is 2012 performance 2012 performance targeting increased passenger Underlying revenue growth in Urban Spain Flexibility in matching supply to demand ridership as a long term driver and Morocco and new contracts and protected divisional margins.
acquisitions, such as Bilbao, have offset a decrease in underlying Intercity revenue.
2012 performance Increase in total journeys from Local currency.
underlying growth in Morocco, plus new Bilbao operations.
24 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Cash generation was very strong, increasing by 73 million Results year-on-year to 125 million.
Much of this was from improved ALSAs performance was resilient in the face of a difficult working capital, mainly in cash collection from municipalities.
year, growing revenue by 4% and holding profit almost at at 103.3 million.
Set against the background of Total revenue in the intercity coach business was at: economic uncertainty and austerity measures in Spain, underlying revenue fell 2% reecting lower passenger this highlights the quality of the divisions management volumes in the third quarter, as lower discretionary and its mix of businesses.
expenditure reduced summer travel, a trend which has been maintained since.
A concession was secured, serving Total revenue at ALSA grew by 4% in local currency a 3% routes around Pamplona.
By contrast, underlying urban decrease in Sterling terms to 659.1 million 2011: 635.4m.
bus revenue in Spain grew by 4%, and 21% overall with the The growth was generated by a strong performance in the acquisition of a major contract in Bilbao, whilst underlying urban bus business in Spain and Morocco, whilst a decline bus revenue in Morocco grew by 19%, benefitting from a in the intercity coach business was offset by new wins and new contract and network review.
Revenue in the non-core auxiliary operations declined by 15%, in line with the wider economic situation, but remains profitable.
Operating profit in local currency was 103.3 million These results highlight the quality 2011: 103.9m, with the improved revenue and lower costs offsetting a 9 million impact from fuel.
A weaker of the divisions management Euro reduced Sterling profit by 7% 6 million to 83.8 million 2011: 90.1m.
The operating margin remains best-in-class for a bus and coach operation.
and its mix of businesses.
Mileage Revenue per km Lost time injuries per 1,000 FTE km 292.6 1.84 23.1 300 2.5 50 250 2.0 40 200 1.5 30 150 1.0 20 100 0.5 10 50 0 0.0 0 10 11 12 10 11 12 10 11 12 Why we measure Why we measure Why we measure Mileage is a both a key cost management With a regulated maximum fare, this Safety is a key National Express value, tool and also an indicator of organic growth.
measures the effectiveness of our fares with a Group-wide objective of reducing The ALSA model allows for exibility in strategy as we ex mileage to meet demand.
injuries to employees and making our kilometres operated to match demand.
This will support 2012 performance sustainable revenue growth and save 2012 performance An increase delivered by cuts in underlying costs maintenance, insurance, claims.
Total mileage increased as a result of new mileage and price increases of 2% in business, such as in Pamplona and Bilbao.
2012 performance Underlying Intercity mileage decreased 4% A 41% reduction as a result of and Urban Spain by 3%.
major investment in the safety improvement programme.
com 25 Business review Spain continued Market overview Market size Concessions 3.5bn 172 Regulated bus and intercity coach market.
ALSA has 141 intercity coach concessions, 31 urban bus contracts and one other concession.
Market composition ALSA has the leading position in a highly fragmented market.
Group revenue by market Market trends Intercity coach concessions Slight decline in bus and coach market passenger volumes since Urban bus contracts mid 2012, re ecting resilience in public transport trends compared Other concessions to other modes of transport and wider austerity impact in Spain.
Market features Labour Regulated and highly segmented market, with three levels of Historically less exible labour market re ecting domestic practices: Government regulation: national long distance coach, regional unionised.
Austerity measures driving some reform.
regional coach and city urban bus.
Each concession is exclusive to the operator, based on compliance with the public service Growth obligation.
Flexibility required to meet changing demand.
New business growth from concession renewal, urban contract wins in Spain and Morocco.
Customers Urban: all ages, work and study, multiple trips per week.
ALSA revenue split Intercity: mostly young people, few trips per year: for leisure, visiting family: on regional services also work and study.
Passenger Contract Competition Subsidy Intercity competition from state-backed rail and low cost airlines Other cutting capacity in 2013.
Bus and coach concessions are awarded through competitive public tender, typically every ten years.
Operational excellence Growth Given the challenging economic backdrop and increased Growth opportunities are high on the agenda.
The urban fuel costs, ALSA responded by carefully matching mileage business in Morocco increased patronage by 15%, securing operated to customer demand, reducing overhead costs, a new contract and completing a highly effective network identifying new opportunities and delivering a quality service review in Agadir.
Over time we anticipate that further cities to maximise contract bonus potential.
in both Spain and Morocco will look to outsource bus transportation and there will be opportunities as some ALSAs ability to manage supply to meet uctuating demand competitors are unable to continue to fund services and on a daily basis, by adding or removing services in real time, capital requirements.
protected margins in the intercity business in particular, where underlying mileage was reduced to match demand.
During the year we renewed the contract to operate In urban bus in Spain we reduced marginal services to Granada bus station, as well as competitively winning the accommodate customer budgetary requests.
In return, Guadalajara urban tender.
We obtained a five year extension future investment requirements have been reviewed and to the Marrakech bus contract.
We also acquired, at low deferred.
Improvements introduced by the Government in cost, some bolt-on investments that are expected to labour exibility have helped to restrain wages, and ef ciency add value over time, such as a contract in Bilbao.
bene ts have been achieved.
Major improvements have been made in safety during the year and lost time injuries in Spain improved by 41%.
Signi cant progress has also been made in Morocco.
26 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Cash generation Living our values In June we received 25 million through a central Government scheme to clear overdue local authority debt.
In addition, we have continued to maintain tight control over working capital.
Total receivables at the year end were 35 million against a peak of 64 million in the first quarter, and overdue amounts are now only 8 million against 21m at the end of 2011.
Future prospects The bus and coach market in Spain continues to be fundamentally attractive.
Provision of public transport is a key social commitment by the Government and a combination of ALSAs high level of investment in fleet and technology, its reputation for quality of operations and its financial strength make it a best-in-class participant in that market.
The Governments national intercity coach concession tendering process has also recently restarted after a delay of 12 months.
ALSA will submit strong and competitive bids in order to retain our franchises.
The first tender has now been submitted and the result is likely to be announced in the coming months.
We expect the Government to continue to adjust the national coach tendering process, including the likely introduction of a fee equal to one percent of revenue on new concession awards as part of a proposed change to transport legislation.
The Spanish Government is also considering further market liberalisation, such as opening the market for rail passenger transportation or replacing loss-making regional rail operations with coach services.
Our reputation and record as Spains highest quality road transport provider would put ALSA in a good position to capitalise on any opportunities.
We expect that the trends from the second half of 2012 will continue for the first six months of 2013, with lower intercity revenue but resilient urban revenue and growth in Morocco.
Further opportunities in Spain and beyond will continue to develop to enhance ALSAs earnings.
Strategic focus Safety Our key objective over the next two years is to renew the intercity concessions due for retendering.
In the intercity Driving Out Harm is a five-year, Group-wide, safety improvement programme, coach and urban bus operations will adjust supply to re ect that is intended to deliver a 50% improvement in our safety performance by 2016. recent market trends, in order to protect pro tability and Each of our businesses has annual targets and the aim is to make our safety improve return on capital.
By winning contracts in Spain record the best in the transport sector.
and Morocco we can continue to deliver good growth, whilst developing exciting opportunities in new territories.
One of the key measures of performance is to cut the number of preventable vehicle accidents for which we are responsible.
Progress last year in ALSA saw the numbers of such accidents fall by 20.3% compared to 2011 to 12.6 per million miles.
This means that during its first two years, Driving Out Harm has helped ALSA reduce its accidents by 32.6%.
Delivering improvements on the scale we are seeking requires changes in behaviour.
ALSA, for example, has introduced scheduled safety brie ngs for drivers in its Spanish and Moroccan operations, together with thorough driver competence assessments.
These involve managers travelling with each of the drivers for whom they are responsible, observing and assessing their driving behaviour according to such criteria as speed pro les, anticipation and emotional control.
Feedback sessions inform the drivers of their strengths and where they need to make improvements.
In addition, new maintenance and engineering staff assessments have led to improvements in compliance with safety instructions when working on vehicles.
Reviewing ALSAs initiatives, the safety consultancy company Arthur D. Little, recently praised the good progress that is being made.
