Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Governance Statutory information Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance Statement of Compliance with The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers Liability the UK Corporate Governance Code Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied against its Directors.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code of Association the Company has indemnified its Directors Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010 and Ofcers in accordance with the provisions of Section save in respect of the following provisions: 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
A copy of the Articles of B.
2.1 The Composition of the Nomination Committee Association is available for inspection at the Companys Jorge Cosmen, who is a member of the Nomination registered ofce.
Committee, is not considered to be independent.
However, Internal control statement as Deputy Chairman and the representative of one of the The Boards responsibilities Companys largest shareholders, the Board considers The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system Mr Cosmen should be a member of the Nomination of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee in order to be involved in the recruitment Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate process for Board appointments.
strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues and Joaqun Ayuso was appointed as a member of the has put in place an organisational structure with formally Nomination Committee on 26 February 2013.
Accordingly, dened lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and the majority of the Nomination Committee are now clear operating processes.
The systems that the Board independent non-executive directors in accordance has established are designed to safeguard both the with Provision B.
shareholders investment and the assets of the Group, and are described as follows.
The Governance section of this Annual Report has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Key elements of the control framework complied with its provisions during 2012.
A copy of the UK Financial reporting process Management and Corporate Governance Code is available at frc.
specialists within the Finance Department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records Re-election of Directors and processes to ensure that all information is relevant, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, reliable and in accordance with the applicable laws and and the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in all Directors of the Company will offer themselves for either a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial election or re-election at this years AGM.
Non-Executive statements is completed by management to ensure that the Directors are appointed for specic terms, subject to refinancial position and results of the Group are appropriately election.
Non-Executive Directors will only be put forward for reected.
All financial information published by the Group is re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
believes the Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Performance management The performance of each division and operating company against its plan is closely Remuneration and service contracts monitored by a formal monthly reporting process and by the of Directors attendance of the relevant Executive Directors at monthly The Directors Remuneration Report, including details of divisional executive meetings.
remuneration policy and service contracts, is set out on pages 64 to 75.
Annual tness check process Internal audit undertake an annual review at each operating company to assess Directors conicts of interest the integrity of the balance sheet and to check the effective The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a situation operation of key financial reporting and information systems where a Director has a conict of interest, as required by the controls.
The results of the reviews are presented to both Companies Act 2006.
As part of this process, the members divisional and Group finance with any required actions of the Board prepare a list of other positions held and all agreed with the relevant divisional Finance Director.
other conict situations that may need authorising either in relation to the Director concerned or his her connected Strategic and financial planning An annual persons.
The Board considers each Directors situation budgeting and strategic planning process has been and decides whether to approve any conict situations, established whereby each division and constituent taking into consideration what is in the best interests of operating company assesses its competitive position the Company and whether the Directors ability to act in and goals, taking account of the strategic risks faced.
accordance with his or her wider duties is affected.
Each This strategy is translated into a financial plan with clear Director is required to notify the Company Secretary of any milestones and performance indicators.
potential or actual conict situations that will need authorising Capital investment A clear process is in place for the by the Board.
Authorisations given by the Board are approval of capital expenditure, which includes detailed reviewed annually.
appraisal of the benets of the proposed investment and any associated key risks.
Material capital expenditure Accountability and audit requires Board approval.
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are set out on pages 81 and 82.
Health and safety Health and safety standards and benchmarks have been established in all our businesses and the performance of operating companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
com 79 Governance Statutory information continued Risk management reporting process Each division Anti-bribery policy and operating company evaluates its internal control A Group Anti-Bribery policy has been established and environment and key risks, and the results are reviewed issued to all Group companies and is also available on the at management level and passed to the Audit Committee Groups website at nationalexpressgroup.
The policy before being presented to the Board.
This process is prohibits any inducement which results in a personal gain or reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and advantage to the recipient or any person or body associated relevance of the key risks included in reports.
The review with them, and which is intended to influence them to take covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk management action which may not be solely in the interests of the Group controls.
These procedures are mandated and designed or of the person or body employing them or which they to manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations represent.
The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery achieve their business objectives.
is the responsibility of all employees throughout the Group.
Employees can report condentially any suspicion of bribery Internal audit The internal control system is via an externally facilitated whistleblower hotline.
independently monitored and supported by a Group internal audit function.
The internal audit function reports to management and the Audit Committee on the Groups financial and operational controls, and monitors and reviews the extent to which its recommendations have been implemented.
Michael Hampson Company Secretary Board-level reporting on internal control During the year the Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the 28 February 2013 internal audit function, the external auditors and executive management on matters relating to internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specic risks that are assessed as material to the Group are being managed.
Review of internal control effectiveness The system of internal control and risk management, described above, has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving the Groups business objectives, and can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this system has been regularly reviewed by the Directors in line with the Guidance on Audit Committees, published by the Financial Reporting Council in December 2010.
Where significant control failings or weaknesses have been identied, appropriate corrective action has been taken.
Whistleblowing policy Whistleblowing policies are in place in each of the Groups businesses and are also available on the Groups .
The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and ethical practices within all its operations and continues to review its policies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has endorsed a set of principles which establish the framework for how its businesses operate.
Key to these is working in an open and honest manner.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness and accountability.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy either by contacting their line manager or telephoning a dedicated external helpline.
Any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be taken and condential records are maintained.
The Company Secretary reports any matters of signicance to the appropriate committee.
In 2012 no issues of signicance were raised.
80 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
