Business review UK Coach Returning to growth after subsidy challenge Revenue in 2012 was 255.1 million 2011: 259.1m and normalised operating profit 20.6 million 2011: 34.9m.
Tom Stables Managing Director, UK Coach KPIs measuring our progress Revenue growth Margin Passenger journeys % % m 2 8.1 16.5 15 20 6 5 12 15 4 9 3 10 6 2 5 3 1 0 0 0 10 11 12 10 11 12 10 11 12 Why we measure Why we measure Why we measure Each National Express division is targeting Normalised operating margin reects Passenger journeys are reective of revenue growth as a core driver of value.
operational efficiencies and cost control.
underlying demand for coach travel.
National Express is targeting increased 2012 performance 2012 performance passenger ridership as a long term driver Total revenue decreased over the year as The drop in margin, from the withdrawal of sustainable value.
Underlying of the concessionary income, reects a revenue increased by over 2%.
lower but sustainable level of profitability 2012 performance which is not dependent on material As with revenue, concessionary journeys Government support.
decreased by over 30%, offset by growth in the core business.
Express network including concessionary journeys.
36 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Results Operational excellence 2012 was a difficult year for the UK Coach division, with the Operational excellence initiatives focused on improving withdrawal of the Governments 16 million senior citizen customer service, cost reduction and network efficiency.
One million fewer concession journeys In 2012 we increased our customer recommendation rate were made.
Although we took action to grow commercial to 96%.
Service improvements included using technology non-concession revenue, this was insufficient to deliver to improve driving behaviour and keep our customers a material mitigation of the loss of subsidy.
We now track 100% of our coaches, informing both travellers and customer-facing staff of changes to arrival UK Coach revenue decreased to 255.1 million in 2012, and departure times, as well as providing live telemetry to our a 2% decline from 259.1 million.
Within this, the Express control centre of vehicle operation data.
We also introduced coach business declined 7%, driven by a 40% decline in over 100 new coaches to the network: over half the fleet revenue from our over-60 customers.
Apart from these is less than two years old.
Our investment in employees, concession passengers, commercial revenue in the through the Driving Out Harm safety programme, saw Express business grew by 2%, with increased volumes a 63% improvement in employee injury rates.
across each of our market segments, alongside good growth in The Kings Ferry and Eurolines operations.
In response to the significant loss of concession revenue after the Government subsidy withdrawal, we identied Operating profit fell 14.3 million to 20.6 million 2011: opportunities to reduce structural costs.
In December we 34.9m and operating margin was 8.1%, reecting the loss announced the closure of our Crawley own-operated depot, of the concession subsidy.
An increase in fuel costs and saving 0.5 million per annum.
We also made overhead additional mileage operated for new routes were offset by cost savings through headcount reduction during the year.
commercial passenger growth and good Olympic contract Increasing use of the website to drive sales up to 55% volume at The Kings Ferry.
from 50% in 2011 has reduced distribution costs.
Mileage Customer satisfaction Lost time injuries per 1,000 FTE m % 85.0 84 13.2 100 100 50 80 80 40 60 60 30 40 40 20 20 20 10 0 0 0 10 11 12 10 11 12 10 11 12 Why we measure Why we measure Why we measure Safety is a key National Express value, Mileage is both a key cost management tool As a mainly discretionary form of transport, with a Group-wide objective of reducing and also an indicator of organic growth.
UK Coach is focused on delivering the injuries to employees and making our highest levels of customer service.
This will support Mileage increased during the year as we 2012 performance sustainable revenue growth and save invested in new routes and services to We have worked particularly hard to improve costs maintenance, insurance, claims.
the quality of the service over the last two years, reected in a high overall result that 2012 performance has been sustained.
The first full year of Driving Out Harm has had a significant impact on safety in the business, with a decrease of 63%.
com 37 Business review UK Coach continued Market overview Competition Market size Selective competition from large bus operators and localised services.
300m Labour of contested revenues in the scheduled coach market Outsourced model: 80% operated by third-party partners on almost all privatised.
National Express Third-party partners Other operators Owned operations Consistent service and behaviour standards across all operators.
Market share Around 1,000 destinations served.
Growth National Express is the UK scheduled coach market leader.
Revenue growth through improved retailing systems and greater understanding of our customers and their needs.
Market composition National Express has the only nationwide network of services.
UK Coach revenue split Other competitors tend to focus on specic regions or corridors.
Market trends Core revenue growth, reecting value and convenience of coach.
Price competition from rail through discounted fares.
Market features Highly deregulated market.
Passenger Customer safety and disability access supported by regulation.
Contract Operators able to compete exibly on selected routes.
Subsidy Other Customers Customer satisfaction important in driving longer term loyalty.
Attracted by fare discount to rail, increasing cost of private motoring and environmental friendliness.
With a change in passenger travelling patterns also driven In 2012 we increased our customer by the concession subsidy withdrawal, we restructured our Express coach network to improve efficiency and match customer demand.
Firstly, we reduced some services recommendation rate to 96%.
that were made unprofitable by the concession removal.
Secondly, we consolidated and remapped overlapping routes, such as the Trans Pennine services, eliminating one million miles of annual schedule without impacting revenue.
Thirdly, we removed some low usage intermediate destinations, such as in Sussex or East Anglia, to reduce journey times and drive greater patronage.
38 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Growth Living our values We grew our core commercial Express revenue by 2% in 2012.
With austerity impacting our customers and strong competition from advance ticket prices on rail, we reduced fare yield by 4%, successfully driving a 5% increase in volume.
Increasing seat utilisation is our key target.
We saw growth in all non-concession market segments and a steady improvement through the second half of the year, with underlying passenger volume growth of 8% in December.
We also introduced new routes, including additional airport schedules, benefitting from underlying passenger trafc recovery at Heathrow and Stansted.
Also popular was the introduction of faster direct routes with greater frequencies, such as from the South Coast to London, meeting demand from withdrawal of a competitor.
By the end of the year we had sold over 210,000 coach concession cards to replace the discounts available to seniors, with good renewal rates and a higher average number of journeys by each holder.
We are also developing partnership arrangements to expand distribution channels for ticket sales.
In December, we partnered with Age UK to offer discounted products to their members.
Outside the core coach operations, both The Kings Ferry and Eurolines performed well.
The Kings Ferry secured key contracts for the Olympics and Paralympics.
Eurolines added further capacity to Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam during the year, leading to an 11% increase in revenue, despite a lull over the traditionally busy summer period due to the Olympics.
Cash generation Cash generation was solid, with 106% of operating profit converted into cash ow compared with 69% in 2011.
The outsourced business model ensures that return on capital employed remains high, even with a lower operating margin.
Future prospects As the only national coach network in the UK and a capitallight operating model, our UK Coach business is a unique asset in our portfolio.
Offering great value for money to Customer customers in challenging difficult economic times, it is well Customers have a choice.
They dont have to travel with us.
But the better the placed to improve its performance in the medium term.
service we provide, the more likely they are to choose National Express.
And we In 2013 we are investing in improving our retailing systems want to make sure they enjoy it so much that they keep coming back.
Increasing and customer database to understand their needs better, customer satisfaction will increase our revenue.
enabling us to offer tailored products which will support the By the end of 2014, National Express aims to be the customer service leader growth of passenger volumes across our customer base.
of the entire transport sector.
We are also investing in improved revenue management, with up-to-the-minute pricing to reect booking levels Our Coach business took a step towards achieving this ambitious goal with the and encourage travel, supported by better demand launch, during national Customer Service Week, of the first Coach Customer management, historic analysis and predictive scheduling Charter.
This told passengers what they could expect from us as a company of our services.
We will also extend our cost efficiency drive, the priority we give to their safety, the services we provide and the reliability focusing on depot costs and helping to improve our partner they are entitled to.
cost base, including reducing dead mileage.
In the absence But we have also been training our staff about how to use the charter, and how of further austerity measures, we believe we can grow both to put things right there and then when they go wrong.
revenue and margin in this unique business.
Staff are encouraged to put themselves in their customers shoes, and, if they Strategic focus believe a customer has been badly treated, they are empowered to intervene and 2013 is about targeting growth in the core network and resolve the problem.
We have even introduced a new process that allows Coach making changes to the structure of the business.
Our key station staff to offer unhappy customers free journeys if thats what it takes.
priority is to develop and implement a revenue management system, followed by getting to know our customers better We ask customers what they think of our service, and in 2012 satisfaction and building a single customer view.
increased in all but one of the 14 areas we measure, compared to 2011.
In addition, the number of complaints fell by 26%.
