Overview Where we are today An integrated approach Below is a snapshot showing the foundations of our Group and our progress during the year.
How we create value Our business Our strategy A leading transport provider delivering services in the UK, North America, 2012 has been another year of good progress Spain and Morocco.
in delivering on each part of this strategy.
Driving organic growth National Express Group PLC Read more 12 17 Bus Coach Rail Generating superior cash and returns Spain: UK: UK: t ALSA t National Express t c2c Read more 13 18 t Eurolines North America: t The Kings Ferry t Durham School Services Delivering operational excellence t Stock Transportation Spain: t Petermann t ALSA Read more 11 16 UK: t National Express Bus Delivering new opportunities Read more 4 7 Read more 13 19 How we manage our business Our Board of Directors Balance is considered a key requirement for the composition of the Board, not only in terms of the Executives and Non-Executives, but also with regard to the mix of skills, experience, knowledge, independence and diversity.
2012 saw the appointment of Jackie Hunt to the National Express Group PLC Board.
She was joined by Sir John Armitt at the start of the year, who has since become our Chairman.
Additionally, both Miranda Curtis and John Devaney stepped down from the Board.
Sir John Armitt Dean Finch Jez Maiden Chairman Group Chief Group Finance Read more 52 Executive Director Full biographies at: nationalexpressgroup.
aspx The journey so far 2010 2011 Two year extension granted to c2c franchise 350m 7-year Sterling bond 225m 10-year Sterling issue oversubscribed bond issued Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Dean Finch joins as new Start of Agadir bus service Three new directors appointed Group Chief Executive contract in Morocco to the Board 2 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Risks UK Bus Our markets Our risk management process: Largest five operators represent 70% of the t provides a framework to identify, assess and Spain UK market.
manage risks to the Groups overall strategy ALSA has a leading position in a regulated Read more 32 and the contribution of its individual divisions: and highly segmented market.
Concessions exclusive to each operator.
UK Coach t gives business unit management tools to The UK scheduled coach market leader identify and manage risks: Read more 24 operating in a highly deregulated market.
t allows Group management to identify and Selective competition from other coach North America manage the risks that are likely to have a operators and rail.
One third of school bus market outsourced.
more signi cant impact on the financial Public funding pressures are driving results and strategy and share common Read more 36 conversion to outsourcing.
New opportunities issues and solutions: and UK Rail in transit and para-transit.
t allows the Board to ful l its governance Regluated environment and evolving responsibilities.
Read more 43 Read more 40 Governance Living our values National Express is committed to operating its businesses in a responsible manner.
We share a common set of values across Our corporate governance framework forms an integral part of this approach in order the business which help us deliver our to safeguard shareholder value.
They are embedded in our day-to-day operations and shape how Our company-wide policies and procedures, including risk management, are considered we conduct our business.
as part of the overall governance of the business.
This report focuses on the Groups approach to corporate governance as provided in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2011 which is applicable to the company for the financial year being reported.
The Group also has regard to developing corporate governance best practice including matters contained in various investor guidelines.
Safety Customer People Community Read more Read more 50 46 New coachcards launched after 2012 the UK Government removes its concessionary travel scheme.
Prequali cation for Essex Petermann deal completed Dividend reinstated, Guadalajara contract Thameside and Great opens up transit parawith new payout policy won in Spain Western rail tenders transit markets Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Announcement of Fleet investment End of East Anglia rail National Express Sir John Armitt named as Petermann acquisition of 132m in Bus, franchise Foundation launched new Chairman opens up transit Coach and Spain para-transit www.
