National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 7 Delivering our strategy The following diagram demonstrates the alignment between the elements of our strategy, the strategic objectives that will enable us to deliver it, the risks we face and what we have delivered this year.
Use this as a road map to the content on pages 8 to 20.
Our strategy Operational Innovation & Engaging externally Disciplined excellence efficiency investment People How do we Measuring Our people are the foundation of everything we do.
We are committed to developing our employees to the best of deliver?
performance their abilities and attracting new talent from diverse backgrounds to meet the requirements of our business.
our KPIs See page 8 See page 13 In this section we discuss the This section objectives that highlights our Safety & reliability Environmental Stakeholder engagement will enable us to key performance Providing a safe and responsibility Stakeholders views form an deliver our indicators with reliable network is our As a responsible business, integral part of the way we strategy.
It is what we are committed to do business and make our customers expect.
for current and future Analysis of the generations.
performance can be found in the Financial outperformance relevant sections We aim to maximise our returns within the constraints of our regulatory agreements, while continuing to invest for future growth.
Harmful activities Infrastructure and IT Law and regulation Risks to Aspects of our business are systems Changes in law and delivery potentially dangerous or Our network or system regulation may affect our could damage the security may fail.
In this section Business performance we discuss the Future business performance may not meet expectations.
principal risks that may prevent Cost escalation Financing and liquidity us from Costs or cash outflows may increase faster than revenue.
Our future growth requires delivering our access to capital markets at commercially acceptable strategy and interest rates.
how we respond to those risks.
Customer and counterparty risk Employees and others Customers and counterparties may not perform their obligations.
We need to attract and retain a diverse mix of talented people and ensure they are engaged to act in our best interests.
Continued the implementation of the Gas Distribution Submitted business plans Accelerated employee Priorities for What we front office system.
under new RIIO price programmes to build a 2011 12 delivered See Streamlining processes page 19 control framework.
skilled and engaged this year See Talking networks page workforce.
These were 20 See Investing in our people some of the See page 19 page 20 areas of focus In this section during the year.
we use case Our case studies studies to Progressed our provide more provide a transformation in information.
detailed insight information systems IS into some of the and support.
focus areas and See A step change in IS page 19 our achievements during the year.
