New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategy JORC reserves as at 1 Jan 2013 374 Mt 1.
Sustainable excellence development Development of our current Operational costs containment.
Continuously improving Maintaining the social license Actively pursuing attractive operational excellence and to operate: solidifying our relationorganic growth opportunities.
efficiency through capitalships with our stakeholders.
investment and improvements Attracting and retaining the Reposition the business in productivity.
best people in the region.
as Europes leading miner and Supplier of choice for customers Maintaining a strong financial marketer of coking coal by 2017. in our target markets.
position with a balanced capital structure.
Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 15 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Chairmans Statement 2012 Markets The automotive sector, There can be no denying that 2012 has which is the industrys been a very challenging year with any principal end-customer, prospect of recovery in the wider European market becoming seemingly choked by the has continued to be strong continuation of structural macroeconomic with the Czech Republic imbalances in developed markets.
and Slovakia now the Coupled with a slowdown in growth in core emerging markets such as China and India, worlds two top car this has led to a drastic fall in business producers per capita.
confidence, and hence business activity, which ultimately has weakened demand for steel and its associated raw materials including coking coal.
The steel-making industry in Central Our coking business profited from lower Europe has however, remained relatively coking coal purchase costs, and although resilient during this period of economic the price for coke has markedly decreased weakness, particularly when compared year-on-year, the overall EBITDA with other parts of Europe.
The automotive contribution of the segment doubled on the sector, which is the industrys principal previous years performance to EUR 12 million.
end-customer, has continued to be strong with the Czech Republic and Slovakia In January 2013, we took advantage now the worlds two top car producers per of favourable market conditions to capita.
Such manufacturers, along with successfully refinance our Senior Notes other heavy industries, are attracted by the due in 2015 with a new bond issuance, regions strong fundamentals including the Senior Notes due in 2021, thus pushing out availability of competitive and skilled labour, our overall debt maturity profile.
supported by an efficient supply chain.
Strategy FY 2012 Results Our underlying strategy is focused on three In my first report to A key achievement for 2012 was reaching fundamental pillars: Operational excellence, shareholders since joining our coal production target whilst gaining Growth and Sustainable development.
current mining operations in terms continue to be, important parts of NWRs Further details of NWRs repositioning as Executive Chairman on a further improvement in our safety In other words, seeking to supply premium revenue stream going forward.
strategy can be found on the Companys of further improvements in safety and 1 1 October 2012, I would performance metric, LTIFR.
products as cost effectively and in as operational efficiency.
website or contact the Investor Relations socially responsible manner as possible, Taking part in the regional consolidation department.
like to express how whilst continually looking for ways to grow story continues to be the long-term goal In the coking coal business, continued Despite the current largely negative privileged I feel to have pricing pressure during the year led to the business through either acquisition or backdrop, the fundamentals of the region of the business but we are limited by our Safety at NWR the opportunity to lead a 30 per cent decline in the price of coking organic means.
remain intact, and core to this is the simple current position in the market.
However, Health and safety is an area in which through improving our footprint, and there can be no compromise and is taken coal year-on-year.
However, our sustained fact that Europe is short of coking coal.
I truly efforts on cost control delivered our guided Following a strategic review of NWR in 2012 there was an estimated supply gap of becoming a real market leader in our extremely seriously at NWR.
We remain believe that the Company mining unit costs for 2012, which remained 2012, we announced in February 2013, coking coal in Central Europe of 4 million region, we will be in a better position to committed to continuous improvement of is a compelling investment clear objectives to grow the business.
A safety first broadly flat on the previous year, and partially tonnes reaching around 50 million tonnes mitigated the difficult pricing conditions.
Over the next five years we want to build in wider Europe, and this trend is increasing attitude needs to be adopted amongst story, possessing many on the strengths of NWR and evolve the despite the economic downturns.
Coupled all our staff for the full benefits of the unique qualities and business from what it is today, investment we have made in technology Our thermal coal business has suffered with the influx of heavy industries entering As a competitive supplier strengths that most from what we believe is a temporary regional a regional coal producer and trusted our core market of Central Europe over the and safety equipment to be realised.
for the regional steel oversupply, given the relatively mild winter regional supplier with strong customer past decades and declining coking coal NWR places emphasis on engendering of our competitors cannot industry, we look forward a safety culture in the organisation weather conditions as well as the wider relationships to Europes leading miner production, it is a logical step forward in match.
It is my intention economic slowdown in our local thermal coal and marketer of coking coal.
NWRs growth plans to engage in the import to capitalising on the through continuous training for staff and that NWR explores and markets.
Consequently, we built up over one markets, and to become a one-stop-shop the promotion of employee engagement opportunities an improved million tonnes of thermal coal inventories We see three core areas to explore to reach for European steel customers.
Pivotal to and discipline, along with stronger links realises these to the full.
market environment will by the end of 2012. this goal: first, to double the amount of our successful evolution is to concentrate between safety performance and financial coking coal we sell into Europe to 10 million efforts to further improve our current no doubt offer in due motivation throughout the Group.
tonnes per year: second, to offer all coking mining operations.
course, and which NWR 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate represents coal qualities to our existing and expanded The industry-wide safety indicator, Lost the number of reportable injuries in NWRs is well placed to exploit steel customer base, and evolve into Whilst our growth strategy is primarily Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR, for operations causing at least three days Gareth Penny to the full.
a one-stop shop for European steel geared towards increasing coking coal the year was 7.45 lost-time injuries per of absence per million hours worked including Executive Chairman of the Board contractors.
customers: and thirdly, to improve our sales, thermal coal and coke are, and will million hours worked, which I am pleased Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 17 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Chairmans Statement to say is an improvement of 2.5 per cent limited amount of new supply coming Sustainability lies at the on last years 7.64 figure, and reinforces on stream due to the universal reining in heart of our operations, our position as a regional leader in deep of capital spending within the sector.
with respect to both the underground coal mining safety.
As a competitive supplier for the management of our current By 2017 we aim to be ranked as one of the top regional steel industry, we look forward reserve base and in terms five leaders in safety in deep underground to capitalising on the opportunities an of maintaining our social coal mining globally, as measured by LTIFR.
improved market environment will no On route to achieving this target we want to doubt offer in due course, and which license to operate.
decrease our present LTIFR further to below NWR is well placed to exploit to the full.
5 by 2015, a target that I am confident that we will be able to reach.
Thermal coal remains a key component of the energy mix in the region.
However, It is an inescapable fact however that in the near-term, we continue to envisage NWR mines operate in some of the worlds tough market conditions for our thermal most challenging and difficult geological coal business.
This will evidently result Coking coal reserves at our other Polish conditions, and its mining operations in only a gradual sell down of our thermal project, Morcinek have been included are among the deepest in the industry.
coal inventory build-up during 2012, in Polands official list of reserves.
This Whilst this is testimony to the Companys principally in the second half of the year.
is an important step forward for NWR in industry-leading technical expertise gaining a mining license for the deposit.
and the skills of our employees, it is Coke The project envisages the use of one inevitable there are risks.
Despite our As NWR is Europes largest foundry coke of OKDs existing mine infrastructures.
best efforts, I deeply regret to report that producer, it was never expected that we Currently, the dewatering of the deposit five fatalities occurred during the year would come through 2012 unscathed.
is underway, which is expected to take and our sincere condolences go out to the Production was down 12 per cent at 680 kilo several years.
families and friends of these colleagues tonnes, with realised prices 21 per cent of ours.
Any loss of life is unacceptable lower at EUR 289 per tonne at year-end.
At Frentt, the project remains in and lessons from these tragic accidents exploratory phase, a process that was are taken on board so they are not Foundry coke, which tends to have a started in 2011 and will take four years repeated: we always strive to achieve higher margin due to a less competitive to complete.
As the largest coal resource zero fatalities at our operations.
market, made up around 70 per cent of in Europe with an estimated 1.6 billion sales in 2012, and the remaining sales mix tonnes of hard coal, Frentt remains an Coal was composed of blast furnace coke and exciting project for us to explore.
Notable highlights for 2012 included the see encouraging signs that declines in well placed to further improve and expand Macroeconomic concerns have clearly other types.
The capability to switch more industrial activity and levels of business our successful mining operations, and Board conducting an external evaluation taken their toll on coking coal prices during easily between the various types of coke Additionally, development of the Karvin of its effectiveness.
One of the principal confidence have started to level out.
truly become the preferred supplier of 2012, with negotiations in the last quarter to suit changes in market demand reflects mine to unlock a further 30 million tonnes recommendations coming out of this Longer-term, we remain confident in coking coal for our customers through of the year reaching USD 165 for a tonne of the investment made in rationalising our of coking coal by 2017 continues to the resilience of our business and, in the Companys repositioning strategy to review was that both the Nomination and premium hard coking coal, the benchmark coking operations into one single coking progress to schedule.
Remuneration Committees should be particular, in the attractiveness of the become Europes leading mine and marketer for the first quarter of 2013.
However, it is plant, which became fully operational at chaired by an Independent Director: this market for coking coal, which remains of coking coal.
our belief that prices at these levels the start of 2011.
Sustainability systemically in short supply.
Importantly, we are unsustainable particularly because Sustainability lies at the heart of our changed the details of the Deferred Bonus Dividend spot prices are below the cash costs per Development projects operations, with respect to both the Plan, building in more long-term incentives Our key priority for 2013 and in the medium As the Company reported a net loss in marginal tonne of production and there is a In 2012 we concluded the technical review management of our current reserve base the second half of 2012 the Board of NWR with stricter targets for senior management term will be to optimise our existing assets of our premium quality coking coal deposit, and in terms of maintaining our social taking effect from January 2013. and increase cost efficiency across our did not declare the final dividend.
In line Dbiesko in Southern Poland, and I am license to operate, which is dependent operations without compromising safety, with NWRs stated policy of distributing pleased to report that we remain committed upon broad community support of our 50 per cent of the Mining Divisions Longer-term, we remain Jn Fabin continues to offer his valuable production flexibility, or future development to the project.
Achieving such community experience to the Board in his new role at our mines.
We have taken many decisive consolidated annual net income over the confident in the resiliencequality hard coking coal asset in Europe.
support involves minimising our impact as Executive Director of NWR and CEO of steps to preserve cash in 2013 including course of the business cycle, NWR paid an of our business and, upon the physical environment, looking interim dividend of EUR 0.06 per share in OKD, succeeding Klaus-Dieter Beck from significant savings in both capital and in particular, in the The previously outlined risks associated after the welfare of our employees and January 2013. operating expenses.
Further details are set September 2012 out of the profit achieved with the water management and potential cultivating productive relationships with out on pages 36 and 39 in this section on in the first half of 2012. attractiveness of the excessive liabilities are now resolved.
Finally, the Board completed its liquidity and capital resources.
market for coking However, in light of the current market redomiciliation process to the United coal, which remains in conditions, we will limit our progress on Corporate Governance Kingdom, a move that we continue to believe As one of the world leaders in deep-level Gareth Penny site in 2013 to the purchase of surface NWR is committed to upholding the Executive Chairman of the Board has long-term benefits for our shareholders.
underground coal mining, we have the structurally short supply.
properties and project value engineering.
highest standards of corporate governance technical skills, a relatively unleveraged We are budgeting a total capital and anti-bribery policies throughout Outlook balance sheet and a strong set of markets expenditure of EUR 10 million on the the Company, adhering principally to the Although we expect market weakness to draw upon.
These qualities set us project in 2013.
to continue in 2013, we are beginning to apart from many of our peers.
