Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30 31 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Risk management Market risks continued Customer concentration risks Market risks continued Liquidity and financing costs risks Description Description A large proportion of NWRs output is sold to a small number of customers.
Continuing pressure on the global economic environment may impact on NWRs financial health.
This can result in significant decrease in liquidity, possibly affecting The loss of one or more of these significant customers, or their inability to pay, would NWRs ability to fund its operations.
have a disproportionate effect on the Companys financial results.
Mitigation Mitigation NWR aims to maintain a prudent gearing policy, strong cash balance and sound funding NWR has longstanding relationships with its customers underpinned by long-term profile, sufficient to meet its current and foreseeable operating and capital expenditure framework contracts.
Going forward we aim to build on these and diversify the needs.
The Company is planning significantly reduced capital expenditure in 2013, in customer base further in line with the Companys strategy.
NWR can adjust its output, in terms of both volume and quality, according to changes The Company has good relationships with its lending banks.
In anticipation of not being in customer demands.
able to meet the requirements of one of the covenants in the ECA and RCF at the end These customers have in many cases configured their production facilities to suit of the first quarter of 2013, the Group is currently negotiating revised terms for both NWRs product characteristics.
the ECA and RCF, including suspension of covenant testing until later in 2013.
NWR carries out regular due diligence reviews on its customers.
The Companys base case forecasts indicate that it will have sufficient cash available to satisfy its credit needs through at least 31 March 2014 whether or not these facilities remain available.
However, in the event that the current low prices for the Companys products persist and the Company is unable to negotiate a further extension of its Currency fluctuation risks short term borrowing facilities or negotiate replacement facilities on acceptable terms, Description the Company would, absent mitigating actions, need further funding before that time.
NWR reports in Euros, invoices in a mixture of Czech Koruna and Euros whilst the The Company has a number of mitigating actions available, including accelerating majority of its costs and cash outflows are in Czech Koruna and to a lesser extent, the sale of its inventories, reducing operating costs, factoring receivables and further the Polish Zloty.
reducing deferring of capital expenditure, which it believes would provide sufficient liquidity until at least 31 March 2014.
This leads to currency mismatches: should the Euro weaken or strengthen significantly NWR is in regular dialogue with the investor community in order to adapt to changing against these two currencies, this can affect the financial results.
market conditions, and the Company takes full advantage of the flexibility in its capital structure.
Mitigation NWR actively manages its exposure to currency fluctuations by applying various instruments such as currency forward contracts, including cap and collar arrangements.
The time horizon of these instruments is matched as closely as possible to the forecasts and contracted exposure.
NWR has a policy of hedging 70 per cent of the Czech Koruna shortfall each year.
Licensing risks Legal and regulation risks Interest rate risks Description Description NWRs activities are subject to licenses and permits it is therefore vital for the On the debt side NWR uses a mixture of floating and fixed rate debt, with differing Companys future to retain them.
This leaves NWR potentially exposed to movements in interest rates.
Mitigation Mitigation NWR monitors political, regulatory and social developments closely and maintains NWR actively manages its exposure to interest rate and duration risk, among other regular dialogue with local, regional and national authorities to ensure compliance things by entering into interest rate swaps with maturity profiles matching with all relevant current and future laws and regulations in the industry.
the underlying debt as closely as possible.
Through regular dialogue with all its stakeholders, NWR also maintains its social license to operate.
Detailed measures for the mitigation of licensing risks are discussed further in the Sustainability Report 2012.
