Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8 9 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information How NWR creates value Strong market Located within European Union Proximity to Responsible Operational position the industrial structurally short blue-chip corporate citizen excellence heartland of of coking coal customers Central Europe NWR, with four deep working mines and NWRs assets are strategically located in Central Europe, and the wider European Through longstanding relationships with our Ensuring that the business is both NWR is one of the most efficient miners several development projects in the Czech the industrial heartland of Central Europe, Union, is structurally short of coking coal, customers, NWR has gained insights into their economically and environmentally in the Silesian region with world-class Republic and Poland, is one of Central a region underpinned by strong secular and is required to import a proportion of specific requirements, enabling the Company sustainable enables the Company to maintain mining equipment and unrivalled levels Europes leading producers of hard coal drivers whose industries, in particular the its requirements.
This is a trend that is to anticipate future changes in demand for its social license to operate.
As one of the of technical expertise.
Operating mining and foundry coke, in terms of both quality automotive sector, has remained resilient widening despite economic pressures.
This encompasses both largest employers in the Czech Republic, technology for longwall production and and quantities sold.
compared with counterparts in Western As a regional player with proven strengths the quantity and mix of grade of coal and coke NWR is fully committed to open and regular gateroad development, we mine at levels Europe during the recent downturns.
and strong customer relationships, NWR required, including the increased take-up of dialogue with all relevant stakeholders on deeper than the majority of the worlds Manufacturers along with the heavy is uniquely positioned to take advantage pulverised coal injection coking coal.
Coal a whole range of social and environmental miners, at around 1,000 metres below industries are attracted by the regions of this industry dynamic by engaging in and coke is predominantly transported via the issues.
Our core areas of focus alongside the surface.
Longwall productivity strong fundamentals including a business the import markets.
With this in mind, railway network directly to our customers.
safety are: land rehabilitation, enhance continues to increase and in 2012, the friendly environment, competitive and NWR announced in 2013 a strategy to employee training, reduction of emissions average production per longwall per day skilled labour force as well as access to reposition the business as Europes leading from our coking operation, and to continue was 1,800 t LW, a record-high.
an existing infrastructure for the entire miner and marketer of coking coal by 2017. to make a significant positive economic carbon-steel supply chain.
1 Austria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia.
EUR million per cent Our economic contribution 2012 Coking coal market share in Central Europe Corporate social investment CSI comprises of funds provided for projects in the following areas: community Polish producers 57% Other imports 3% Source: 2011 production for polish development: support for enterprise and job creation: health: culture: education donations to schools, scholarships : NWR 25% Opel producers and NWR: 2011 imports environment nances provided over and above the legal requirement : and sport sponsorship.
US imports 15% estimates from IEA Volkswagen 57 746 Payments to suppliers Wroclaw Dresden Volkswagen Opel 279 Employee wages and benets 231 CAPEX Krakw 25 138 Payments to government Bosch Man Prague 97 Payments to providers of capital Ostrava 15 Bosch 8 Corporate social investment 3 U. S. Steel Nrnberg Koice per cent NWR revenue exposure to end sectors per cent Foundry coke market share EZ Group Source: NWR estimates in Europe KIA Audi BMW Source: High-end steel products 42% Mechanical engineering 21% NWR 36% Italy 22% NWR estimates of installed PSA Peugeot Citron Electrictity and heat generation 26% Automotive & railways 79% Poland 28% Spain 13% foundry coke capacities Bratislava Construction 26% Pac 7% Verbund Linz 36 42 21 79 Volkswagen Vienna Mnich voestalpline Gyr 28 Budapest Opel 26 Salzburg Audi 26 22 All displayed logos are protected by copyright and are used by NWR with specific consent of the owners.
NWR does not necessarily have a contractual 13 relationship with the mentioned companies.
Some of the companies are end users of coal related products.
The locations of the logos and company names 7 displayed on the map above do not represent the exact location of the companies involved.
