Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 11 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Industry flow chart Hard coal is divided into three main categories based on its chemical characteristics: coking coal, which is used to produce coke Data sources on products: needed in blast furnaces and foundries: PCI coking coal, that can partially replace coke in processing iron ore into crude iron in a blast Sustainable materials brochure, UIT Cambridge Ltd. EUROFER The European Steel Association.
furnace: and thermal coal, which is mainly used for power and heat generation.
Data are of informative value only and are based on average numbers.
Coking coal Coking coal Cok Coke e Pr Products oducts Coking coal, also known as metallurgical coal Foundry coke Mineral wool 1 tonne of rock wool Cast ir Cast iron on Components Components is used to produce varying grades of coke, insulation requires 186 kg Foundry coke is similar in its properties to principally blast furnace and foundry coke.
of hard coal for its Casting is used to produce complex shapes The properties of steel make it an invaluable blast furnace coke, and differs primarily in Coke is produced by heating the coking coal production.
Steel Steel such as engineering machinery.
Raw iron, steel, commodity with a vast array of uses from its greater rigidity and larger size.
Foundry in coking batteries at temperatures of up nickel and a range of other metals are heated producing screws, nuts and bolts to larger coke is not only used for cast iron production, to 1,150C to extract volatile components Pig iron is made by a process of smelting to around 1,800C in a cupola furnace using products such as cars, airplanes, wind turbines, but is also a highly sought-after fuel in including gases, leaving a highly efficient iron ore with a mixture of the coke with some foundry coke until they melt.
The liquid metal buildings, and bridges.
Steel is 100 per cent the production of basalt-based insulation high-carbon fuel.
Coke is one of key ingredients limestone in the blast furnace.
The mixture is is then poured into a mould casting, and recyclable.
Demand is principally driven by the materials.
in the steel making process.
fed into the top of the blast furnace and air cooled to form the final shape.
urbanisation aspirations of global economies, oxygen is blasted through the bottom of the fundamentally underpinned by emerging Blast furnace coke Among others there are three main unit.
The coke burns in the blast furnace at market super powers of the likes of China characteristics that determine the quality of temperatures in excess of 1,400C, reacting Blast furnace coke is used mainly as a reducing and India.
the coking coal: the swelling index, dilation with the oxygen to create carbon monoxide, agent and a heat source in blast furnaces.
which in turn reduces the iron ore to pig iron.
The strong chemical properties of blast furnace Pr Products oducts When iron is smelted from its ore by coke allow it to withstand melting at extreme commercial processes, it contains more Automotive 16% Car temperatures, and it also acts as a carrier and carbon than is desirable.
To become steel, it 800 kg steel car filling material in which gas circulates through must be melted in steel furnaces e. g. basic the blast furnace charge column.
oxygen furnace and reprocessed to reduce carbor and other impurities such as sulphur and phosphorus to the correct amount, at Mechanical Metal forming machine which point other elements manganese, engineering 14% 12 tonnes per machine nickel, chromium and vanadium are added to average weight in trade produce the exact steel required.
This liquid of CZ is then continuously cast into long slabs or PCI Coking coal PCI Coking coal Roling and Roling and fo forming rming into ingots.
Steelmaking processes are broken into two categories: primary and secondary Modern blast furnaces allow for around steelmaking.
Primary steelmaking uses mostly Structural Wind mill 30 per cent of the coke input to be replaced by Fact: About 1,400 kg of iron ore, 770 kg of coal, new iron as the feedstock, usually from a blast steelworks 12% 250 tonnes of coal per less costly, PCI coking coal.
This finely pulverised The process of producing flat and long 150 kg of limestone, and 120 kg of recycled furnace.
Secondary steelmaking uses scrap wind mill on shore.
coal is injected along with the air oxygen at the products depends on the end sector: flat steel steel are used to produce 1 tonne of steel using steel as the primary raw material.
Off shore 350 tonnes bottom of the furnace.
products are typically used in car manufacture the blast furnace route.
and in packaging: and long steel products are used in construction of buildings and bridges Fact: The blast furnace reuses up to 30 per cent and to produce railroad tracks and wires.
of steel scrap and the electric arc furnace can Domestic Washing machine recycle around 90100 per cent of used steel.
appliances 4% Average weight in total 36 kg 53 per centof total weight is iron 19 kg of iron in every washing machine P Power & Hea ower & Heat t Thermal coal Thermal coal Households & Commer Households & Commercial cial Thermal coal, also commonly referred to as In electricity generation, thermal coal is Public sector, Industry Construction steam coal is mainly used for power and heat burnt to produce heat, which in turn converts 28% Single-sided safety barrier generation.
The steam powers a turbine Around 40 per cent of electric power worldwide 16,95 kg of steel per m coupled to an alternator, which generates is generated using coal.
type JS3A N2, electricity for the power grid.
The steam cools ArcelorMittal down as it turns the turbine generator and is condensed back to pure water, and the process is repeated.
In modern coal plants, the steam is Others 26% kept at extreme temperatures and pressures at Tubes, Metalware, all times to increase the efficiency of the power Shipyards, Miscellaneous plant.
Around 40 per cent of electric power worldwide is generated using coal.
Pr Products oducts To generate heat, steam can either be Cement 1 tonne of cement requires distributed directly to homes and offices etc approximately 200 kg of from the heating plant: or in modern plants, coal for its production.
CHP Combined Heat and Power technology is used, which is considered more efficient.
Thermal coal is also used in the process of making cement calcination.
