Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6 7 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information How we produce coal How we produce coke The construction of a mine starts with and thus ensuring safety.
One shaft brings top-down and from the outer edges to the At the coking plant, selected grades to 1,150C without the access of oxygen sinking two shafts and connecting them fresh air into the underground system, centre of the shaft using longwall panels.
of coking coal are grounded into a fine to separate all impurities and to produce underground.
One shaft is used and the other, equipped with a mine fan, Once mined, the coal is hauled up to the powder, mixed and compressed into coke.
After 3234 hours the hot coke is to transport personnel and material and recovers the air back to the surface.
At the coal large coal blocks.
pushed out of the coking chamber into the other for the mined raw material.
Underground, the deposit is divided into preparation plant the coal is washed, a watering car to be cooled.
At the sorting The shafts are also vital for ventilation horizontal layers or mine floors, and sorted and processed to meet customer The coal blocks are horizontally inserted houses, different grades of coke are sorted purposes, controlling the mine gas flow and the coal seam is accessed by a system requirements.
into the coking chamber by a charging before being loaded onto rail cars and microclimatic conditions underground, of tunnels or gateroads.
Coal is mined plate, and heated to temperatures of up transported to customers.
1 2 3 1 2 3 A coal seam needs to be accessed and demarcated Longwall equipment sets are used to mine coal: Once processed in a coal preparation plant, Coal storage bins are interconnected with a system Coke being pushed from the coking chamber.
Hot coke is cooled down in the quenching tower.
by a set of interconnected underground gateroads.
kit includes mechanised hydraulic shields, the coal is loaded into rail cars and shipped of conveyor belts.
These access routes are excavated by roadheaders.
a shearer and an armoured face conveyor.
