Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28 29 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Risk management Risks are controlled and managed within the relevant operational areas they occur Market risks Pricing risks including input cost inflation in.
It is the responsibility of every NWR subsidiary to actively manage its own risks.
Description Regional management is responsible for identifying, assessing and mitigating risks As NWR is highly operationally leveraged, the Company is heavily dependent on global with the support of risk managers.
commodity prices for coal and coke as they impact on the prices received.
Each subsidiary reports to NWRs Audit and Risk Management Committee, the main Such commodity prices, along with input costs mainly labour, steel and energy, decision making body.
are cyclical in nature and are influenced, among other things, by the strength of the global economic environment, resulting in wide fluctuations.
The Groups Risk Management function is responsible for managing this process, monitoring the key risks and managing them directly where appropriate.
This central risk Additionally, capital goods cost inflation impacting on capital expenditures, and the management function is responsible for the implementation of appropriate structures overall cost of development projects are further risk considerations.
and the co-ordinating of risk management activities across the Group.
Mitigation By applying detailed scenario analysis, NWRs business model takes into account commodity price fluctuations, which are closely monitored.
Strategic risks Future growth risks Relative flexibility compared to direct regional peers in both operating and capital Description costs allows NWR to relatively adapt quickly to changing market conditions, helping The growth of NWR is achieved through organic means as well as through acquisition.
to offset in part market weakness and or price inflation.
Organic growth can come through either expanding existing reserves or initiating new Contractual pricing for both coal and coke offers a certain degree of stability and projects.
Such growth involves risks of geology, cost overruns, delays to the start of predictability.
production to name a few potential issues.
NWR successfully implemented cost containment measures during 2012, and is committed to taking further measures in 2013 including substantial CAPEX reduction Acquired growth carries risks of selecting targets that may not fit strategically or are to EUR 120130. priced inappropriately in the Companys opinion.
NWR aims to reach annual maintenance CAPEX at OKD of around EUR 100150 million by 2017.
Additionally, there is the potential risk of lack of sufficient capital to finance growth.
NWR is strategically located in Central Europe, an area of relative economic resilience compared to Western Europe.
Mitigation Along with internal staff, NWR uses specialised advisers and contractors to produce detailed preparation studies and cost management plans for all its organic growth Sales volume risks plans.
This includes, and is not limited to, the current expansion of the Karvin mine, Description and the Dbiesko project.
On the latter, NWR is applying prudent capital spend in Demand for NWRs outputs is highly dependent on the health of the global and regional 2013 in light of continued tough market conditions.
economy, and in particular the steel industry, and competition from other suppliers to NWR continues to monitor potential M&A opportunities that are complementary the region.
We use strict and rigorous investment criteria before proceeding with a potential target.
NWR relies on third party transport operators to deliver its products to customers, an important component of the overall delivery price.
Wider macro risks As with prices, any changes in volumes sold has a significant impact on NWRs financial Description results due to its high operational leverage.
Implementation of additional taxes and regulations in Central Europe thereby Development of shale gas deposits may have an adverse effect on NWRs thermal coal sales.
threatening the regions attractiveness as a manufacturing destination, resulting in end customers such as automobile manufacturers moving their operations away Mitigation from the region.
NWR is one of Central Europes leading producers of coking coal and the largest Mitigation producer of foundry coke at a time when the European Union is a net importer NWR is located in the industrial centre of Europe.
NWR has longstanding relationships with a blue-chip customer base, with long-term Central Europe retains a level of resilience compared to Western Europe with an increasing orientation towards high-end steel products of the likes of automotive framework agreements in place.
Additionally, the Company has strong connections producers, mechanical engineering as well as high-speed railway.
NWR has close proximity to its customers.
Around 40 per cent of NWRs yearly revenue is exposed to high value added steel products.
Supplying to this customer group makes NWR less vulnerable to a potential Shale gas exploration remains at very early stages in Europe with high barriers increase in the regions taxation or regulation.
to entry implying viable commercial production is many years away.
