Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for the year The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and ended 30 April 2012. its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Results Interests in shares Profit for the year after taxation was 40,468,000 2011 29,393,000.
The following interests in the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company No interim dividend was paid on the Ordinary shares.
have been notified to the Company in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.0p per 30 April 2012 26 June 2012 share on the Ordinary shares.
This dividend, if approved, will be paid on 21 September 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of business on Standard Life Investments Limited 10,658,099 8.00% 10,852,029 8.14% 17 August 2012.
Aviva plc 6,582,482 4.94% 6,672,204 5.01% Henderson Global Investors Ltd 6,642,934 4.99% 6,665,585 5.00% The principal subsidiaries are listed in Note 18 to the accounts.
` i }ii ` 4,117,374 3.09% 4,117,374 3.09% The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, together with a description of the principal activities of the business, can be found in In addition to the above, Capital Group notified an indirect interest in the Operational Review and Financial Review on pages 10 to 21, which are 4,149,068 Ordinary shares of 5p each in January 2008, then representing incorporated in this report by reference.
5.9% of the issued Ordinary share capital.
As no later notification, post rights and consolidation has been received, it is assumed that Capital Group, as A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and investment managers, still retains an interest of between 5% and 10% of the the Group is set out on pages 20 and 21 which are incorporated into this current issued Ordinary share capital.
Directors Close company status Details of the present Directors are listed on pages 24 and 25.
All have served So far as the Directors are aware the close company provisions of the Income }ii iVi i` and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
Resolutions to re-appoint each of the Directors in office at the date of this Capital structure iLii` i ii ii} Details of the issued share capital, together with details of any movements The termination provisions in respect of executive Directors contracts are set during the year are shown in Note 26.
The Company has one class of out in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 32.
Ordinary share which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the The following are the interests of the Directors who were in office at the end right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
of the financial year in the share capital of the Company.
All interests are The cumulative Preference shares of 50p each entitle the holder to receive a beneficial.
cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5% on the paid up capital and Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 50p each of 50p each the right to a return of capital at either winding up or a repayment of capital.
30 April 2012 The cumulative Preference shares do not entitle the holders to any further or AJ Allner 13,090 13,090 other participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
JG Astrand 51,920 51,920 The percentage of the issued nominal value of the Ordinary shares is THP Brown 52,634 52,634 99.255% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
RL Contreras 116,608 115,048, Vii 100,000 100,000 There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles, 17,493 12,657 of Association the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not On date of appointment.
aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may No Director has an interest in the Preference shares of the Company.
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No changes in the above interests have occurred between 30 April 2012 and Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration the date of this report.
Shares held by the Capita Trust are voted on the instructions of the Details of options held by the Directors under the Companys various share employees on whose behalf they are held.
Shares in the Guernsey Trust are voted at the discretion of the Trustees.
schemes are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 32.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital Directors indemnities and all issued shares are fully paid.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, qualifying third party With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company indemnities for each Director of the Company were in place throughout is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance the year and remained in force as at the date of signing of this report.
The Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves Companys Articles of Association are available on the Companys website.
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are set out in the Articles.
Northgate plc Report of the Directors 26 Annual report and accounts 2012 Donations not issue shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three year period, other than to existing During the year the Group made charitable donations of 3,000 shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
2011 5,000 principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
Length of notice of general meetings No political donations were made.
The minimum notice period permitted by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of listed companies is 21 days, but the Act provides that Payment of suppliers V i i`Vii`{` i v `i` The Groups policy is to pay suppliers within normal trading terms agreed that two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the Company offers with that supplier.
The policy is made known to the staff who handle a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met payments to suppliers.
At 30 April 2012 the Groups creditor days were as if the Company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a shown in Note 21 to the accounts.
proxy by means of a website.
Please refer to Note 6 to the Notice of Annual ii ii} }inv`i vi }iiv electronic proxy appointment.
The second condition is that there is an annual Employee consultation resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice Employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as employees period from 21 days to 14 days.
and on various issues affecting the performance of the Group through A resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice for all announcements on the Groups intranet, to which all employees have access, formal and informal meetings at local level and direct written }ii ii}vi i Lii` i ii ii} i LiivviVii communications.
All employees are eligible to participate on an equal basis in the Groups share incentive plan, which has been running successfully since i ]ii`i` i Liiii` its inception in 2000.
It is the Boards intention that this authority would not be used as a matter of routine, but only when merited by the circumstances of the meeting and in Disabled employees the best interests of shareholders.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full consideration, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Every effort is Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares made to try to ensure that employees who become disabled whilst already The Directors propose to reinstate the general authority of the Company to employed are able to continue in employment by making reasonable make market purchases of its own shares to a total of 13,300,000 Ordinary adjustments in the workplace, arranging appropriate training or providing shares representing approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary share suitable alternative employment.
It is Group policy that the training, career capital and within the price constraints set out in the special resolution to be development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be i` i ii ii} the same as that of other employees.
The Groups equal opportunity policy is available on the Companys website.
There is no present intention to make any purchase of own shares and, if granted, the authority would only be exercised if to do so would result in an Remuneration report improvement in earnings per share for remaining shareholders.
As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Remuneration Report, set out on pages 28 to 32, will be put to shareholders Financial instruments v i ii ii} Details of the Groups use of financial instruments are given in the Financial Review on pages 18 and 19 and in Notes 23 and 39 to the accounts.
Power to allot shares The present authority of the Directors to allot shares was granted at the Auditor ii ii}i`-iiLi `ii i In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the vV} ii ii} iii date when this report was approved: v i`i} iVVvi ii ii}Li i`Lii` i ii ii} i U so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit will permit the Directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and 22m of share capital which represents less than 33% of the present issued U each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken Ordinary share capital and is within the limits approved by the Investment as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association as defined and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that of Pension Funds.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising such authority and no This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the issue of shares which would effectively alter the control of the Company will provisions of s418 Companies Act 2006. be made without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor of the A special resolution will be proposed to renew the authority of the Directors Lii` ivV} ii ii} to allot Ordinary shares for cash other than to existing shareholders on a proposal is supported by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The authority will be limited to an aggregate nominal By order of the Board amount of 3,330,000 representing approximately 5% of the current issued Ordinary share capital.
D Henderson The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority and Secretary confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative use of such authorities within 26 June 2012 a rolling three year period.
The Principles provide that companies should Northgate plc Report of the Directors 27 Annual report and accounts 2012
