Board of Directors The Board is confident that the dedication and hard work shown by all our employees over the past two years provides the Group with a strong platform upon which to build.
Bob Mackenzie ACA Bob Contreras ACA Appointed to the Board as Appointed Chief Executive on Chairman in February 2010.
7 June 2010 having been Group Prior to his appointment, he was Finance Director since June 2008 Chief Executive of Sea Containers when he joined the Group.
Ltd, including the Chairmanship of A Chartered Accountant, Bob has its subsidiary GNER.
He was until held senior positions with Azlan recently Chairman of Group plc, Damovo Group SA Dometic Holdings AB, a Swedish `iVi Vi based manufacturing company.
He was previously Chairman of PHS Group plc and held senior Left to right Board committees executive board appointments with National Parking Corporation, Bob Mackenzie ACA Audit and Risk BET plc, Storehouse plc and Chairman U `i i Hanson plc.
He has also acted as U ` Bob Contreras ACA a senior adviser to a number of U Chief Executive private equity funds.
"He qualied Remuneration as a Chartered Accountant with Chris Muir ACA U n }ix Group Finance Director U `i i Andrew Allner FCA U ` Non-executive Director U L Vii Jan Astrand Nominations Non-executive Director U L Vii U `i i Tom Brown ""] U ` U Non-executive Director Northgate plc Board of Directors 24 Annual report and accounts 2012 Chris Muir ACA Andrew Allner FCA Jan Astrand Tom Brown ""] Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board as Appointed to the Board as a Appointed to the Board as a Vi iV a non-executive Director and to non-executive Director in February non-executive Director in April Chris originally joined Northgate the Chair of the Audit and Risk 2001."
Jan is also currently a non- 2005 and appointed Senior as Group Accountant in 2003, Committee in September 2007. executive Director of Lavendon Independent Director in June 2007. being appointed Group Financial Andrew is currently Chairman Group plc.
A Swedish national, Jan Tom is a Director of a number of i V{ ` v V ` -i was Chairman of CRC Group plc private companies, and a member 1 Vi iV Independent Director and Chairman until January 2007.
Prior to this, he of the Economics Committee of the 2006.
Qualifying as a Chartered of the Audit Committee at AZ was Chairman of Car Park Group EEF.
He was previously Chairman Accountant in 1999, Chris worked iVV i - `i AB in Stockholm and also Senior of Chamberlin plc, Group Chief for Deloitte LLP from 1997 until Go-Ahead Group plc and serves Independent Director of PHS Executive of United Industries plc 2003, leaving as a manager.
as non-executive Director and Group Plc.
From 1994 to 1999 `Livi }} Chris has a first class honours Chairman of the Audit Committee he was President and Chief Director of Fenner plc.
In all he has degree in Economics and at CSR plc.
He was Group Finance Executive of Axus International served on the boards of UK quoted Accountancy from the University iVv, V] } i ` Inc. previously known as Hertz companies for some 25 years, of Newcastle upon Tyne.
Age 36. role in its otation in July 2005 Leasing International.
From 1989 following executive roles with GKN on the London Stock Exchange.
{i 6Vi i`i] plc and a period consulting with }, V] `i Finance and Administration and V iE V }i was CEO of Enodis plc and has Chief Financial officer of Hertz served in senior executive positions Europe Ltd and before that he with Dalgety plc, Amersham was Chief Financial officer of International plc and Guinness Commodore International Ltd plc.
He was also a non-executive based in the US.
A graduate of Oxford University, he is a former partner of Price Waterhouse and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Northgate plc Board of Directors 25 Annual report and accounts 2012
