Our business model Buy national network of branches We constantly strive to improve our and workshops in the UK and Our customers can choose from Spain provide 24 7 support with the widest range of vehicle makes range of services, challenging our replacement vehicles on hand to and models available in our sector, keep customers on the move.
We with the exibility to switch vehicle business model regularly as we seek offer a range of ancillary services types as their needs evolve.
In which enable customers to enjoy order to achieve this, we partner to deliver operational and financial operational benets through with a range of manufacturers.
efficient fleet management, Pricing is negotiated directly and benets throughout the with our fully outsourced fleet the purchasing mix is managed management service providing the in order to minimise the overall buy-manage-sell fleet life cycle.
holding cost of vehicles to the business.
The volume of purchases Internally we aim to deliver the is balanced against vehicle sales very best service levels whilst in order to manage fleet age, maintaining operating efficiency condition and vehicle utilisation to and vehicle utilisation in order an optimal level.
to maximise return on capital employed.
Manage Sell With over 30 years experience in Manage the fleet management sector, we In order to provide the best possible are in the best position to partner service to our customers we our customers and complement maintain a modern fleet.
When their fleet requirements, whether vehicles reach the end of their this is by providing a single short hire lives we aim to minimise their Buy term hire or a fully outsourced fleet overall holding costs through the management solution.
effective use of our retail and trade sales channels.
We offer a fully As we are not afliated to any exible product which allows single manufacturer, we offer our customers to tailor vehicles to customers the best available range their exact requirements and of quality used commercial vehicles manage the size and composition in the market.
of their fleet without penalty.
Our Sell 1 We offer the widest range of vehicles to hire in the market, which can be tailored exactly to our customers requirements.
2 Our national network of branches keeps us close to our customers wherever they are working.
"3 2 ""6 ii i network offers the biggest range of quality used light commercial vehicles for sale in the market."
13 1 Northgate plc Our business model 3 Annual report and accounts 2012
