Our strategy and key performance indicators In a challenging trading environment Asset management the strategy of the Group has The overall holding cost of vehicles needs to be minimised and utilisation needs to be maintained at a high level in order to maximise return on remained clear: to deliver market capital employed ROCE whilst holding enough vehicles to meet the exible demands of our customers.
leading levels of customer service, focus on improving operational Pricing efficiency, and create a resilient and The hire rate achieved is a key contributor to ROCE.
Hire rates need to sustainable business for the future.
reect the level of exibility and service offered to our customers.
This strategy, delivered through Customer service In order to grow the business our product must deliver the highest One Northgate has realised an possible levels of customer service to set us apart from our competitors.
improved return on capital employed of 13.1% with further improvements targeted going forward.
Return on capital employed ROCE In a capital intensive business, ROCE is a more important measure of performance than profitability alone, as low margin business returns low value to shareholders.
Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS is considered to be a key short term measure of performance.
One Northgate A consistent and high An organisation matched Investing in the future level of customer service to the customers needs The objective of One Northgate is A significant investment in the to provide an industry leading The key to One Northgate is The re-organisation of the UK and network infrastructure began this service experience that is delivered delivering a consistently high Spanish businesses has continued year with the opening of new consistently to our customers level of customer service.
All of to ensure that we are closer to the branches in Grantham and across the UK and Spain.
our fleet has to meet a minimum customer and can provide a base Cannock, and significant rentable standard and the that will create a resilient and refurbishment of eight branches Not just a rebrand established ready-to-rent line sustainable business for the across the UK.
The new blueprint The initial phase of One means that an increased number vi Vi equips workshops with the latest Northgate, rebranding our and range of vehicles is available began to operate from five technology, and improves previous hire companies in the UK to customers at short notice.
regions in the UK, supported by a customer facilities to increase and Spain as Northgate has been newly formed Customer Support efficiency and enhance the Improvements in workshop successfully achieved.
Whilst this Centre and Financial Shared customer experience.
Further planning systems, the increased has improved awareness of the Services Centre, which now gives investment is planned for 2013. availability of mobile technicians, Northgate brand, the key to us greater focus on our key assets, and delivery drivers using PDAs achieving One Northgate is to namely our customers, employees have all helped to maximise the raise expectations of the high and our fleet.
time that customers vehicles levels of customer service that are on the road, and internally underpin our name.
have improved the efficiency of our operations.
Northgate plc Our strategy and 4 Annual report and accounts 2012 key performance indicators Performance Target Utilisation was maintained close to our 90% target in the UK and Spain The minimum target for both segments is to maintain utilisation despite a reduction in vehicles on hire of 7,400 in the UK and 5,400 in above 90%.
The holding cost of vehicles will be minimised through managing the A total of 25,200 vehicles were sold in the UK and 16,800 in Spain at mix of purchases and improving the quality and volume of vehicles sold i`i` i6iViV iiiL Vi` } ii through higher margin retail sales channels.
disposals to manage the average fleet age to 21.4 months in the UK and 21.8 months in Spain at 30 April 2012.
Underlying hire rates improved by 4% in the UK and remained stable i ii` iLiiiviiVi i in Spain.
fleet is grown at rates that are beneficial to ROCE.
Further improvements are targeted through the recovery of other costs incurred.
We have various measures of assessing customer service, with the Whilst trading conditions are expected to remain challenging, the overall indicator being the number of vehicles on hire.
substantial completion of restructuring in each business provides a stable platform for growth going forward.
Growth will only be pursued where Through the implementation of our One Northgate strategy, we have profitable opportunities exist.
made significant progress in the year to raise the level and consistency of ViiVi`iii` Vi 6iVii ii`Vi` in the year, reecting the difficult trading environment in the markets in which we operate.
ROCE is maximised through a combination of managing utilisation, hire Each KPI has been targeted for improvement to contribute to an overall rates, vehicle holding costs and improvements in operational efficiency.
increase in ROCE of the Group.
Group ROCE is targeted to increase above levels previously achieved.
1 Group ROCE for the year increased to 13.1% 2011 11.9%.
3 Basic EPS increased to 31.5p from 29.0p in the prior year.
The target is to maximise shareholder value by increasing EPS in the short term alongside longer term return on equity.
3 Earnings of 41.9m were 9% higher than in the previous year.
The weighted average number of shares was 133.2m, 0.2m higher than the previous year.
Gr Gro owing the business wing the business 1 Our centralised Customer Support Our pr Our pro oduct is suited well to the duct is suited well to the Centre and Financial Shared curr current economic climate with ent economic climate with Service Centre have been many businesses facing many businesses facing successfully launched in the year, uncertainty and looking for a way uncertainty and looking for a way delivering a more consistent and to operate mor to operate more efficiently e efficiently.. efficient service to our customers.
Commer Commercial operations in the UK cial operations in the UK and Spain have been r and Spain have been restructur estructured ed 2 to make sur to make sure e that we ar that we are e focused focused Investment in our UK workshop in the right ar in the right areas.
We e know the know the infrastructure began this year with importance of listening: not only importance of listening: not only the refurbishment of eight sites.
1 11 to make sur to make sure t e that we understand hat we understand Further investment will continue our customers needs but to our customers needs but to into 2013. make sur make sure that we don e that we dont miss any t miss any 3 opportunity for them to shar opportunity for them to share in e in Commercial operations have been the benets that Northgate can the benets that Northgate can restructured in the UK and Spain of offer their business.
to provide a platform for growth.
23 2 2 3 3 Northgate plc Our strategy and 5 Annual report and accounts 2012 key performance indicators
