Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 14 Strategy Our strategic objective is to build a businesswhich ismore than a supermarket simpler, quicker, more personal and convenient for the customer: more productiveand informativefor suppliers: and ultimately more valuable for investors.
In order to achieve this we seek to create a virtuous cycle of growth and long-termprotability.
Growth results from increasing the active pool of valuable customers attracting new shoppers, retaining more of these customers on a long-term basis, and encouraging customers to spend more with us.
Consumers are strongly influenced by the attractiveness of the proposition we present to them.
Therefore, we continually seek to improve the attractiveness of our retail offer taking our service and usability to ever higher industry levels, offering a wide and relevant range of fresh, quality products which are keenly priced and offer good value for money.
Our strategy for driving long-term profitability is to operate with industry leading service at the lowest possible cost.
We seek to achieve this through the business model that we adopt, and by optimising operational efficiency in each part of our business.
We use automation and technology where there is an efficiency or cost benefit from doing so.
As demand grows, we ensure we have the right assets and sufficient capacity in order to service our increasing numbers of customers and their requirements.
Technology is at the core of our business.
We develop and utilise proprietary intellectual property and technology throughout our business to improve efficiency and operations, and to provide market leading user interfaces and applications for our customers.
We will continue to leverage our technology expertise to add value to our business, both in direct operations and through monetising this proprietary IP knowledge.
Proprietary technology forms the foundation of our business STRATEGY Stock code: OCDO www.
com 15 Developing the proposition Service Deliver highest standards DRIVING GROWTH to customers of on-time delivery, accuracy and improved ease of use Price Improve customer confidence in pricing, with relevant promotions and price matching guarantees Range Extensive choice in both food and non-food, with products our customers want and with superior freshness... to grow customer numbers and spend New customers Attract more loyal customers Existing customers Improve customer retention levels Optimising operations Deploy cost efficient fullment DELIVERING automation PROFITABILITY Continually improve operating systems and optimisations Building capacity and Open new Customer Fullment Centre leveraging scale CFC2 to more than double capacity Strengthen non-food infrastructure Leverage scale to improve margin, delivery efficiency, administration and xed cost allocation Developing market leading intellectual Monetising value from this proprietary MONETISING property and technology technology platform KNOWLEDGE operating our end-to-end solution for grocery retail STRATEGY INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
