com 51 documentation necessary to implement the Chairman Designate Part A share award and the proposed long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration Committee In addition to the external advice received, the Remuneration Membership Committee consulted and received reports from the Companys Chief Executive officer, the Director of Human Resources and The current membership of the Remuneration Committee the Deputy Company Secretary.
together with appointment dates, is set out below.
Remuneration Committee Principal activities of the Remuneration Committee Member member since during 2012 Douglas McCallum Chairman 3 October 2011 The role of the Remuneration Committee is outlined on page 37.
Ruth Anderson 9 March 2010 In line with its terms of reference, the following key matters were David Grigson 5 February 2013 considered by the Remuneration Committee since the start of the period: Since the prior period, the composition of the Remuneration approval of the draft Directors remuneration report: Committee has changed with: i the resignation of David Young at the AGM in May 2012: ii the appointment in March 2012 undertaking a tender process for the appointment of a new and then subsequent resignation in January 2013 of Wendy remuneration consultant: Becker: iii the appointment of David Grigson in February 2013: and iv both Jrn Rausing and Robert Gorrie standing appointing Deloitte LLP as external remuneration consultants: down from the Remuneration Committee in February 2013. formulating senior executive remuneration principles: The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee changed first with the appointment of Wendy Becker to the position in May implementation of the 2012 Annual Incentive Plan including 2012 in place of David Young and then with the appointment consideration of the structure and selection of performance targets: of Douglas McCallum to the position in January 2013.
The design of the proposed long-term incentive plan for Executive biography of each member of the Remuneration Committee is Directors and senior management: set out on pages 32 and 33. review of performance under the 2011 Annual Incentive Plan Other attendees at the Remuneration Committee meetings include: and consideration of any bonuses payable: approval of the remuneration for the new Chief Financial officer, Regular Attend as Attendees attendee required the Chairman Designate and new Operations Director: Chief Executive Officer consulting shareholders with respect to remuneration of the Director of Human Resources Chairman Designate: Deputy Company Secretary review of the terms of a share reallocation under the JSOS External advisers Deloitte LLP scheme to newly appointed Executive Directors: Chairman of Board Director of Legal and Business receiving a report from management on Executive Director Affairs and Company Secretary remuneration benchmarking: consulting the Chief Executive officer on performance and The Chairman, the Company Secretary and the Executive remuneration of the Executive Directors: Directors and other attendees are not involved in any decisions receiving a report on Group-wide and management of the Remuneration Committee and are not present at any remuneration for 2012: and discussions regarding their own remuneration.
review of the Remuneration Committees performance.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 40.
Annual review External advice In addition to its annual performance evaluation, discussed on page During the period, the Remuneration Committee appointed 40, the Remuneration Committee carried out a review of its terms of external remuneration advisers, Deloitte LLP, to advise the reference during the period.
The review resulted in some changes Remuneration Committee.
The mandate includes the review needed to reect the relevant revised external guidance.
of the Companys existing remuneration policies and the development of the proposed long-term incentive arrangements.
Deloitte LLP confirmed to the Company that it is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte LLP have been separately engaged by the Company to provide advice on a range of Company tax matters.
Apart from this engagement, the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there is no connection between the Company and Deloitte LLP.
Separately the Company engaged Slaughter and May to provide advice on employment law, share schemes and tax as well as general UK legal advice in respect of a number of the Companys remuneration matters.
This included providing advice and DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 52 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Remuneration principles for Executive Directors The Companys current senior executive remuneration principles apply to the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
The main principles of senior executive remuneration are set out below.
Support long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value Be aligned to the Encourage a business strategy and the high-performance culture achievement of planned business goals Remuneration Provide a balance between attracting, Principles retaining and motivating Be compatible with the the right calibre of Groups risk policies and candidates, and taking systems into account the entrepreneurial culture of business Ensure that performance related pay constitutes a Link maximum payout significant proportion of to outstanding results the overall package The Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that total executive remuneration for its senior executives meets these principles including providing an appropriate balance between remuneration elements that attract, retain and motivate the right calibre of senior executive talent and take into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
This is important to ensure that the Company has the necessary senior executives to deliver business growth and implement its strategy.
When reviewing the appropriateness of the remuneration framework this year, we considered the incentive arrangements used in the previous period not only in the context of the business strategy but also against current and proposed external guidelines for executive remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is very aware of the sensitive environment surrounding executive pay.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to seek to maintain a balance between xed and variable remuneration to best encourage achievement of such objectives.
The existing balance of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is set out in the following charts which show the total Executive Director remuneration package split between xed pay both salary and pension, but not benets and variable pay that is, the Annual Incentive Plan for threshold and maximum performance.
These charts do not include JSOS awards, ESOS awards or the Sharesave Scheme and do not reect the proposed new LTIP schemes.
Threshold performance Maximum performance Key Key 26% Salary Salary Pension Pension 45% Annual Incentive Plan 51% Annual Incentive Plan 69% 5% 4% DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Stock code: OCDO www.
com 53 The current remuneration of the Executive Directors consists of the following xed and variable elements: Fixed Pay Performance-related pay Base Pay and benets Annual Long-term over 3 years see pages 53 and 57 Annual Incentive Plan JSOS see pages 53, 56 and 57 see pages 54 and 58 Pension All employee share plans - Sharesave and ESOS see pages 53 and 57 see pages 54 and 58 Shareholding targets a Base pay and benefits Policy How it operates Attract and retain the right calibre of senior executive required to Base pay is paid monthly in cash.
support the long-term interests of the business.
Reviewed annually by the Chief Executive Officer and the Base salary: be broadly at market rate compared with similar Remuneration Committee, with any changes becoming effective in senior executive roles and levels of responsibility in companies of a April each year.
similar size and complexity to the Group.
Base pay is supplemented with private medical insurance, life Base salary: periodically reviewed taking into account the Groups assurance, travel insurance and Company-wide employee benefits.
annual review process, business performance, total remuneration, appropriate market data and an individuals contribution to the Group.
Benefits are aligned with those of all employees.
b Pension Policy How it operates Provide a market competitive level of pension provision.
Defined contribution Group personal pension scheme administered by Standard Life.
Groups contributions for the Executive Directors are on the same terms as for other employees.
The Groups contributions are a percentage of salary based on length of scheme membership.
c Annual Incentive Plan Policy How it operates Provide a direct link between measurable and predictable Requires the Group to achieve stretching targets in order for Company and or role specific performance and reward.
Executives Directors to be paid the maximum bonus.
Each target has a percentage of base pay allocated to it.
In 2012, there were Incentivise the achievement of outstanding results aligned to the four levels of performance for each target: business strategy and the achievement of planned business goals.
below threshold: 0% of the target amount payable: threshold: 25% of the target amount payable: target: 50% of the target amount payable: and stretch: 100% of the target amount payable.
The maximum bonus is a percentage of salary.
For 2012, this percentage was 80% of base salary for the Executive Directors and 100% for the Chief Executive Officer.
Bonus payments, if made, are payable in cash after the results of the Group have been audited.
There is no deferred payment or payment in shares.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 54 Directors remuneration report continued d Share incentive schemes The Group currently operates three employee share incentive schemes, two of which are all employee HMRC approved schemes.
The Executive Directors generally participate in all of these share schemes with few exceptions.
The JSOS is the most material of these share incentive schemes for the Executive Directors.
The Groups long-term incentives for senior executives are intended to: use equity to reward the creation of long-term shareholder value through the long-term growth of Ocado and the successful implementation of the Company strategy: ensure focus on increasing delivery of absolute long-term revenue growth, the efficient use of capital over the long-term and ensuring that Ocado maintains a strong liquidity position: and retain the senior executives over the performance period of the awards.
Policy How it operates JSOS Attract, retain and incentivise senior executives.
The JSOS was established before the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange.
There is no arrangement for the regular Align the interests of the senior executives and the shareholders, annual issue of shares to the Executive Directors under the by driving share price growth over four years.
It was used for one-off recruitment and promotion of new Executive Directors during the period.
The participants and Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, the EBT Trustee, acquire separate beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company.
The participant may lose his investment in the shares.
Shares vest annually over a four year period.
The participant benets from the increase in value of the shares above a predetermined market price for each tranche.
ESOS Attract, retain and incentivise senior executives.
All employees, including the Executive Directors, are issued options under the ESOS shortly after commencing employment Align the interests of the senior executives and the shareholders.
There is no arrangement for the annual issue of options to the Executive Directors under the ESOS.
A grant may not exceed 30,000 under the HMRC approved part of the scheme and three times annual salary under the unapproved part of the scheme.
Options vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to continued service and satisfaction of any performance conditions.
If vested, the options may be exercised at any time between the third and tenth anniversaries of grant at the executives discretion.
Performance conditions are normally applicable for a minimum period of three years for discretionary grants.
Sharesave Attract, retain and incentivise senior executives.
The Company grants options over shares in the Company to employees, including the Executive Align the interests of the senior executives and the shareholders.
To obtain an option an eligible individual must agree to save a xed monthly amount for three years up to the maximum monthly amount of 250.
The amount saved will determine the number of shares over which the option is granted.
Options are granted at a discount to the market price at the time of grant.
Options may be exercised in a six month period three years from the date of grant, subject to continued service.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Stock code: OCDO www.
com 55 and approved by the Companys shareholders.
Up to 7.5% of Director shareholding obligation the Companys ordinary issued share capital may be held under It is the policy of the Company that the senior executives the JSOS.
are expected to build-up over a period of time, and hold, a minimum level of shareholding in the Company.
This is The Remuneration Committee considers that these limits, considered an effective way to align the interests of the above, place significant constraint on the size of potential Executive Directors and shareholders in the long-term.
The awards of shares of individuals including, the Executive Remuneration Committee has not set any target shareholding Directors under the JSOS.
levels for the senior executives.
For these purposes, no account is taken of ordinary shares Contracts allocated prior to the Admission of the Companys ordinary All notice periods for the Executive Director contracts are set shares to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority on 26 July at 12 months.
The Companys remuneration policy provides 2010. that if the Executive Directors service contracts are terminated without cause, Ocado Limited can request that they work their The Company monitors the number of shares issued under notice period, take a period of garden leave or can pay an these schemes and their impact on dilution.
The graphs below amount in lieu of notice equal to one times their basic salary shows the Companys commitment, as at the last practical for the remainder of their notice period.
These payments would date prior to the publication date of this annual report, to be subject to deductions for tax and national insurance.
The issue new shares in respect of its share schemes assuming all contracts contain restrictive covenants, which continue for 12 performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in months after termination.
The contracts do not contain any employment to the vesting date and all awards are settled in specic provisions relating to a change of control of the business.
The Companys policy is that contractual terms on termination All share plans and any payments made are fair to the senior executive and the Key Group.
Any severance payments should reect real earnings Actual loss only of the senior executive.
Payments will be reduced Limit where senior executives move to other employment.
The Company should avoid rewarding failure or poor performance of a senior executive.
1.90% 10% External appointments It is the Companys policy and a requirement of the contract of employment that the Executive Director may not take up Executive share plans non-executive directorships or other appointments without the approval of the Board.
Any outside appointments are Key considered by the Nominations Committee or the Board to Actual ensure they would not cause a conict of interest and are then Limit approved by the Board.
The Board would not usually agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive 0.65% directorship of a FTSE100 company or the chairmanship of 5% such a company.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
This summary does not include any possible commitments Dilution limits under proposed new schemes, including the Chairman Awards granted under the Companys Sharesave scheme and Designate share award and the new LTIP awards, both of which ESOS are met by the issue of new shares when the options are are subject to shareholder approval.
The allocation of awards under the JSOS were met by the subscription for new shares by the participant and the EBT.
There are limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the Companys share plans.
These dilution limits were recommended by the Remuneration Committee and incorporated into the rules of the various share schemes, which have been approved by the Companys shareholders.
The dilution limits restrict the commitment to issue new ordinary shares under all share schemes of the Group to 10% of the nominal amount of the Companys issued share capital and under the JSOS and any other selective share scheme to 5% of the nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company.
These limits are consistent with the guidelines of institutional shareholders.
The JSOS rules have additional overriding limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the JSOS.
These dilution limits, were also recommended by the Remuneration Committee DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 56 Directors remuneration report continued If a participant leaves during the currency of the scheme, he Performance conditions may lose all or part of his beneficial interest, depending on Annual Incentive Plan the circumstances in which he leaves that is, whether he is a good leaver, bad leaver or very bad leaver.
Apart The Remuneration Committee adjusts the design of the Annual from these leaver provisions and the vesting period for each Incentive Plan each year to incentivise the delivery of key tranche, there are no performance conditions attaching to the objectives for that financial year.
For the period, the Annual shares in the JSOS.
The share price hurdles are considered Incentive Plan was based on the performance targets set out by the Remuneration Committee to be stretching at the time below being percentages of base salary.
Given the participants invest their own money or take a Company loan to pay for their allocation of shares in the JSOS except that no loan was offered to an Key 25% 25% Executive Director, they stand to lose money under the JSOS Group gross sales if the hurdles are not met which is unlike most other employee Group EBITDA share schemes.
The Remuneration Committee believes that 1 Customer order fulfilment this structure helps align the participants interests with those Customer delivery of shareholders.
The JSOS was overwhelmingly supported by 2 12.5% timeliness shareholders, both when initially approved by shareholders 3 Strategic targets 25% prior to IPO and when the scheme was expanded in 2011, with 12.5% 99.13% of votes cast by shareholders supporting the 2011 AGM resolution.
1 The percentage of all items delivered exactly as ordered that is, the percentage of items neither missing nor substituted, as reported on page 24.
Remuneration policy for Chairman 2 The percentage of all deliveries that are on time or early reported on page 24.
3 Budget and timing milestones relating to CFC2.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the Chairman within the limits set in the Companys Articles.
Financial performance measures, namely gross sales and The fee for the Chairman reects the level of commitment and EBITDA, were the primary targets, with 50% of the annual responsibility of the role.
bonus being determined by performance against targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial The Chairmans fee is paid monthly in cash, inclusive of all year.
The performance measures were set by reference to the committee roles and is not performance related or pensionable.
Companys budget for the period.
Of the balance, 25% related The Chairman remuneration should not include bonus to a key strategic objective of the Group, the completion of payments or options.
the CFC2 project on time and within budget.
Each target was discrete and could be earned separately.
Remuneration policy for In addition to the above performance targets, the Remuneration Non-Executive Directors Committee set two pre-conditions which had to be satisfied before a payment under the Annual Incentive Plan could be The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive made regardless of the performance against the targets.
Directors within the limits set in the Companys Articles.
These pre-conditions were that: i the Group achieves positive EBT for the period: and ii the Group does not breach any of The Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of a its financial covenants under the Groups 100 million credit Director fee including in the case of each Board committee facility during the period and in the period from the end of the chairman an additional fee for chairing a Board committee.
period to the date of bonus payment.
Their remuneration does not include bonus payments, options or shares and is not pensionable.
The fees are paid monthly in The Annual Incentive Plan was subject to continued service cash and there are no other benets.
However if the Remuneration Committee determines that an Executive Director should be treated as a Fees are set at a level that ensures the Company can attract good leaver he may receive a proportion of the bonus that and retain individuals with the required skills, experience and would otherwise have been payable, based on how much of the knowledge so that the Board is able to effectively carry out its performance period had elapsed.
The remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors did not change during the period.
JSOS The Company operates a long-term incentive plan called Remuneration during 2012 the joint share ownership scheme the JSOS.
It was Director remuneration established prior to the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The JSOS was structured to provide a longThe total remuneration paid to all of the Directors, including term incentive for participants, by allowing the participant to pension contributions, during the period was 1,961,000. benefit from the increase if any in the value of the shares above a predetermined market price set by the Remuneration Committee the hurdle price.
Interests in the Companys shares are granted in tranches, each vesting a year apart with a higher hurdle rate for each tranche to reect the targeted growth in the Companys share price over the vesting period.
Details of this for the Executive Directors are set out in the table on page 66.
No regular annual awards are made under the JSOS.
com 57 Executive Directors Total Remuneration The total remuneration for the period for each of the current Executive Directors is set out in the table below: Annual Incentive Benefits in Plan Share Total Salary kind Pension Bonus Plans remuneration Executive Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 ESOS JSOS Sharesave Tim Steiner 350 1 28 104 483 Jason Gissing 250 1 20 59 330 Neill Abrams 200 1 16 48 4 268 Duncan Tatton-Brown 75 38 113 Mark Richardson 184 15 77 276 Former Director Andrew Bracey 79 1 2 0 82 Note the above summary table differs from the remuneration table in Part B of this Directors remuneration report in that it shows only the Executive Directors, it shows all relevant remuneration amounts including pension and share plan vesting and it also contains amounts relating to, but not necessarily paid and received in, the 2011 2012 financial year.
The Remuneration Committee based its decision to make an i Base Salary individual increase in salary for the Chief Executive officer on his The base pay for Executive Directors except the Chief Executive significant individual performance and external market data for the officer, did not change over the course of the period, and has not role.
The market data showed a material gap between the market increased since December 2009. rate for chief executive roles at companies of a similar size and complexity to the Group.
This approach is in line with the Groups The Remuneration Committee made this recommendation on the policy where individuals achieve higher personal performance and basis of a number of factors and following a presentation from make very significant contributions to the Group.
the Chief Executive officer and the Director of Human Resources and consultation with the Chairman.
In considering this decision Base pay will be subject to further review in the subsequent period.
the Remuneration Committee also took into account benchmark data for a comparator group of listed company executives.
The ii Pension externally sourced data compared the Executive Director roles Pension contributions for Executive Directors are outlined on with similar senior executive roles in companies of a similar size page 64. and complexity to the Company.
The Remuneration Committee also took into account a report from management concerning pay iii Benefits elsewhere in the Group.
The Group had increased pay for the Groups employees in that year, as it had done in previous years The Executive Directors received benets during the period in line with the Companys budgeted costs for the year.
In light of including private medical insurance, life assurance, travel the lower than forecast trading performance of the business and insurance and Group-wide employee benets, such as an the operational problems faced by the business during the period, employee product discount.
The value of private medical the Remuneration Committee felt that keeping base pay for the insurance is outlined on page 64.
Executive Directors except the Chief Executive officer, unchanged for the time being was commensurate with such lower than iv Annual Incentive Plan and bonus targeted performance.
In the case of the Chief Executive officer The Remuneration Committee has recommended a bonus the Remuneration Committee agreed to increase his base pay from payment under the 2012 Annual Incentive Plan for the period.
recommendation is based on the following achievement of targets: Financial performance The Groups gross sales and EBITDA for the period did not exceed the threshold target set by the Remuneration Committee, so no bonus is payable in respect of the financial performance targets.
Customer service targets The threshold level for the customer delivery timeliness target was not met.
The threshold level for the customer order fullment target was exceeded, so a proportion of the bonus relating to the cutomer targets is payable, equal to 4.69%.
Strategic objective CFC2 was delivered on time and on budget, so the maxiumum bonus of 25% in relation to the strategic objective is payable.
Preconditions Both preconditions were met as the Group achieved positive EBT in the period excluding exceptional items and the Group did not breach any of its financial covenants under the 100 million debt facility.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 58 Directors remuneration report continued Duncan Tatton-Brown is not a participant in the 2012 Annual as a result of his promotion from the Management Committee Incentive Plan as he was appointed on 1 September 2012, to Executive Director.
The intention was to align all Executive after the plan had commenced.
He will be participating in the Directors incentives so far as possible by ensuring that each 2013 Annual Incentive Plan.
Duncan Tatton-Brown was paid a had a comparable participation in the JSOS scheme.
The share cash bonus of 37,500 representing his contractual entitlement interests were acquired by the Directors from Appleby Trust to a bonus payment for the period of service during the 2012 Jersey Limited the EBT Trustee in shares already held by financial year.
This one-off payment was part of Duncans the EBT Trustee: no rights to acquire newly issued ordinary appointment to the Board.
shares had been created and accordingly this acquisition of beneficial interests did not dilute shareholders.
On this basis In addition to his participation in the 2012 Annual Incentive the Remuneration Committee felt this departure from the Plan, Mark Richardson was paid a discretionary bonus of Companys usual practice was justied.
The Remuneration Committee approved the payment of a one-off cash bonus to Mark in recognition of his Both Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark Richardson invested their performance and contribution to the Company particularly in own money to pay for these share interests in the JSOS, so they respect of the CFC2 project.
stand to lose their investment in the JSOS if the share price hurdles are not exceeded.
The Remuneration Committee considered that, although both one-off payments were made outside the 2012 Annual Incentive The beneficial interests in ordinary shares acquired by the Plan, the amounts were moderate in size and in line with the new Executive Directors were divided into two tranches, the Companys remuneration policy which allows the Remuneration first share interests which vest in 2013 and the second share Committee to exercise discretion in unique circumstances.
The hurdle prices and vesting dates are set out on page 66. v Share plans Further details of each of the elements of total remuneration ESOS above are given on the following pages of this annual report: No options under the ESOS were granted to Directors during the period.
Fixed Pay Details Base Salary 57 The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Pension 57 report, have any intention of making a further award of options under the ESOS scheme to the Executive Directors.
Existing Pay for performance Details options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS were Annual Incentive Plan 57 granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010.
Share plans 58 Sharesave Non-Executive Directors The participation of the Executive Directors except Mark Richardson in the Sharesave Scheme commenced with options The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman granted in October 2010 and a savings contract period that during the period are set out in the remuneration table in Part started in December 2010.
A second invitation to employees B of this report.
Neither the Chairman nor any Non-Executive was made under the Sharesave Scheme in February 2012.
Director were paid a bonus during the period.
The remuneration Jason Gissing cancelled his 2010 savings contract under arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors not including the Sharesave Scheme and commenced a savings contract the Chairman Designate did not change during the period and in May 2012 and with options granted in March 2012.
Mark have not changed since early 2010.
The remuneration for the Richardson does not participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
Chairman has not changed since his appointment in 2006.
Employees were offered the opportunity to participate at an The Board considers that the remuneration for Non-Executive option price which was discounted from the applicable market Directors reects the time commitment and responsibilities of value of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
invitation the discount to market price was 15% and in the 2012 invitation the discount was 10%.
Executive Directors service contracts Ocado Limited has entered into service contracts with each JSOS of the Executive Directors for the provision of services to the Some JSOS shares have not yet vested, and those that have Group.
Each of the contracts was entered into on 22 June 2010, vested have not met the relevant hurdle prices, so the Executive except in the cases of Mark Richardson and Duncan TattonDirectors did not receive any remuneration in respect of Brown.
Mark Richardson joined the Board as an Operations the JSOS.
Director on 23 January 2012 and Duncan Tatton-Brown joined the Board as Chief Financial officer on 1 September 2012 During the period, interests in 1,465,000 ordinary shares were and their new service contracts were entered into with Ocado acquired by Duncan Tatton-Brown and interests in 1,488,675 Limited, effective from the date of their appointments.
ordinary shares were acquired by Mark Richardson under the JSOS.
The Remuneration Committee recommended these oneoff awards to the new Executive Directors on their appointment to the Board, notwithstanding that the JSOS was used to make awards prior to the Companys listing to the then Executive Directors.
Duncans participation in the JSOS was in connection with his appointment to the Board and was a contractual entitlement.
Given Duncan joined the Company in September 2012 his participation is limited to two tranches of JSOS shares.
Mark had increased the size of his participation in the JSOS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Stock code: OCDO www.
com 59 The terms of these contracts, together with the dates on which each Executive Director was appointed by Ocado Limited and the Company respectively, are set out below: Date of Date of appointment appointment Notice period Notice period by Ocado by Ocado by Company by Director Director Limited Group plc Unexpired term months months months Current age Jason Gissing 02 02 2000 09 03 2010 Continuous employment until 12 6 42 terminated by either party Tim Steiner 13 04 2000 09 03 2010 Continuous employment until 12 6 43 terminated by either party Neill Abrams 08 09 2000 10 12 2009 Continuous employment until 12 6 48 terminated by either party.
Mark Richardson 03 02 2012 23 01 2012 Continuous employment until 12 6 48 terminated by either party Duncan Tatton- 01 09 2012 01 09 2012 Continuous employment until 12 6 48 Brown terminated by either party Former Director Andrew Bracey 03 11 2009 10 12 2009 Continuous employment until 12 6 46 terminated by either party.
As explained in the statement of corporate governance on page 38, the Companys previous Chief Financial officer, Andrew Bracey, resigned from the Board on 23 March 2012.
All of the current Executive Directors have been proposed for re-election at the Companys AGM.
External appointments for Executive Directors As at the date of this Annual Report, Neill Abrams holds an alternate director position at Mr Price Group Limited, a company incorporated and operating in South Africa, and Duncan Tatton-Brown is a non-executive director at Rentokil Initial plc.
Any remuneration for such roles is set out in Part B of this Directors remuneration report.
Letters of appointment The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and were appointed to the Company by letter of appointment.
The details of each Non-Executive Director appointment including those that served as a Director during the period are set out below: Date of Date of appointment appointment by Ocado by Ocado Current Notice period Director Limited Group plc term months Current age Robert Gorrie 01 04 2000 09 03 2010 3 years 1 53 David Young 13 10 2000 09 03 2010 3 years 1 71 Jrn Rausing 13 03 2003 09 03 2010 3 years 1 53 Lord Grade 15 09 2006 09 03 2010 3 years 6 70 David Grigson 03 02 2010 09 03 2010 3 years 1 58 Ruth Anderson 09 03 2010 3 years 1 59 Douglas McCallum 03 10 2011 3 years 1 46 Wendy Becker 30 03 2012 3 years 1 47 Alex Mahon 01 06 2012 3 years 1 39 Sir Stuart Rose 11 03 2013 3 years 6 63 The Company appointed two Non-Executive Directors to the Board during the period.
Wendy Becker was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 30 March 2012.
Alex Mahon joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2012.
After the period, the Company appointed Sir Stuart Rose as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 11 March 2013.
David Young resigned from the Board at the Companys AGM on 23 May 2012 and Wendy Becker resigned from the Board on 21 January 2013.
Director shareholdings As outlined in the below table, all of the Executive Directors, other than Mark Richardson who was appointed to the Board in January 2012, own shares in the Company and collectively they have a very large shareholding in the Companys issued share capital, as at the date of this annual report.
Almost all of the Non-Executive Directors own shares in the Company.
The Directors, including their respective trusts, hold 19.49% of the Companys issued share capital.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 60 Directors remuneration report continued All of the Executive Directors have invested in share interests under the JSOS scheme and so have placed actual personal wealth at risk through this scheme.
These arrangements help to ensure that all of the Directors interests are aligned with those of shareholders of the Company.
The beneficial interests of Directors, serving at the end of the period, were: Ordinary Ordinary shares of shares of 2 pence each 2 pence each 2 December 27 November Director 2012 2011 Tim Steiner 14,396,400 14,396,400 Jason Gissing 9,657,600 9,657,600 Robert Gorrie 690,660 627,900 Neill Abrams 520,204 360,600 Lord Grade 362,021 329,110 Douglas McCallum 63,000 Duncan Tatton-Brown 60,000 Ruth Anderson 55,000 50,000 Wendy Becker 50,568 David Grigson 15,000 15,000 During the period, there was an increase in Neill Abrams There have been no changes in the Directors interests in shareholdings and decrease in his holding of options under the the shares issued or options granted by the Company and its ESOS due to two exercises of optionsin early February 2012. subsidiaries between the end of the period and the date of this Neill exercised 175,000 options at an exercise price of 100.00 annual report.
pence per ordinary share and subsequently sold some of the resulting ordinary shares to fund the cost of exercising.
This No Director had an interest in any of the Companys subsidiaries resulted in him holding 3,354 additional ordinary shares in the at the beginning or end of the period.
Company after the period end.
For 90,000 options, 87,022 ordinary shares were sold at a market price of 107.00 pence In addition to the above holdings, certain of the Directors are per ordinary share.
For 85,000 options, 84,624 ordinary shares discretionary beneciaries under trusts holding ordinary shares were sold at a market price of 101.65 pence per ordinary share.
The interests of these discretionary beneciaries under their respective trusts are as follows: Sir Stuart Rose, Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate, had prior to joining the Board acquired 750,000 of the Companys ordinary shares on his own account.
Ordinary Ordinary shares of shares of 2 pence each 2 pence each 2 December 27 November Director 2012 2011 Neill Abrams 1,100,800 1,100,800 Jrn Rausing 69,015,602 62,740,777 Jason Gissing 9,391,442 7,659,300 Tim Steiner 14,291,200 13,291,200 In addition to the above holdings, Caryn Abrams wife of Neill Abrams holds 75,000 ordinary shares, and is a discretionary beneciary of a trust holding 133,100 2011: 133,100 ordinary shares of the Company.
Kate Tatton-Brown wife of Duncan TattonBrown holds 50,000 ordinary shares.
Participation in the Placing: During the period, the Company raised new equity of 35.8 million through the Placing.
Further details of the Placing are in the Directors report at page 68.
The Directors participation either directly or via a trust of which they are a beneciary in the Placing is set out in the table below.
Number of new Director ordinary shares Jrn Rausing 6,274,825 Jason Gissing 1,732,142 Tim Steiner 1,000,000 Neill Abrams 156,250 Robert Gorrie 62,760 Michael Grade 32,911 Duncan Tatton-Brown 10,000 Ruth Anderson 5,000 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Stock code: OCDO www.
com 61 similar senior executive roles in companies of a similar size and Non-employee share options complexity to the Company.
The comparative data indicated that In addition to the options granted under the ESOS, outlined the Companys maximum percentage bonus potential was below above, Ocado had granted to certain non-employees options to the lower quartile of its comparator group.
In light of this and subscribe for either ordinary shares or convertible preference unchanged base pay in 2012, the Remuneration Committee felt shares in Ocado Limited and following the reorganisation that that increasing the maximum bonus potential for the Executive resulted in the Company becoming the holding company of the Directors was appropriate in order to maintain focus on one of Group, in the Company.
Options over shares in Ocado Limited the Companys strategic objectives of increasing the Groups were granted to Andrew Bracey in 2002 and 2004 before he rate of sales growth.
Following the reorganisation that resulted in the Company becoming the holding company of the The mix of performance targets has been changed from Group, such options are now options over ordinary shares in the 2012.
The 2013 Annual Incentive Plan will be based on Company.
performance targets set out below, including 20%, which will relate to performance measured against role specic objectives.
Performance review Given that CFC2 has commenced operations, the strategic The following graph shows the total shareholder return TSR performance target concerning CFC2 used in the 2012 Annual performance of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares Incentive Plan no longer remained relevant to 2013.
Each target from its Admission on 26 July 2010 to the end of the period is discrete and can be earned separately.
compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 Index which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market 20% Key index of which the Company is a constituent.
The TSR was Group gross sales calculated by reference to the movements in share price.
The 40% Group EBITDA Company has not paid a dividend since its Admission so the Personal objectives Companys TSR does not include a dividend amount.
180 160 40% 140 120 The Remuneration Committee considers that the balance 100 of targets provides an appropriate focus on annual financial performance objectives of driving sales growth and improved 80 EBITDA while ensuring that the senior executives deliver other 60 business objectives in connection with growing the business.
40 The introduction of role specic objectives is intended to ensure that the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan reects the remuneration 20 principles for Executive Directors which is that the plan provides 0 a direct link between Company and role specic performance and reward.
The financial performance targets have again been set on the Key basis of the Companys budget for the 2012 2013 financial year.
For the maximum payment level to be achieved the Company FTSE 250 Ocado Group plc must signicantly outperform its budgeted sales growth and EBITDA for the 2012 2013 financial year.
A threshold payment level has been set at an acceptable point of Company financial performance.
Below such point no bonus will be earned.
Remuneration policy for 2013 The following sets out the key proposed changes to the The individual objectives applicable for the Annual Incentive Companys remuneration policy and arrangements for the Plan are linked to the Executive Directors role and or his 2012 2013 financial year.
business area s and are in line with the Groups strategy.
The objectives are agreed between the Executive Director and the Chief Executive officer or in the case of the Chief Executive 2013 Annual Incentive Plan officer, between him and the Chairman.
Achievement of Following the period end, the Remuneration Committee the objectives will be determined by the Chief Executive approved the implementation of an Annual Incentive Plan for officer or in the case of the Chief Executive officer, by the the Executive Directors applicable to the 2012 2013 financial Chairman.
The Chief Executive Ofcers and the Chairmans year.
This plan broadly reects the framework of the 2012 recommendations will be reported to the Remuneration Annual Incentive Plan.
The Remuneration Committee, taking into account the recommendations received, has discretion to determine The maximum bonus levels payable under the 2013 Annual the percentage payable, up to 20%, in respect of the individual Incentive Plan have been increased from 2012.
is 100% of base salary increased from 80% for the Executive Directors and 125% increased from 100% for the Chief Executive officer.
The Remuneration Committee made this decision following its annual review of the Annual Incentive Plan.
The decision took into account externally sourced benchmark data for a comparator group of listed company executives that compared the Executive Director roles with 07 2010 09 2010 11 2010 01 2011 03 2011 05 2011 07 2011 09 2011 11 2011 01 2012 03 2012 05 2012 07 2012 09 2012 11 2012 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 62 Directors remuneration report continued Long-Term Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee is seeking to bring the overall structure of the Executive Directors remuneration into line with the market for listed company executives.
The Directors are proposing the adoption of new long-term incentive plans the LTIP.
The LTIP is intended to take the place of the existing JSOS as the primary link between executive reward and the longer-term performance and objectives of the Company.
While only infrequent awards have been made under the JSOS, the LTIP will enable regular annual share awards to be made for the first time.
The Remuneration Committee considered that the addition of an LTIP will help to ensure the alignment of the executives and shareholders interests, and will attract and retain candidates of the right calibre.
The Remuneration Committee intends to consult shareholders on the LTIP proposals.
Following which, the LTIP will be put to shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM on 10 May 2013.
Further details of the principal terms of the proposed LTIP are set out in the appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Director contracts The Remuneration Committee does not anticipate that the Companys existing policy, as described above, with respect to Director contracts, notice periods and termination payments will change in the 2012 2013 financial year or subsequent years.
Chairman Remuneration Sir Stuart Rose was appointed effective 11 March 2013 as an Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate.
Sir Stuart will become Chairman after the Companys AGM.
The following sets out the proposed remuneration arrangements for Sir Stuart Rose.
Base salary In order to attract and retain Sir Stuart for the position, the Remuneration Committee approved the following base salary structure: 40,000 per annum for the period from appointment date to the date of becoming Chairman: and 200,000 per annum thereafter.
Such fee will not be reviewed by the Board for a minimum of three years from the Companys AGM.
Share award In addition to the base salary as described above, the Remuneration Committee considered that the remuneration package for Sir Stuart Rose should include a one-off award of up to 400,000 of ordinary shares in the Company based on market value as at the date of announcement of the appointment once he assumes the role of Chairman, to match Sir Stuarts acquisition of shares in the Company.
The issue of Company shares to Sir Stuart will require shareholder approval at the Companys AGM on 10 May 2013.
The Company proposes to issue 452,284 ordinary shares in the Company to Sir Stuart Matching Shares to match 400,000 of ordinary shares in the Company.
Sir Stuart had prior to joining the Board already acquired 750,000 of the Companys ordinary shares on his own account.
These shares are referred to as Acquired Shares.
Sir Stuart Rose will pay the nominal value, that is, 9,046, for the Matching Shares, and these shares will be held by Appleby Trust Jersey Limited.
The Matching Shares will not vest until three years after the date of commencement as Chairman, and will only vest subject to Sir Stuarts continued membership of the Board.
Sir Stuart will be restricted from selling any shares while on the Board, and in accordance with paragraph D. 1.3 of the 2010 Code, he shall not sell any of the Matching Shares until the first anniversary of his ceasing to be a member of the Board.
In determining the remuneration for Sir Stuart Rose once he takes over from Lord Grade as Chairman of the Company, the Remuneration Committee considered, exceptionally, that it would be appropriate for Sir Stuart to receive his remuneration in both cash and one-off award of the Companys shares.
The Remuneration Committee believes that splitting Sir Stuarts remuneration in this way would best align his interests with those of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that this would compromise his independence.
It was key to this decision that i no shares would be awarded to Sir Stuart unless he had acquired at least an equal number of shares at market value: ii that any share award would not vest until Sir Stuart had served as Chairman for three years: and iii even then, that Sir Stuart would not be entitled to sell any shares awarded to him until a year after he eventually leaves the Board.
Implementing the award is subject to the shareholder approval as set out in the Notice of AGM.
Vesting and forfeiture Although Sir Stuart holds the Acquired Shares in his own name, the Matching Shares will be issued to and held by a nominee.
On vesting, the nominee will transfer the Matching Shares to Sir Stuart.
Ordinarily, vesting will take place on the third anniversary of Sir Stuart becoming Chairman of the Board, that is 10 May 2016, provided that, on that date, he remains a Director of the Company.
There are no performance criteria to which vesting is subject.
If Sir Stuart leaves the Board prior to 10 May 2016 as a result of his death, illness, injury or disability, or in other circumstances which the Board decides appropriate, a number of Matching Shares will be transferred to Sir Stuart pro rata to the time he has spent as Chairman.
Similarly, a pro rata number of Matching Shares or such greater number as the Board may determine will vest should the Company be taken over during the three year period.
