Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 12 The market opportunity The underlying grocery market in the UK is substantial, while shopping online for weekly groceries is becoming increasingly important for consumers, evidenced by the online growth gures reported across the industry.
With our clear focus as the UKs sole online only operator in this market, we are well placed to benefit from this growing market trend.
Grocery is the largest by far of all retail segments, estimated Growth in grocery has traditionally been driven by the opening by IGD to be 163 billion in the UK alone in 2012, and of new store space, either through extension of existing stores representing over half of all retail spending.
Over 65% came or the opening of new shops.
This has created a space race through so called big box format stores supermarkets, model for growth which is dependent on increasing expensive superstores and hypermarkets, with the remainder from real estate and growing customer footfall.
discounters, convenience stores and other smaller traditional There is no single strategy for online retailing.
In the grocery retailers grocers, newsagents, forecourts, and online.
sector, different approaches are being adopted, with traditional Various market estimates suggest that c4-5% of grocery operators largely using existing store-based fullment with spending was ordered online in 2012, with online widely some starting to adopt so called dark stores small manual recognised as the industrys fastest growing segment.
All leading warehouses with a turnover similar to a typical supermarket grocery retailers are developing their online strategies, and IGD store dedicated only to servicing online orders with no direct estimates that the five year CAGR in online grocery will be nearly physical customers.
By contrast, Ocado uses only a centralised 15% through to 2017. picking model in a warehouse, over 20 times larger than a store, which enables us to remove significant costs from the traditional grocery supply chain.
Segmentation in UK grocery market showing growing online trend SUPERMARKETS, CONVENIENCE SUPERSTORES & HYPERMARKETS DISCOUNTERS ONLINE THE MARKET OPPORTUNITY TRADITIONAL RETAIL
