Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 32 The Board Lord Grade of Yarmouth Tim Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Lord Grade joined the Board as Chairman in Tim is a founding Director.
He has responsibility Duncan joined the Board in September 2012.
He has had a long and distinguished for keeping a general oversight of the business Prior to Ocado, Duncan was Chief Financial career in broadcasting, encompassing ITV, and strategy.
Prior to Ocado, Tim spent eight officer of Fitness First plc and previously was BBC and over nine years as Chief Executive years as a banker at Goldman Sachs.
During his Group Finance Director of Kingsher plc, one of of Channel 4 Television.
He is currently time there, he was based in London, Hong Kong the worlds largest home improvement retailers.
the Chairman of Pinewood Shepperton plc.
and New York in the Fixed Income division.
He has also been Finance Director of B&Q plc, Additionally, Lord Grade is a Non-Executive Tim graduated from Manchester University with Chief Financial officer of Virgin Entertainment Director at WRG Worldwide Limited.
In an honours degree in economics, finance and Group and previously held various senior November 2010 a Peerage of the United accountancy in 1992. finance positions at Burton Group plc.
He is Kingdom for Life was conferred upon Michael.
currently a Non-Executive Director and Audit He was appointed a member of the Press Committee chairman of Rentokil Initial plc.
He Complaints Commission Limited in April 2011. has a masters degree in engineering from Kings College, Cambridge and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
David Grigson Ruth Anderson Douglas McCallum Non-Executive Director and Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director Ruth joined the Board in March 2010.
Until Douglas McCallum joined the Board in October April 2009 she was a Vice-Chairman of KPMG in 2011.
Doug has been a pioneer of the internet David joined the Board in March 2010.
She joined KPMG in 1976 and became industry for 18 years: for the last eleven years has held a number of posts, including Chief a partner in 1989.
She has worked extensively at eBay where he led the UK business and then Financial officer at Reuters Group PLC, Group as an adviser with UK and international turned around the pan-European business.
Prior Finance Director at Emap PLC, Chairman businesses.
Ruth is a Non-Executive Director to eBay he was founder and general manager of EMAP Digital Limited and Non-Executive of Travis Perkins plc and The Royal Parks, an of a number of businesses in the internet, Director of Carphone Warehouse PLC.
He is executive agency of the Department of Culture, broadcasting, software and hardware industries.
currently a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Media and Sport.
Ruth is a fellow of the Douglas read politics, philosophy and economics of the Audit Committee at Standard Life PLC Institute of Chartered Accountants of England at the University of Oxford, and has an MBA and holds the position of Chairman at Trinity and Wales and a member of the Chartered from Harvard Business School.
Mirror plc and Creston PLC.
David is a member Institute of Taxation.
Ruth graduated from of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bradford University with an honours degree in England and Wales and studied Economics at French and Spanish.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee THE BOARD Stock code: OCDO www.
com 33 Jason Gissing Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Commercial Director Operations Director Legal and Business Affairs Director Jason is a founding Director.
He has Board Mark joined the Board in 2012, having been Neill has been a Director since 2000, having responsibility for Ocados retail activities, Ocados Head of Technology since 2001.
He previously advised Ocado since its founding.
including buyer, supplier and customer is responsible for the day to day running of He is responsible for Ocados business support, relationships, marketing and brand development.
the Ocado operation, including the Customer including legal, insurance, risk management, In addition, Jason leads Ocados green Fullment Centres, logistics developments, and human resources divisions.
Prior to Ocado, Jason spent eight business planning, engineering and IT.
Prior to Neill was a barrister in practice at One Essex years as a banker at Goldman Sachs.
He Ocado, Mark was at the John Lewis Partnership, Court and an Executive Director and Counsel graduated from Worcester College, Oxford with where he held a number of IT positions, at Goldman Sachs in London.
Neill graduated an honours degree in jurisprudence.
including Head of Selling Systems at Waitrose.
from Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge with a Mark graduated from University College London masters degree in law in 1989, having previously with a physics degree.
obtained BA and LLB degrees from the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
He is also admitted as a member of the New York Bar and as a South African Advocate.
Alex Mahon Jrn Rausing Robert Gorrie Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Alex joined the Board in June 2012.
She is Jrn joined the Board in 2003.
He is Tetra Laval Robert joined the Board in 2000, as the the Chief Executive officer of Shine Group and Groups Head of Mergers and Acquisitions.
In 2006 he became a Nona Non-Executive Director of the Edinburgh TV has been a Non-Executive Member of the Tetra Executive Director.
Prior to Ocado, he was Group Festival.
Alex has previously held the positions Laval Group board since 1991 and is also a Director of Information Technology at Transport of Chief Operating officer at talkbackTHAMES Member of the boards of Alfa Laval AB and Development Group PLC where he spent ten and Director of Commercial Development DeLaval Holdings AB.
He holds a degree in years in a variety of commercial and operational and Strategy at FremantleMedia.
Alex has a business administration from Lund University, roles.
Prior to that he spent ten years in North physics PhD and was a Medical Physicist before Sweden.
America with the logistics service business becoming a management consultant and then Christian Salvesen PLC, where he reached the launching internet based retail businesses.
position of Director of Business Development.
Robert graduated from Corpus Christi College, Oxford with an honours degree in modern history and economics.
Sir Stuart Rose Non-Executive Chairman Designate Sir Stuart Rose joined the Board as Chairman Designate on 11 March 2013.
Sir Stuart Rose has worked in retail for over 40 years.
He has held Chief Executive officer positions at Argos plc, Booker plc, Arcadia Group plc and Marks and Spencer plc.
He was Chairman of Marks and Spencer plc from 2008 to 2011.
Stuart is currently a non-executive director at Land Securities Group and Woolworths Holdings Limited a South Africa listed international retail group.
He also currently chairs Blue Inc and Dressipi, and became Chairman Designate at Fat Face Group Limited in March 2013.
Sir Stuart was knighted in 2008 for services to the retail industry and corporate social responsibility.
THE BOARD INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
