Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 68 Directors report represented an amount approximately equal to the net proceeds Principal activities of the Placing.
Ocado Group plc is the holding company of the Ocado group of subsidiary companies the Group.
The principal activities of The Placing shares were credited as fully paid and ranked the Group are the retailing, logistics and distribution of grocery pari passu in all respects with the existing issued ordinary and consumer goods and the development and monetisation shares of 2 pence per share in the capital of the Company, of intellectual property and technology for the online retailing, including the right to receive all dividends and other logistics and distribution of these goods.
distributions declared, made or paid in respect of such ordinary shares after the date of issue of the Placing shares.
Share capital The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital Voting rights as at 2 December 2012 comprised a single class of ordinary Each ordinary share carries one right to vote at a general meeting of shares of 2 pence each.
As at the the latest practicable date the Company.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote prior to publication of this report, the Companys issued share of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is capital consisted of 614,660,938 issued ordinary shares.
On a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have Placing of shares: The Company raised additional equity capital one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by of 35.8 million on 19 November 2012 the Placing through proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
the issue of 55,875,557 ordinary shares in the Company The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not at a price of 64 pence per share.
The Placing represented than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding approximately 9.99% of the Companys then existing issued of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
The Placing price represented a premium of 5.7% to the closing middle market price of 60.55 pence per ordinary JSOS voting rights: Of the issued ordinary shares, 36,305,099 share on 16 November 2012, being the latest trading date prior are held by Greenwood Nominees Limited on behalf of Appleby to the announcement of the Placing.
Trust Jersey Limited, the independent company which is the trustee of Ocados employee benefit trust the EBT Trustee.
As part of the Placing, the Company agreed to place: The EBT Trustee has waived its right to exercise its voting rights and to receive dividends in respect of these 36,305,099 8,381,334 new ordinary shares with direct and indirect subsidiaries of FIL Limited, a substantial shareholder of the ordinary shares, although it may vote in respect of 16,779,416 ordinary shares which have vested under the joint share Company: ownership scheme and remain in the trust at period end, at the 6,503,317 new ordinary shares with direct and indirect request of a participant.
The total of 36,305,099 ordinary shares subsidiaries of The London and Amsterdam Trust Company held by the EBT Trustee are treated as treasury shares in the Limited, a substantial shareholder of the Company: groups consolidated balance sheet in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
As such, calculations of 6,274,825 new ordinary shares with Hamilton Trust Company earnings per share for Ocado exclude the 36,305,099 ordinary Limited as trustee for Apple II Trust of which Jrn Rausing, shares held by the EBT Trustee.
However, the Company a Director of the Company, is a beneciary, a substantial does not hold any shares in treasury.
1 a to the shareholder of the Company: consolidated financial statements provides more information on 1,732,142 new ordinary shares with Trident Trust Co BVI the Groups accounting treatment of treasury shares.
Limited as trustee of The Jason Gissing Life Settlement II of which Jason Gissing, a Director of the Company, is a Restrictions on transfer of securities beneciary : and The Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set out 1,000,000 new ordinary shares with Arthur Seligman as trustee below.
of the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust of which Tim Steiner, a Director of the Company, is a beneciary.
The Company may, under the Companies Act, send out statutory notices to those it knows or has reasonable cause Each of the persons above is a related party of the Company for to believe have an interest in its shares, asking for details of the purposes of the Listing Rules.
those who have an interest and the extent of their interest in a particular holding of shares.
When a person receives a statutory In addition, an aggregate of 266,921 new ordinary shares notice and fails to provide any information required by the were placed with Neill Abrams, Robert Gorrie, Michael Grade, notice within the time specified in it, the Company can apply to Duncan Tatton-Brown and Ruth Anderson, all of whom are the court for an order directing, among other things, that any Directors of the Company.
transfer of shares which are the subject of the statutory notice is void.
No commissions were paid by the Company to placees in respect of the Placing.
Further details of the Placing are at The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until Note 4.6.
1 of the consolidated financial statements.
the transferees name is entered in the register.
The Board can decline to register any transfer of any share which is not The issue of the Placing shares was effected by way of a fully paid share.
The Company does not currently have any a cashbox placing.
The Company alloted and issued the partially paid shares.
The Board may also decline to register a Placing shares on a non-pre-emptive basis to the placees in transfer of a certicated share unless the instrument of transfer consideration for Goldman Sachs International transferring its in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may holdings of ordinary shares and redeemable preference shares approve : A is duly stamped or certied or otherwise shown in Weir Developments Limited to the Company.
Accordingly, to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp instead of receiving cash as consideration for the issue of duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certicate or Placing shares, at the conclusion of the Placing the Company such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may owned the entire issued share capital of Weir Developments reasonably require: B is in respect of only one class of share: Limited whose only asset was its cash reserves, which DIRECTORS REPORT Stock code: OCDO www.
com 69 and C if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four Powers for the Company issuing or buying such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncerticated back its shares share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the The Company was authorised by shareholders on 23 May 2012, uncerticated securities rules as dened in the Articles and at the annual general meeting, to purchase in the market up where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number to 10% of its issued ordinary shares excluding any treasury of joint holders to whom the uncerticated share is to be shares.
No shares have been bought back under this authority transferred exceeds four.
This standard authority is renewable annually: the Directors will seek to renew this authority at the AGM.
JSOS: Participants interests under the JSOS are generally non-transferable during the period beginning on acquisition of The Directors were granted authority at the previous annual the interest and ending at the expiry of the relevant restricted general meeting to allot shares in the Company.
That authority period as set out in the JSOS rules.
However, interests can be will apply until the conclusion of the AGM.
At the AGM, transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot shares a participant: a trust under which no person other than the in the Company A up to one-third of the issued share capital, participant or their spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant and B comprising equity securities up to two-thirds of the has a vested beneficial interest or any other person approved by issued share capital but after deducting any allotments or grants the EBT Trustee.
If a participant purports to transfer, assign or made under A above in connection with an offer by way of a charge his interest other than as set out above, the EBT Trustee rights issue, such authorities to apply until the end of the next may acquire the participants interest for a total price of 1.
AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 10 August 2014.
Other than as described above, the Company is not aware of any agreements existing at the end of the period between A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the powers to disapply pre-emption rights in connection with the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting allotment of equity securities for cash and otherwise up to 5% of rights.
Significant shareholders During the period up to 2 December 2012, the Company has received notications, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below: Number of Percentage of ordinary issued share Nature of shares capital holding Lansdowne Partners 35,144,035 5.72 Indirect The Nomad Investment Partnership L. P. 39,573,655 7.08 Not stated FIL Limited 56,085,345 10.03 Indirect UBS Investment Bank Below 3% Below 3% Direct & Indirect Manning and Napier Advisors LLC Below 5% Below 5% Direct These gures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notication to the Company.
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between 3 December 2012 and 11 March 2013, except as set out in the table below: Number of Percentage of ordinary issued share Nature of shares capital holding Credit Suisse Group AG Below 3% Below 3% Indirect Appointment and replacement of Directors Significant related party agreements The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by Apart from the Placing noted above, there were no contracts the Articles, the 2010 Code, the Companies Act and related of signicance during the period between any Group company legislation.
A Director may be appointed by the Company by and either 1 a Director of the Company or 2 a controlling ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Board.
Under shareholder of the Company.
the Articles, at every annual general meeting of the Company, each Director shall retire from ofce and may offer himself for Change of control reappointment by the members.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce Amendment of the Articles or employment resulting from a takeover except that it should The Companys Articles may be amended by a special be noted that: i provisions of the Companys share schemes resolution of its shareholders.
may cause options and shares granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover: and ii certain members of senior management not including the Directors who were employed prior to 2010 are entitled to a payment contingent on DIRECTORS REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 70 Directors report continued a change of control of the Company or merger of the Company Research and development and future developments irrespective of loss of employment as set out in his or her The Group has dedicated in-house software, logistics and respective employment contract.
engineering design and development teams with primary focus on IT and improvements to the CFCs and the material handling There are a number of important agreements to which the equipment.
Costs relating to the development of computer Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a software are capitalised if they relate to internal capital projects.
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details these agreements are as follows: The Groups likely future developments including its strategy are described in the Strategy section on pages 10 to 19.
Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose: If the Sourcing Agreement were to end or if Waitrose were unable to source products for Going concern the Group, Ocado would need to nd or create replacement In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial own-label products and nd appropriate suppliers.
More statements, the Directors have made appropriate enquiries information on Waitrose can be found at and have considered the Groups cash ows, liquidity position www.
and borrowing facilities and business activities as set out on page 68 and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as If certain competitors of Waitrose or John Lewis acquire 50% set on pages 43 to 44.
Based on the Groups rolling forecasts, or more of the shares or control of the Companys Board, the Directors are satisfied that the Company, and the Group as the parties may terminate the Sourcing Agreement.
In these a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational circumstances, Ocado is obliged to pay Waitrose the lower of existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial 40 million and 4% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in This change of control provision will cease to bind the parties accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity risk: Guidance for if, prior to the change of control, any party has already given a Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial valid notice of termination.
Reporting Council in October 2009. Credit facility agreement: The Groups 100 million credit The principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 43 to facility with Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and Lloyds TSB 44 describes the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Bank plc may be terminated in certain circumstances, including Group including those that may have an adverse impact on through an event of default or if the Group were to breach one the Groups operations, performance or future prospects and or more of the covenants under this facility.
Details concerning the going concern basis noted above.
The Groups cash ows, each of the lenders under the facility can be found on, in the liquidity position and borrowing facilities and business activities case of Barclays Bank, its website http: group.
com, are described on page 68 and set out in the Groups financial in the case of HSBC Bank, its website www.
com and in statements on pages 75 to 111.
Further information on going the case of Lloyds TSB Bank, its website www.
concern is set out in Section 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 80.
HSBC Equipment Finance Limited: On 22 July 2004 Ocado as lessee and HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited as The Companys going concern statement has been reviewed by lessor entered into a master sale and leaseback agreement.
At period end, 12 sale and leaseback agreements remained with total amounts outstanding of 9.4 million covering the Financing arrangements majority of the conveyor systems and associated capital goods that have been added to CFC1 since August 2004.
Pursuant Borrowings and covenants: The most material of the Groups to side letters between Ocado and HSBC varying the original borrowing facilities is its 100 million credit facility with Barclays agreement, HSBC is able to terminate the master agreement if Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
During the there is a change of control of the Company or if the Sourcing period, the Group agreed with the banks to extend the maturity Agreement is terminated for any reason.
of the facility agreement for a further 18 months to 6 July 2015.
The extended facility comprises a term facility of 90 million Creditor payment policy and a working capital revolving credit facility of 10 million.
It is Group policy to agree, either directly or via an agent, terms The facility contains customary covenant provisions in respect of and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
net debt, gross debt and interest cover.
The financial covenants The Company is a holding company and has an insignicant are as follows: number of trade creditors.
Under the Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose, Waitrose negotiates terms and conditions with Net debt ratio the net debt financial covenant requires that suppliers of grocery products on behalf of both itself and Ocado the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA must not exceed 3.5:1 Limited, the Groups main trading entity.
Ocado Limited also for the test periods falling in the financial years ending in 2012 negotiates payment terms for its suppliers.
This ratio gradually reduces to 2.25:1 during the follow any code or standard on payment practice in the period.
The average trade payables time period for resale goods for Ocado Limited for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 was Interest cover ratio the interest cover financial covenant requires 27 days 2011: 26 days, based on the ratio of its average trade that the ratio of EBITDA to net interest at the end of each quarter payables for resale goods to the amounts invoiced during the period be not less than 4:1 for the test periods falling in the period by those trade payables.
financial years ending 2012 and 2013, gradually increasing to 5:1 during the subsequent 18 month extension period.
Gross debt ratio the gross debt financial covenant requires that the ratio of gross debt to adjusted EBITDA must not exceed 5.5:1 for any test period in respect of which EBITDA is less than 35 million.
EBITDA in respect of a test period refers to EBITDA for the relevant prior 12 month period.
DIRECTORS REPORT Stock code: OCDO www.
com 71 For any financial year, in which the net debt: EBITDA ratio Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act exceeds 2.5:1 there is a cap on capital expenditure which is set and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the above the Companys current expectations over the extended IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the term of the facility agreement.
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud All covenant tests which exist under the terms of the facility are and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the tested quarterly.
maintenance and integrity of the Groups corporate website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation The table below outlines the relevant covenant tests and the and dissemination of financial statements may differ from actual position of the Group at the end of the period: legislation in other jurisdictions.
Covenant Actual Each of the Directors, who held ofce at the date of the approval Net debt EBITDA 3.5:1 1.72:1 of this annual report, confirms, to the best of their knowledge that: Fixed interest cover 4:1 5.12:1 Gross debt EBITDA 5.5:1 4.34:1 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Disclosure of information to auditors fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and In accordance with the Companies Act, each Director who loss of the Group: and held ofce at the date of the approval of this Directors report the Directors report includes a fair review of the development confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant and performance of the business and the position of the audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, Group, together with a description of the principal risks and and that each Director has taken all of the steps that they ought uncertainties that it faces.
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Forward-looking statements Certain statements made in this report are forward-looking Independent auditors statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations The Companys auditors,  LLP, and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and have indicated their willingness to continue their role as the uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to Companys auditors.
Resolutions concerning the reappointment differ materially from any expected future events or results of  LLP as auditors of the Company and expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will They appear in a number of places throughout this report and be proposed at the AGM and set out in the Notice of Meeting.
include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, amongst other Statement of Directors responsibilities things, the Groups results of operations, financial condition, The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business.
the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements Persons receiving this report should not place undue reliance in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, Ocado Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements does not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared statements, whether as a result of new information, future the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance developments or otherwise.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied Approved by the Board that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the result of the Company and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Neill Abrams select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Company Secretary and Legal and Business Affairs Director consistently: 13 March 2013 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Ocado Group plc state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Registered in England and Wales no.
07098618 Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the DIRECTORS REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
