GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE HSE COMMITTEE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE HSE COMMITTEE REPORT OF THE HSE COMMITTEE The role of the Committee is to ensure that appropriate Dear Shareholder policies and systems are developed and implemented in order to identify and manage health, safety, social, security and environmental matters within all Group operations.
Full terms of reference for the Committee Ophirs enhanced seismic and drilling programme for 2012 has been a major focus of the Committees are available on the Companys website but, in summary, schedule during the year.
Maritime security issues its main responsibilities include to: were key components of the drilling campaigns in evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups policies and both East and West Africa and will continue to be at 02 systems for identifying and managing health, safety, the forefront of the Committees considerations as social, security and environmental risks within the the Group explorations expand.
Groups operations and assess the performance of the During the year, the Committee reviewed and Group with regard to the impact of its HSE decisions: approved several key policies and ensured that receive, on behalf of the Board, reports from appropriate training was provided to all stakeholders, management concerning all fatalities and serious including contractors.
In July, Ian Borthwick, an HSE accidents within the Group and actions taken by consultant and advisor to the Company, provided the management as a result: Board with HSE training and engaged all Perth-based review external stakeholder reporting concerning employees in HSE requirements.
He also mentored health, safety, security, social and environmental Ophirs Crisis Management Team in the procedures performance and issues: and for managing a crisis.
review the results of independent audits of the Groups There have been no fatalities or significant HSE performance in regard to health, safety, social, security incidents during the year.
Although there has been or environmental matters, and to review any strategies excellent HSE performance in 2012, the Committees and action plans developed by management in main focus will continue to be the oversight of the response to issues raised.
Groups safety performance, and to this end the HSE COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Committee encourages all stakeholders to continue The focus for the Committee during the year ended their diligence and commitment to the Groups HSE 31 December 2012 has been marititme security for the policies and practices.
Groups drilling campaigns in East and West Africa.
LYNDON POWELL While there has been a significant reduction in piracy HSE Committee Chairman activity overall, the Committee ensured that appropriate maritime security plans were developed and implemented, including the modus operandi for the use MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE of armed personnel, during drilling off Tanzania and The members of the Committee, the majority of whom Equatorial Guinea in 2012 and for the drilling campaigns are independent non-executive directors, together scheduled for 2013. with details of their individual attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2012, are set The Committee reviewed the policies on health, safety out below: and environment and corporate social responsibilities during the year which, following Board approval, have Meeting been disseminated through the Group.
The Committee Committee Members attendance also received information on other policies being Lyndon Powell Committee Chairman 3 3 implemented by the Company.
John Lander 3 3 During the year, the Committee also considered: Patrick Spink to 6 August 2012 2 2 HSE key performance indicators: Jonathan Taylor 2 3 crisis management plans: HSE training for the Board, all employees Jonathan Taylor was unable to attend one meeting and contractors: during the year due to being overseas on business for appropriateness of undertaking HSE audits of joint the Company.
venture partners: The Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer reports on health, safety and environmental incidents have an open invitation to attend all Committee within the Group, including a particular focus on lost meetings.
In addition, the Group HSE Manager is invited time injuries and the results of any investigations: to attend each meeting to present his report to the HSE and CSR external communications: and Committee.
Other senior members of staff and external advisors may be invited to attend as necessary.
approval of the 2013 HSE budget for submission to the Board.
