BUSINESS REVIEW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LOST TIME INCIDENT FREQUENCY LTIF STAFF TURNOVER 2012 staff turnover was Ophir Energy Group LTIF Includes London, Perth and Senior Expat Staff 8.6% Period 2012 2011 Average Number 57 41 of Employees Total Man Hours Worked 99,561 72,747 LTIs 0 0 Classication The rate of turnover relates to employees who LTIF Rate 0 0 have left the Company voluntarily during the year.
The gure excludes employees who left as a direct Strategy result of redundancy or dismissal on the grounds The health, safety and welfare of people working for of poor performance.
and on behalf of our business underpins everything we do.
Our health and safety culture is based on Business Impact individual responsibility and commitment from the Turnover rates have been steady across the Group.
very top of the organisation.
They have, however, remained within manageable levels and have not had a negative impact upon our technical Accountability rests within each and every employee disciplines.
New hires to replace leavers have been less including our shareholders and senior executives, who easy to source particularly within support functions.
uphold their obligations through a resolute commitment that includes the active management of our health and Outlook safety agenda.
The Company aims to monitor and reduce turnover rates and will continue to provide highly competitive Performance pay and benets to attract and retain key personnel.
With safety our number one priority, and in a year when we drilled eight wells with 100% success, we are proud there were no lost time accidents.
Staying safe requires vigilance, effort and investment at all levels of the organisation and is testament to the quality and professionalism of our team.
COM 18 BUSINESS REVIEW 01 RESOURCES mmboe FINDING COST M 2012 Finding Cost 2011 1,882 2,092 2012 1,002 2,725 3,727 $0.58 boe Mean contingent Risked prospective Our net working interest resources have been The basis of the nding cost calculation is signicantly increased during 2012 by successful straightforward all expenditure other than acquisition drilling campaigns in Tanzania and Equatorial Guinea.
costs which will return benefit over several years is In addition to the drilling campaigns, ten seismic divided by Contingent Resources discovered in the year.
surveys were carried out which have already indicated It is, however, an onerous denition as all seismic, G & G excellent prospectivity.
We are confident that this and overhead expenditure is included even though this provides a sound basis for continuing resource will probably not lead to reserve additions in the year growth in 2013 and future years.
We, as a purely exploration company, nevertheless believe that this is the truest measure of The chart shows the Groups net resources at the Groups efficiency over time.
31 December 2011 and at 31 December 2012, assuming that Governments exercise their back-in right in every case.
