GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT RESULTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 DIVIDEND POLICY The Companys results for the financial year are The Directors have not recommended a final dividend shown in the consolidated financial statements on for the year ended 31 December 2012 and did not pages 78 to 81. declare any interim dividends during the year.
The Directors do not anticipate that the Company will pay PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW dividends in the near future.
The Directors envisage Ophir is a FTSE 250 independent oil and gas exploration that, as the Company advances the development of its business with a focus on Africa.
Ophir Energy plc, operations, a dividend policy will be determined based the parent company of the Group, is incorporated in on, and dependent on, the results of the Companys England and Wales with headquarters in London and operations, financial condition, cash requirements, operational offices in Perth Australia, Dar es Salaam prospects, profits available for distribution and other and Mtwara Tanzania, Malabo Equatorial Guinea, factors deemed to be relevant at the time.
Port Gentil Gabon, Brazzaville Congo, Nairobi Kenya and Accra Ghana.
SHARE CAPITAL The called-up share capital of the Company, together Since its foundation in 2004, the Company has acquired with details of shares allotted during the year, is shown an extensive portfolio of oil and gas interests and its in note 13 to the Company financial statements.
current portfolio comprises 20 licences in 10 countries TheCompany does not hold any shares in treasury.
The majority of these interests lie offshore in water depths greater than 250m and are thus classied At the 2012 AGM, the Company was authorised by as deepwater.
Through its drilling campaigns to date, shareholders to repurchase 39.75 million of its own the Company has made a total of 11 gas discoveries: ordinary shares, representing just under 10% of its sixin Tanzania and five in Equatorial Guinea.
issued share capital as at the date of the AGM.
Nobuyback programme has been undertaken to Through this Annual Report, including the Chairmans date.
While the Board does not currently intend to and Chief Executive Officers joint review and the exercise the authority, it will seek a further renewal at the business review sections pages 6 to 39 and the 2013 AGM and will keep the use of the authority under corporate governance and remuneration reports which review, taking into account other investment follow on pages 48 to 72, the Board seeks to present opportunities.
abalanced and clear assessment of the Companys activities, position and prospects.
Each of these sections SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
As at 31 December 2012 and 4 March 2013 being the date of this report, the Company was notied of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: No.
COM 44 GOVERNANCE Dividends: The Company may, by ordinary resolution, SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS declare final dividends to be paid to its shareholders.
The following section summarises the rights and However, no dividend shall be declared unless it has obligations in the Companys articles of association the been recommended by the Directors and does not articles relating to the ordinary shares of the Company.
The articles can be found on the Companys website.
exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Ifthe Directors believe that the profits of the Company Voting: At a general meeting, subject to any special justify such payment, they may pay dividends on any rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares: class of share where the dividend is payable on xed a on a show of hands, every member present in person dates.
They may also pay interim dividends on shares and every duly appointed proxy present shall have one 02 vote: b on a show of hands, a proxy has one vote for of any class in amounts and on dates and periods as they think t. Unless the share rights otherwise provide, and one vote against the resolution if the proxy has all dividends shall be declared and paid according to the been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution and the proxy has been so amounts paid up on the shares on which the dividend ispaid, and apportioned and paid pro rata according instructed: and c on a poll, every member present in to the amounts paid on the shares during any portion or person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by him.
Unless the Directors resolve otherwise, no member portions of the period in respect of which the dividend ispaid.
Any unclaimed dividends may be invested or shall be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy otherwise applied for the benefit of the Company until orto exercise any other right in relation to general they are claimed.
Any dividend unclaimed for 12 years meetings if any call or other sum due from him to the from the date on which it was declared or became due Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
for payment shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Transfer of shares: Transfers of certicated shares must Company.
The Directors may, if authorised by ordinary be effected in writing, and signed by or on behalf of the resolution, offer to ordinary shareholders the right to transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, elect to receive, in lieu of a dividend, an allotment of byor on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall newordinary shares credited as fully paid.
remain the holder of the shares concerned until the Borrowing powers: The Board may exercise all the name of the transferee is entered in the register of powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, members in respect of those shares.
The Directors may to indemnify, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, decline to register any transfer of a certicated share, property, assets present and future and uncalled capital, unless a the instrument of transfer is in respect of and to issue debentures and other securities whether only one class of share, b the instrument of transfer is outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability lodged at the transfer office, duly stamped if required, accompanied by the relevant share certicate s or or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
other evidence reasonably required by the Directors to DIRECTORS show the transferors right to make the transfer or, if the Biographical details for the Directors of the Company instrument of transfer is executed by some other person at the date of this report are set out on pages 42 to 43. on the transferors behalf, the authority of that person to Details of directors service contracts or letters of do so, and c the certicated share is fully paid up.
The appointment, their interests in the ordinary shares of the Directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer Company and in any of the Groups long term incentive of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
and other share schemes are set out in the Directors Directors powers: The Directors shall manage the Remuneration Report which can be found on business and affairs of the Company and may exercise pages 60 to 72. all powers of the Company other than those that are EMPLOYEES required by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act The Company is committed to actively communicating or by the articles to be exercised by the Company at with employees in many ways, including regular the general meeting.
The Directors may delegate any of briengs on financial performance and training on their powers or discretions, including those involving the health and safety matters.
payment of remuneration or the conferring of any other benefit to the Directors, to such person or committee The Group continues to have a diverse workforce and in such manner as they think t. Any such person or comprising local employees, contractors and expatriates committee shall, unless the Directors otherwise resolve, at most sites.
The Group is an equal opportunities have the power to sub-delegate any of the powers or employer and where existing employees become discretions delegated to them.
disabled, it is the Companys policy to provide continuing employment under similar terms and conditions, wherever practicable, and to provide training and career development.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group employed 71 people 2011: 42 people.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 45 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS Details of change of control clauses contained in the The Group made donations of US$10,859 to charitable contracts of employment of the executive directors causes during 2012 2011: Nil.
These donations focused are set out on page 66 of the Directors Remuneration on African causes.
As part of its commitments to the Report.
Certain members of the Groups senior various countries where Ophir operates, it participates management team have agreements providing in social and community-related as well as economic for compensation for loss of office or employment programmes.
Further information on these activities is that occurs because of a change of control.
set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages All the Companys share incentive plans contain 34 to 37. provisions relating to a change of control and full The Company does not make political donations details of these plans are provided in the Directors and has no intention of making donations to what Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 65.
Generally, are generally regarded as political parties.
As a outstanding awards under the Foundation Incentive precautionary measure, and in the light of the wide Plan, the 2006 Plan and the Deferred Share Plan will denitions of European Union political organisations for vest in full and become exercisable on or before a the purposes of the 2006 Act, a resolution permitting change of control.
The Remuneration Committee may the Company to make political donations and incur allow outstanding awards under the Long Term political expenditure will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Incentive Plan LTIP to vest to the extent that any A similar resolution was proposed and passed at the performance condition is satisfied at the date of that AGM in 2012. event and, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, such level of vesting to be reduced to take CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, BUSINESS CONDUCT account of the fact that the award is vesting early.
AND ETHICS LTIP awards may instead be exchanged for equivalent The Company is committed to sound business conduct awards over shares in the acquiring company.
in its relationships with stakeholders shareholders, employees, customers, business partners and suppliers, DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE governments and regulators, communities and the OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS environment.
The Group seeks to conduct its operations The Directors who were members of the Board at the with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect time of approving the Directors Report are listed on for the human rights and interests of our employees page 43.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and, as such, ensures that its anti-bribery policy is fully tand of the Companys auditors, each of these directors understood and implemented by all employees and confirms that: other key stakeholders.
To the best of each directors knowledge and belief, The Board is also fully committed to ensuring that high there is no information that is information that is standards of health, safety and environmental practices needed by the Groups auditors in connection with are implemented and maintained by the Group.
preparing their report of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Each director has taken all the steps a Director might Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37. reasonably be expected to have to be aware of relevant SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY audit information and to establish that the Companys The Companys policy, and that of the Group, is to settle auditors are aware of that information.
all debts on a timely basis and within terms of payment AUDITOR agreed with each supplier on the approval of the Details of the Companys policy on external auditor relevant contract.
At 31 December 2012, the Group rotation are set out on page 55 of the Corporate had an average of 34 days purchases outstanding in Governance Report.
Notwithstanding that the Company creditors 2011: 29 days.
will undertake a review of its external audit services CHANGE OF CONTROL during 2013, the current auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, The Group has entered into a number of commercial hasindicated its willingness to continue in office and contracts which might take effect, alter or terminate resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the on a change of control of the Company.
However, none Companys auditor and to authorise the Directors to of these is considered to be significant in terms of their setthe auditors remuneration will be proposed at likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
COM 46 GOVERNANCE GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business review on pages 6 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, consisting of cash resources of US$227.7 million, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 32 to 33.
In addition, note 19 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for 02 managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In making their going concern assessment, the Directors have considered Group budgets and cash ow forecasts for a period of at least the next 12 months.
Ophir plans to use a combination of effective portfolio management and or equity to fund the next 12 months forecast expenditure.
On 4 March 2013 the Company announced its intention to raise equity proceeds by way of a Placing and Rights Issue.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is now well placed to meet its exploration and appraisal expenditure commitments for at least the next 12 months.
As a result of this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
By order of the Board LISA MITCHELL Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 4 March 2013 Registered office: 50 New Bond Street, London W1S 1BJ Company registered in England and Wales No.
