GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 4 7 2 5 8 3 6 WWW.
JOHN LANDER Chairman of the Board Independent non-executive director Nicholas Smith was appointed as a non-executive John Lander was appointed as a non-executive director in October 2007 and as Chairman in September directorin November 2008.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee and a member of the and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Nicholas Smith trained as a chartered accountant before John Lander has over 40 years experience in the joining the Jardine Fleming Group, becoming Chief international oil and gas industry.
He began as a Financial Officer from 1993-1997.
He is a non-executive geophysicist with Shell prior to holding executive 02 director of Schroder Asia Pacic Fund plc, Asian Citrus positions at RTZ Oil and Gas Limited, Pict Petroleum plc, Holdings Ltd and Aberdeen New Thai Investment Trust plc.
Premier Oil plc, British-Borneo Petroleum Syndicate plc and Tullow Oil plc.
He is a non-executive director of 2.
NICK COOPER Neon Energy Limited.
Chief Executive Officer Nick Cooper was appointed as a director and Chief 7.
LYNDON POWELL Executive Officer in June 2011.
Independent non-executive director Lyndon Powell was appointed as a non-executive Prior to joining Ophir, Nick Cooper was Chief Financial director in November 2008.
He is Chairman of the HSE Officer and co-founder of Salamander Energy plc.
Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Hebegan his career as a geophysicist with BG and Nomination Committees.
Amoco before joining Booz-Allen & Hamilton.
From 1999-2005 he was a member of the oil and gas Lyndon Powell spent the majority of his career in the team atGoldman Sachs.
Nick has a BSc and PhD in armed services, gaining a wide spectrum of experience Geophysical Sciences and an MBA from INSEAD.
in operational and strategic security management.
Thisincluded providing protection to the Foreign & 3.
JONATHAN TAYLOR Commonwealth Office and commanding four major Executive director and founder units.
He is director and owner of Barbican Global Ltd, Jonathan Taylor was a founding director of Ophir specialising in providing independent security advice in 2004 and is a member of the HSE Committee.
Jonathan Taylor was Exploration Director of Fusion 8.
WILLIAM BILL SCHRADER Oil&Gas plc from November 1998 until March 2004.
Independent non-executive director Before Fusion he held a range of technical and asset Bill Schrader was appointed as a non-executive director management roles in Africa, Europe, the Far East and on 18 February 2013. the Middle East for Amerada Hess Ltd, Clyde Petroleum plc and Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. Bill Schrader has over 25 years experience working atBP, including as Chief Executive Officer of several 4.
DENNIS MCSHANE country operations, as President of the Azerbaijan Executive director of CorporateStrategy International Operating Company and as chief operating Dennis McShane was appointed as a non-executive officer of TNK-BP.
Throughout his career Bill Schrader director in October 2007 and as senior independent has been commended for his strong leadership qualities, director in September 2009.
On 18 February 2013, strategic vision and capability in managing complex Dennis was appointed as Director of Corporate operating and government relationships.
Strategy and a member of the executive management.
Directors who resigned and retired during the year Dennis McShane is a founding principal of Midas Resource Partners.
From 2004 to 2008 he was ALAN STEIN executive director of strategy for the Ferrexpo group Deputy Chairman and founder ofcompanies.
Prior to this he was an investment banker Retired 19 June 2012 with JPMorgan Chase emerging markets and mining RAJAN TANDON and metals practices in New York, London and Sydney.
RONALD BLAKELY Resigned 19 June 2012 Senior independent non-executive director JAROSLAW PACZEK Ronald Blakely was appointed as a non-executive Alternate to Rajan Tandon, shareholder representative director in July 2011 and as senior independent Resigned 19 June 2012 directoron 18 February 2013.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration PATRICK SPINK and Nomination Committees.
Independent non-executive director Resigned 6 August 2012 Ronald Blakely spent over 38 years working for Royal Dutch Shell companies.
On his retirement in October 2008 he held the role of Executive Vice President GlobalDownstream Finance, while previous roles included CFO of Shell Oil Products in the USA and CFOof Shell Canada.
