BUSINESS PROFILE Our Business is structured as three segments 04 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 which reect our targeted markets and technologies.
This means we can focus our expertise and our innovation on offering our customers high quality products and service NANOTECHNOLOGY TOOLS INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS High performance technology products for Analytical systems and components for research and industry research and industry NanoAnalysis Industrial Analysis Leading-edge tools that enable materials characterisation and High quality instruments for materials identication and sample manipulation at the nanometre scale.
thickness gauging analysis essential for quality control.
NanoScience Superconducting Wire Worlds leading supplier of systems for nanoWorld leader in the provision of high performance characterisation and measurement at low temperatures superconducting wire for industry and research.
Austin Plasma Technology Specialises in high vacuum products, helium gas Tools and processes for the fabrication of nanostructures.
coolers and services for the semiconductor, research, life science and energy industries.
Omicron NanoTechnology The most advanced tools for Magnetic Resonance scientists researching at the Benchtop magnetic resonance frontiers of nanotechnology.
153.9m 129.1m Sector Sector revenue revenue For more information, see For more information, see Operating Review, page 14 Operating Review, page 12 SERVICE World-wide network of service and support U Third party servicing and support to operators of Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI and Computerised Tomography CT scanners.
U Supply of refurbished MRI CT systems, x-ray tubes, and other consumables for healthcare customers in North America.
56.3m Sector U Full range of spares, consumables and accessories for all product ranges.
revenue U Service elements of Nanotechnology Tools and Industrial Products sectors.
For more information, see Operating Review, page 15 BUSINESS PROFILE 05 Our vision is to pursue responsible Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 development and deeper understanding of the world through science and technology Geographies Diverse End Markets sales by geographies sales by market segments Rest of World 3.2% Rest of World 3.9% Europe 32.0% Europe 34.1% Asia 37.9% Asia 33.8% 2010 2011 2011 2012 North America 26.9% North America 28.2% Our ofces around the world EUROPE Tubney Woods, UK High Wycombe, UK Bristol, UK East Grinstead, UK Taunusstein, Germany Wiesbaden, Germany Uedem, Germany St. Cannat, France Gometz la Ville, France Praha, Czech Republic Espoo, Finland Liding, Sweden Moscow, The Russian NORTH AMERICA Federation Vacaville, USA ASIA Deereld Beach, USA Woodbridge, USA Chengdu, China Eden Prairies, USA Beijing, China Austin, USA 2 Shanghai, China 2 Concord, USA Guangzhou, China Scotts Valley, USA Singapore Carteret, USA Taiwan Dallas, USA Tokyo, Japan 2 Mumbai, India 10% Energy Semicon 11% IT Metal 12% Construction 6% Environment 18% Life Sciences 43% Research & Academia
