BUSINESS PROFILE Our Strategy to grow the business exploits 08 08 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 the Oxford Instruments brand, our superior technology and exposure to diverse markets where demand is growing.
We combine this with an ability to implement economies of scale and efficiency improvements, a focused acquisition strategy and a world class R&D programme driven by our highly skilled and experienced people THE 14 CUBED PLAN This organic growth will be supplemented Having made substantial progress during by targeted acquisitions and the three made our five year plan, the foundations for in 2011 are already contributing to our long term profitable growth were in growth.
The organic and acquisition growth place.
In 2011 12 we focused on the next strands of our strategy are supported by phase of growth with the introduction of an internal efficiency programme which the 14 Cubed Plan.
This plan calls for seeks both to increase revenues by annual compound revenue growth of boosting our customer satisfaction levels 14% and a return on sales of 14% to be and to manage costs.
This programme is achieved by 2014.
The 14 Cubed Plan is built around five key goals: driven by three elements: strong organic 14 Cubed Plan growth, continuous efficiency U Delivering for shareholders improvements and targeted acquisitions.
These will each contribute to our targets U Liberating cash for growth and margin improvement.
U Inventing the future The 14% compound growth rate is planned to be achieved primarily through U Realising the Brand organic growth.
We believe that this growth level can be obtained because of U Adding personal value the valued position of the Oxford Instruments brand in our high technology Each of these goals is measured by key markets, our exposure to the growing performance indicators against which markets of Asia and our customer we calibrate our progress, enabling us to targeted R&D programme.
monitor momentum at both divisional and Group level on a regular basis.
FINANCIAL GOAL What we measure Why we measure How we performed To deliver shareholder U Revenue growth U Tracks our performance return through growth on our growth strategy in turnover and margin 2010 2011 2012 U Net return on sales U Tracks our performance on our profitability strategy 2010 2011 2012 7.0% 2.4% 10.7% 24.0% 12.5% 28.6% BUSINESS PROFILE 09 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES What we measure Why we measure How we performed Liberating Cash U Cash conversion U Monitors our use of 1 from profit Fixed Assets, Working Capital and R&D 2010 2011 2012 Inventing the Future U Proportion of revenue U Measures the effectiveness coming from products of our R&D programmes launched or acquired in the previous 3 years 2010 2011 2012 2 Realising the Brand U Net Promoter Score U Measures Customer Feedback 2011 2012 Adding Personal Value U Value Add Index U Measures efficiency Adjusted Operating profit Employment Costs Employment Costs 2010 2011 2012 1 Cash conversion is dened as the ratio of cash generated to adjusted operating profit see Income Statement.
Cash generated is calculated as adjusted operating profit plus depreciation and amortisation, minus capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and research and development, and adjusted for movements in working capital.
A cash conversion of greater than 100% shows that cash generated by the Group exceeds the adjusted operating profit for the year.
2 The Net Promoter Score is a metric which was introduced Group wide during 2011.
No data exists for earlier years.
It is compiled by asking customers at the completion of a piece of service work whether they would recommend Oxford Instruments to a friend or colleague.
Customers give a score between zero and ten.
Those customers who score nine or ten are promoters, those customers who score seven or eight are neutral and customers who score six or less are detractors.
The net promoter score is the difference between the numbers of promoters and the number of detractors both expressed as a percentage of the number of replies received.
The score can range between 100 no customers are promoters and 100 all customers are promoters.
A positive score indicates that the company has fewer detractors than promoters.
The 2011 score was obtained from a survey of our customers at a single point in time.
During 2012 we initiated a process of surveying customers on a rolling basis immediately after the completion of a piece of work and we now use this data as the basis for our published KPI.
