BUSINESS PROFILE Our Markets and applications serve a broad 06 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 range of industries and geographies.
The diverse customer base provides resilience to macroeconomic pressures, with our largest customer representing less than 7% of sales.
The diverse geographies, especially exposure to emerging markets supports our strategy for growth RESEARCH & ACADEMIA LIFE SCIENCES Total revenues from Asia Our largest market sector includes A growing market sector includes the research into nanotechnology support and service of MR and CT 33.8% applications, new materials, data imaging equipment and the supply of protection, pharmaceuticals, superconducting wire for MRI scanners.
security, renewable energies, and next generation quantum computing.
18% 43% Revenue Revenue by market by market segment segment SEMICONDUCTORS IT ENERGY A market that is growing signicantly New forms of energy are attracting in Asia and includes semiconductor significant investment from both electronics, Micro Electro Mechanical government and the private sector.
Systems, MEMS, compound We are involved in the search for semiconductor materials, thin lm sustainable energy ITER, solar and particle analysis.
technologies, oil and gas exploration, and superconductor materials.
11% 10% Revenue Revenue by market by market segment segment Deep silicon etch tools INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS: X-MET7000 handheld analyser BUSINESS PROFILE 07 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 ENVIRONMENT METALS CONSTRUCTION As one of the major challenges of Our customers span global industries the 21st Century, preservation of from metals, alloy manufacturing, our environment is a key driver.
steel foundries and scrap recycling Our markets include tools for: to automotive, aerospace, precious metals and cement.
U }L}i U `iiVv `L Vi U V Vi ` i} for RoHS and WEEE U `iiVv LiwLi U iVV} U iViV X-MET7000 hand-held analyser U }Vi `v` Increased demand for raw materials such as copper, zinc and nickel 6% 12% leads to an increase in demand Revenue Revenue for accurate scrap sorting.
Scrap by market by market sorters and recyclers need rugged segment segment and accurate materials analysis for the rapid identication of alloys enabling them to correctly value scrap at the point they buy and sell.
Oxford Instruments X-MET7000 handheld analyser uses XRF X-ray uorescence to identify the presence of key metal elements in only a few seconds.
The X-MET is an easy to use, robust tool which clearly displays the types of metal present in a sample on a clear, colour display.
The user simply points the analyser at the scrap and pulls the trigger.
