Governance Report of the Directors The directors present their report to shareholders on pages 14 to 22 together with the audited Financial Statements for the year The Groups principal activities ended 31 December 2012 year prior financial period, year ended 31 December 2011. are the development, design anddistribution of technologies, Principal activities products and services for The Groups principal activities are the development, design and distribution of technologies, products and services for managed subscription managed subscription television, telephony and broadband television, telephony and services and the provision of engineering design and software applications to its customers.
The Group also provides related broadband services and the support services including systems integration and customer provision of engineering design care centres.
and software applications to its Business and financial results STB and gateway customers.
The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review and Management Report, including a review of the Groups activities, developments and the financial results for the year, and Summary the key financial performance indicators relevant to the business of the Company principally revenue, gross margin %, adjusted t The Group is controlled through the EBITA, profit before tax, operating margin, free cash ow, stock Board of Directors, which comprises two turns, debtor days and net debt, can be found in the Chief executive and five non-executive directors Executive Ofcers Review and the Chief Financial Ofcers t The directors recommend the payment Review on pages 5 to 11.
The aforementioned information is incorporated in this report by reference.
There is no information ofa final dividend of3.06 cents per which falls to be disclosed pursuant to Section 417 5 of the ordinary share, giving a total dividend of Companies Act 2006, other than as noted in the risks and 4.50 cents per share for the full year uncertainties section below.
t Substantial ongoing programme ofresearch Risks and uncertainties and development of new products, spending The following are the key risks and uncertainties relevant to the $158.6 million in the year business of the Group: Customers and markets Orders placed by the Groups PayTV and telecoms customers are typically large one-off orders for delivery over a number of months with supplemental orders for additional volumes.
As the eventual deployment of the STB or gateways can be unpredictable, revenues can be volatile.
The difficulty in predicting the Groups business ow and its risks can be exacerbated by a number of other factors including, for example, the development process for an advanced STB, which can take over twelve months.
TheGroup works on long lead times e. g. four months or more for component supply and manufacture, typical of the industry.
In the USA market, in particular, customers rm order lead times may be less than the component lead times.
There are third party delivery risks, for example, difficulties in the delivery of components or software code, and the final order for manufacture and rm contractual commitment is usually dependent on product approvals and acceptance both from the operator and sometimes from third parties.
The Group is also exposed to the industry wide inherent risk of supply chain failure.
The Group has put in place 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc Regulatory Risks and uncertainties continued The Group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and Customers and markets continued standards and remains exposed to changes in the regulatory procedures to monitor the financial and operating strength environment, including potential modications to import duty ofkey suppliers.
In addition, it utilises dual or multi source regimes, and legislation relevant to the Groups products and suppliers where possible to mitigate this risk.
It is Paces policy to require that all its subsidiaries Product liability claims comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards.
In common with many companies in the industry, the Group is Currency risks exposed to the risk of product liability claims made by customers The standard industry currency is the US Dollar, with the majority or affected third parties, should the Groups products not full of components and manufacturing capacity purchased in this the terms of the contracts under which they are sold.
However, due to part of the Groups revenues being has in place quality control and other operational procedures in Sterling and Euros, the Group is exposed to the risk of foreign tomitigate this risk.
To manage this risk, the Groups treasury Credit risk policy is progressively to cover cash ows when these are The Finance function of the Group obtains reports from sufciently certain and to seek price variations through contractual thirdparty sources in respect of the credit worthiness of key mechanisms where significant currency movements occur.
customers and suppliers and sets individual credit limits as appropriate.
The Company previously maintained a credit Financial results insurance policy, which provided cover over certain debtors The consolidated income statement for the year is set out on where it is was considered economically viable, subject to page 34.
The profit before tax was $80.1 million 2011: $54.7 million excesses.
The Company reviewed this policy in February 2013 and the profit before tax, interest, exceptional items and amortisation and determined that the insurance coverage was no longer of other intangibles was $158.1 million 2011: $141.4 million.
economically viable based on the availability of such insurance, the amount of excess required and financial cost of the premium.
Dividend Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend theFinance function.
Credit limits for each customer are set of3.06 cents per ordinary share 2011: 2.50 cents to be paid based on an evaluation of financial strength.
The Companys on5July 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close customers are by and large profitable and cash positive.
No bad ofbusiness on 7 June 2013.
An interim dividend of 1.44 cents debt of any signicance has been incurred in the last five years.
perordinary share was paid during the year 2011: 1.25 cents.
Deposit investments are generally undertaken only in liquid securities and with counterparties that have appropriate Dividends will be paid in Sterling equivalent to 2.029 pence per creditratings.
This is based on an exchange rate of $1.508, being the rate applicable on 4 March 2013.
Royalties The Groups products incorporate third party technology, Share capital usually under licence.
Inadvertent actions may expose the Group to the risk of infringing third party intellectual property Details of the Companys share capital including changes forthe rights.
Potential claims can be submitted many years after year and the rights attaching to the ordinary shares arecontained aproduct has been deployed.
in Note 21 and are incorporated in this report byreference.
significant shareholdings The Company has been notied of the following significant shareholdings as at 4 March 2013: Number % of issued of shares share capital Prudential plc Group of Companies 47,751,869 15.34 Schroders plc 30,843,371 9.91 Norges Bank 20,827,865 6.72 David Hood and related family trusts 16,117,539 5.20 BlackRock Inc 15,643,678 5.03 Henderson Investment Management 14,931,083 4.80 Capital Research and Management Company 13,689,478 4.42 Multiight Ltd 10,000,000 3.22 Owned and controlled by David Hood.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 15 Governance Report of the Directors Continued Reporting Council.
The Board confirms that it has established Directors the necessary procedures designed to maintain a sound The names of the current directors of the Company are shown system of internal control and that there is an ongoing process on pages 12 and 13.
Other than as described on pages 12 and 13 for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks in respect of Roddy Murray and Amanda Mesler, all those listed faced by the Company.
held ofce throughout the year.
During the year Stuart Hall retired 6 March 2012 and Board of Directors DavidMcKinney retired 6 January 2012 also held ofce The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors, which asdirectors.
comprises two executive and five non-executive directors whobring a wide range of skills and experience to the Board.
All the directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Biographical details of all directors are to be found on pages 12 Meeting of the Company and, other than Mike Inglis, offer and 13.
The Chairman, Allan Leighton, is mainly responsible for themselves for re-election.
The Board has determined that all the running of the Board ensuring, together with the Company ofthe directors continue to make a very effective contribution Secretary, that it receives timely and clear information appropriate tothe Board anddemonstrate a high level of commitment.
to enable it to discharge its duties.
The responsibilities of the Amanda Mesler, having been appointed by the Board subsequent Chief Executive officer, Mike Pulli, are to focus on running the to the last Annual General Meeting, will hold ofce until the Groups business and implementing Group strategy.
The Chief forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will then offer herself Executive officer is assisted in managing the business on for election at that meeting.
Mike Inglis will retire at the Annual aday-to-day basis by the Executive Committee as further General Meeting but will not offer himself for re-election since described below.
he will beparticipating in a round the world sailing race later this year.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the All the non-executive directors other than the Chairman are non-executive directors letters of appointment are disclosed deemed by the Board to be independent and the Chairman inthe Remuneration Report on pages 25 and 26. was independent on his appointment, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, the Board has Payment to suppliers designated Pat Chapman-Pincher as the Senior Independent It is the policy of the Group to agree terms and conditions for its Director.
All directors have access to the advice and services business transactions with suppliers, which are varied from time ofthe General Counsel and Company Secretary and are able to time.
Payment is made in accordance with those terms, subject totake independent professional advice at the Companys to the other terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
expense in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
Historically, The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment directors have submitted themselves for re-election at least once practice.
Creditor days at the end of the period for the Group every three years and now, each of them submit themselves for were 83 days 31 December 2011: 73 days.
re-election on an annual basis.
New directors receive a programme of tailored induction on joining the Board and all directors are offered Research and development the opportunity tocontinually update their skills and knowledge by attending external training events.
The Company has in place The directors regard it as fundamental to the future success procedures to deal with directors conicts of interest and the ofthe Group to engage in a substantial ongoing programme Board is satisfied that these procedures operate effectively.
ofresearch and development of new products, spending $158.6 million in the year 2011: $169.7 million and charging The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically $155.4 million 2011: $160.6 million to the income statement reserved to it and normally meets at least eight times each year.
during the year following the treatment under IAS 38.
It is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects Donations and consideration of significant nancing matters.
It reviews During the period the Group donated $145,784 2011: $150,746 thestrategic direction of the Group and meets with other to charitable causes.
No political donations were made.
Further seniorexecutives within the Group as required during the year.
details of the charitable and community-related activities of the The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors Group are given on pages 20 and 21. without the executive directors being present on a regular basis.
It is the policy of the Board to undertake a formal review and Corporate governance evaluation of its performance including the performance of its committees, the Chairman and individual directors on an annual As referred to on page 25 the Company granted an basis.
This is generally concluded by written feedback in Appointment Share Award to Allan Leighton on his appointment standardised form from each director to the Chairman or the as Non-executive Chairman.
Save in respect of this Appointment Senior Independent Director in the case of appraisal of the Share Award, the directors believe that the Company has Chairman.
The Board will consider appointing an independent complied throughout the period with the UK Corporate facilitator for the evaluation process at least once every threeyears.
Governance Code, as revised and adopted by the Financial 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc The Nominations Committee is comprised of non-executive Board committees directors Pat Chapman-Pincher, John Grant, Mike Inglis and The Board has established the following committees, each Amanda Mesler and is chaired by Allan Leighton.
Its principal ofwhich has written terms of reference specifying its authority purpose is to consider and make recommendations to the Board and duties and copies of which are publicly available on the regarding the appointment of new directors.
The Nominations Companys website: www.
Committee meets at least once a year or as required.
The Audit & Risk Committee is comprised of independent Externalsearch consultants were appointed by the Committee designated non-executive directors Pat Chapman-Pincher, in connection with the appointment of Roddy Murray and MikeInglis, Amanda Mesler and John Grant, who is the Amanda Mesler.
John Grant was previously Group Finance Director of a listed business and is considered by Directors remuneration theBoard to have the necessary recent and relevant financial The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of experience for his role as Chairman.
Details of the role and theexecutive directors and other members of the Executive ofthe primary responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee Committee as a prelude to recommending their annual areexplained on page 18. remuneration, bonus awards and long-term share incentive awards to theBoard.
The final determinations are made by the The Executive Committee is chaired by Mike Pulli as Chief Board asawhole but no director plays a part in any discussions Executive officer.
The Committee generally meets once a month concerning their own remuneration.
There are no agreements and ensures that the strategy, plans and policies previously agreed between theCompany and its directors or employees providing or delegated by the Board are implemented.
for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through The Executive Committee comprises the two executive resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs directors together with the following senior executives: asa result of a takeover bid.
Anthony Dixon General Counsel and Company Secretary The Remuneration Report of the Directors to shareholders is set out on pages 23 to 30 and includes the remuneration policy Jill Ezard Director of Human Resources of the Company and details of directors incentive payments Shane McCarthy President, Pace International and the related performance criteria.
Tim OLoughlin President, Pace Americas Authority to purchase own shares The Remuneration Committee is comprised of Allan Leighton At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 the Company was and independent designated non-executive directors John Grant, authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 45,774,165 of Mike Inglis, Amanda Mesler and Pat Chapman-Pincher, who is itsown ordinary shares, representing 15% of its issued share the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible capital asat March 2012.
The Company did not utilise this for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and authority during the year.
The authority for the Company to othermembers of the Executive Committee including making purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the Annual recommendations regarding the grant of share incentive awards.
General Meeting in 2013 and a resolution to renew it will be The members of the Committee have no personal interest, proposed atthat meeting.
other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no potential conicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in the running of the business.
Board and committee meetings attendance Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 8 3 3 1 Allan Leighton 8 3 1 Mike Pulli 8 Roddy Murray 7 John Grant 8 3 3 1 Mike Inglis 8 3 3 1 Pat Chapman-Pincher 8 3 3 1 Amanda Mesler 3 1 Appointed February 2012 and attended all meetings since appointment.
Appointed September 2012 and attended all meetings since appointment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 17 Governance Report of the Directors Continued Head of Risk Assurance and senior management.
BDO attended Accountability and audit and presented their reports to each of the Audit & Risk Committee A detailed review of the performance of the Groups business meetings during the year.
iscontained in the Chief Executive Ofcers Review and the Chief Financial Ofcers Review.
These statements, together The Committee has, amongst other things, considered the quality with the Chairmans Statement and the Report of the Directors, of reporting to the Committee and impartiality of the internal are intended to present a balanced assessment of the Groups auditors and has concluded that the effectiveness of Internal position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the Audit during the year was satisfactory.
Financial Statements is described on page 31 and the responsibilities of the auditors are described on page 32.
External audit The Audit & Risk Committee has satisfied itself that the external Audit & Risk Committee auditors, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, acted independently of the During the year the Committee undertook the annual review of Group.
Previous appointments of KPMG and the extent of other its terms of reference.
The review focused primarily on extending work undertaken by it were considered inter-alia in this regard.
the Committees role in relation to the areas of the UK Corporate It is the Audit & Risk Committees opinion that there were no Governance Code revised in 2012 and applicable to the current limitations imposed by management on KPMG whilst performing financial year.
Following this review the terms of reference were their duties during the review period.
revised in relation to review of audit services tenders and review of the financial reports and statements.
The Audit & Risk Committee, in consultation with the Groups executive management, agreed to the terms of the KPMG The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for: engagement letter, audit plan and budgeted audit fees for the monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the 2012 financial year.
Company and formal announcements relating to the Companys A formal framework governs the process through which the financial performance and reviewing any significant financial Groups auditors are considered to render non-audit services.
reporting judgements contained therein: The Audit & Risk Committee has approved a policy in relation reviewing the Companys internal financial and operational to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors control and risk management systems: and the nature and extent of non-audit services that the external auditors could provide within the scope of the policy during monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit thenancial year.
function and reviewing its material findings: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments Internal controls anddisclosures in the Financial Statements to ensure clarity Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and completeness such that shareholders may understand rests with the Board.
The Board has delegated certain of its strategic aims and risks of the business of the Group: powers to the Audit & Risk Committee to review the effectiveness of the systems of control and to receive reports from the auditors overseeing the Companys relationship with its external auditors, internal and external and from the management relating to the including making recommendations as to frequency of tendering interim and annual accounts and the control systems in use for audit services, the appointment or re-appointment of throughout the Group.
the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and monitoring their independence and ensuring that policy During the year and up to the date of this report, the Board surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services carried out reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups internal is appropriately applied: and controls.
The reviews were undertaken in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance under the following reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys headings and were aimed at clearly identifying the systems whistleblowing procedures.
already in place and the action plans necessary to improve areas of control weakness.
Internal audit The Companys Head of Risk Assurance, Damien Wilkinson, The control environment who has direct access to the Audit & Risk Committee primarily Subject to those powers and limits of authority reserved by through the Chairman of the Committee, manages an internal theBoard, and to the Group policies and guidelines they have audit function provided by external qualied auditing professionals.
established, the conduct of the business of the Group is delegated The Audit & Risk Committee reviews annually the arrangements within a clearly dened organisational structure and approved for internal audit and during the year the Committee re-appointed level of authority.
The Board has also adopted a Code of Business BDO LLP BDO to act as internal auditors, performing an agreed Ethics, which has been incorporated into the Employee Handbook programme of internal audits in collaboration with the Companys issued to all employees.
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc Risk assessment The directors and senior managers are responsible for identifying The Groups strategic direction and monitoring sources of potential business risk and financial is reviewed regularly by the risk, and for taking such preventative and protective actions asthey consider necessary to manage such risks effectively.
Board and plans, budgets During the year a risk assessment review of the Groups business andperformance targets are has been conducted by the Head of Risk Assurance and BDO acting as internal auditors in conjunction with members of the reviewed and approved Executive Committee.
The Board has received and considered atleastannually.
this review as part of an annual risk and control assessment.
The Groups systems are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, significant business risks, including the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, but can provide only reasonable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Business risks are identied, evaluated and managed through functional line management reporting to divisional meetings, Executive Committee meetings and Board meetings as appropriate.
Each member of the Executive Committee is required to highlight and report on any significant business risks identied within their sphere of responsibility.
The key business risks associated with the timely completion oflong-term development projects and ongoing business risks, including alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights and supply chain interruption, are managed by cross-functional teams of senior employees.
Business continuity plans addressing physical risks to the Groups development sites and maintenance of IT services are maintained.
The Group hasadopted Customer Account Teams CATs grouped within SBUs so as to focus the business on customer needs.
The senior managers within the CATs also monitor the financial and business risks, including competitor risks, associated with the delivery ofagreed plans, reviewing such matters at Business Review Meetings held on a regular basis and attended by members ofthe Executive Committee.
Financial control and information systems The Groups strategic direction is reviewed regularly by the Board and plans, budgets and performance targets are reviewed and approved at least annually.
Directors receive monthly summaries of financial results which compare actual performance with targets, together with detailed management reports that identify the reasons for variances and the progress achieved.
Business planning documents are revised on a regular basis inline with actual and expected performance.
A review of the consolidated Financial Statements is completed by the centralised Group Finance function to ensure that the financial position andresults of the Group are appropriately reected in the consolidated accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 19 Governance Report of the Directors Continued high quality employees.
The Group continues to invest in a range of Control procedures internal and external initiatives to promote employee development.
Financial control procedures have been developed for all of themain business functions and in relation to the Companys Employees are kept informed of matters affecting them financial reporting process and the Groups process for the asemployees and factors affecting the performance of the preparation of consolidated accounts, and have been documented Groupthrough regular employee meetings briengs and in a procedures manual.
Authorisation limits for purchases and regular written news briengs distributed electronically.
capital expenditure are specified and procedures are in place The Group welcomes applications for employment from all for minimising exposure to potential weaknesses in the receipt, sectors of the community and promotes equality of opportunity handling and despatch of goods.
The Groups main premises in employment regardless of age, sex, sexual orientation, disability have received accreditation for BSI ISO 9001: 2000. or ethnic origin.
It is the Groups policy that training, career development and promotion opportunities should be available Monitoring systems to all employees.
In the event that an employee becomes Monitoring of the internal control systems is carried out by disabled, the Group makes reasonable adjustments where theHead of Risk Assurance in conjunction with the internal anyaspect of premises or working practices puts such a auditors, BDO.
disabled employee at a substantial disadvantage compared witha non-disabled employee.
Although no system of internal financial control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, Health and safety theGroups systems are designed to provide the directors Each SBU in the Group has an established Health and Safety withreasonable assurance that transactions are authorised Committee made up of health and safety representatives, the andcompletely and accurately recorded, that assets are designated health and safety officer and other persons with safeguarded and that material errors, irregularities and actions expert knowledge who review health and safety issues relevant contrary to Group policies and directions are either prevented to the Groups business.
Other safety-related committees also orpromptly discovered.
conduct periodic reviews of specic work practices.
These actions complement the UK Governments Health, Work, Wellbeing Going concern HWW initiative which has been adopted and implemented The Group has borrowing facilities in place until March 2014. bythe Company.
At5 March 2013 these are in the form of a $150 million term loan Part of the HWW incorporates return to work programmes which is subject to repayment through instalments of $37.5 million, andthe Groups operations in Saltaire, Americas West each due every six months, plus a final payment of $75 million, and andAmericas East, France, Brazil and India have adopted a $150 million revolver credit facility.
These facilities are subject similar policies.
Each division incorporates, where appropriate, to financial performance covenants which the Group currently their ergonomic risk assessments.
The Groups businesses in complies with.
India, the UK, Americas West and Americas East provide The Boards assessment of the Group and Companys ability to training for First Aid, Fire Evacuation and Fire Wardens.
continue as a going concern has taken into account the effect Americas West undertakes earthquake training and Americas of the current economic climate, current market position and East undertakes hurricane training.
All of these initiatives are the level of borrowings in the year.
The principal risks that the backed up by appropriate risk assessments.
Tool-box talks, Group is challenged with have been set out in the Risks and short presentations on specic aspects of health and safety, Uncertainties section of this report along with how the directors are also published on the Groups intranet and shared between intend to mitigate those risks.
different parts of the Group.
The Board has prepared a financial and working capital The number of workplace accidents during the year for Saltaire forecast that is based upon trading assumptions and other was 6.
Outside the UK, there were 16 accidents in the Americas medium-term plans and has concluded that the Group will West and Americas East operations, 3 in France, 6 in Brazil continue to meet its financial performance covenants and andnone in India.
None of these accidents was regarded as willhave adequate working capital available to continue in serious bythe relevant local Health and Safety Committee.
operational existence forthe foreseeable future.
Charitable and community support The Group has an established Charitable Donations Committee Corporate social responsibility comprising employees based at the Groups premises in the UK Employment policies and the USA.
The Committee considers all requests for charitable The directors recognise the importance of the Groups employees and community project assistance from employees within a to its success and future development and are committed to financial budget and criteria approved by the Board on an providing an environment that will attract, motivate and reward annual basis.
20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc Yorkshire region.
This has enabled the Ahead Partnership to Corporate social responsibility continued develop and roll out their Make the Grade business education Charitable and community support continued partnership model in the West Yorkshire region and during The Groups support through the Committee is focused on the theyear Pace adopted a three-year sponsorship commitment local geographical area of Paces premises in the UK, France, inthis regard.
India and the USA as well as the charitable and community initiatives of Group employees.
In addition, Pace has partnered with Teach First to support the Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM teachers During the year, requests for assistance satisfying the above in Yorkshire and the Humber.
Pace will fund the provision of criteria received financial support amounting to $145,784 in total.
personal development coaches to Teach First participants in Theparticipation of employees of the Group in community and their second year of teaching.
Teach First recruits, trains and charitable activities outside work hours has been encouraged supports teachers working in schools in low income communities by the provision of funds to match individual sponsorship raised.
to raise the achievement, aspirations and access to opportunity Pace has continued as lead sponsor of the Ahead Partnerships of children from low socio-economic backgrounds.
education strand of business engagement in the UKs West Responsible Business During the year the Company set environmental targets and achieved the following outcomes in respect of its chosen measures ofenvironmental impact: Start Date End Date Objective Target Status Jan-12 Dec-12 Management system performance Maintain ISO 14001 in current certied Target Achieved Pacesites ensuring zero major 0 MNCs non-conformances MNCs Jan-12 Dec-12 Improve overall performance FTSE CDP Index drive to increase Target Achieved performance by 5% 79% Jan-12 Dec-13 Reduce the carbon emissions Re-baseline overall CO e performance On-Target 2 associatedwith Pace facilities Reduce by 5% by December 2013 New baseline established Jan-12 Dec-12 Reduce the environmental impact 90% of the hardware design of Pace STBs Target Achieved ofPaceproducts tocomply with or exceed current energy performance standards All STBs designed in 2012 toexceed Target Achieved ascore of 80% in the DfEprogramme 85% 5% reduction in average CO 2% Reduction 2 STBemissions Achieved Jan-12 Dec-12 Achieve ISO 14001 accreditation across Paces ISO 14001 footprint to include Pace Ongoing Pace newly acquired businesses West San Jose and Pace Brazil Manaus Brazil H1 2013 The Company has maintained certication to the international management standard ISO 14001 at its Saltaire, Boca Raton, Bangalore, Paris, Tempe and San Antonio sites.
The Group Environmental Policy has been applied to all Pace sites worldwide.
The Company is a signatory to the European Code of Conduct on Energy efficiency of Digital TV Service Systems EU Code ofConduct, ENERGY STAR Programme Requirements for STBs and MEPS Minimum Energy Performance Standard.
Paceiscommitted to ensuring that all products are designed to minimise energy consumption through its Design for Environmentprogramme.
Full details are available on: http: www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 21 Governance Report of the Directors Continued Corporate social responsibility continued Annual General Meeting Supply chain The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held Pace is a member of the Electronic Industry Citizen Coalition on24April 2013 at the ofces of the Company at Salts Mill, EICC and applies the EICC Code of Conduct in its business.
Victoria Road, Saltaire, West Yorkshire BD18 3LF.
Full details Aprogramme of assessment and auditing is maintained at ofthe business to be transacted at the meeting will be set theregular business review meetings held with the Groups outin the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Responsibility Statement of the Directors Auditors A statement of the responsibilities of the directors is contained KPMG held ofce as auditors during the year.
The directors whose names appear on pages 12 Risk Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of and 13 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the auditors, considering whether, taken as a whole, the various the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the relationships if any between the Group and the auditors impair, applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair or appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the objectivity and independence of KPMG was not in any way consolidation taken as a whole: and impaired by either the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year, the level of the non-audit fees the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the charged or any other fact or circumstances.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included Having considered the results of the Committees work, inthe consolidation taken as a whole, together with the theBoard is recommending the re-appointment of KPMG description of the principal risks and uncertainties that asauditors.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG theyface.
willbe proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Each of the directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Anthony J Dixon auditors are unaware: and the directors have each taken all Company Secretary thesteps that they ought to have taken as a director to make 5 March 2013 themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Relations with shareholders The Board has continued to establish and maintain relationships with institutional shareholders and communicates with investors through the Groups website www.
A programme ofmeetings with institutional shareholders is in place at which institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with non-executive directors and analyst presentations are made following announcement of the interim and annual results.
Shareholders are welcome to participate at the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will be available for questions.
22 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc
