Governance Board of Directors Allan Leighton Mike Pulli Chairman Chief Executive officer Allan was appointed a Non-executive Director in May 2011 Mike was appointed Chief Executive officer on 14 December 2011, andbecame Chairman on 21 June 2011.
He is currently after nearly eight years as President of Pace Americas.
Inhis Chairman of Matalan, Pandora A S, OfceRetail Group Limited roleas CEO, Mike is responsible for leading Paces global strategy.
co. uk and Non-executive Director of As President of Pace Americas, Mike was responsible for the Bighams Limited.
Previously he has held a wide range of public Companys businesses in the USA, Canada and Latin America.
and private company roles including CEO at ASDA, Chairman Prior to joining Pace in 2004, Mike was CEO ofbroadcasting of Royal Mail and Lastminute.
com and Non-executive Director company Digital Latin America DLA.
Previously Mike spent of British Sky Broadcasting plc, Dyson Applications and eightyears at Motorola in various senior management positions, Scottish Power plc.
He is patron of Breast Cancer Care and including Vice President of International Operations, and served hasan honorary degree from Craneld University and in a variety of financial positions at Allied-Signal, Inc. Mike holds anHonorary Fellowship atthe University of Lancaster.
aBachelors degree in Accounting from Rider University and anMBA from Farleigh Dickinson University.
Roddy Murray Chief Financial officer Roddy was appointed an Executive Director on 25 February 2012 and became Chief Financial officer on 6 March 2012.
Roddy was previously CFO of The BSS Group Plc and CFO ofMoss Bros Group Plc.
Prior to that he held a number of financial roles in MacKays Stores, United Distillers and British Airways.
He qualied as a Chartered Accountant at the Scottish Institute before joining Price Waterhouse.
He holds a Bachelors degree in Administration from Dundee University.
12 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc Mike Inglis Amanda Mesler Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Mike was appointed a Non-executive Director in July 2008.
Amanda was appointed a Non-executive Director in September Heis currently Chief Commercial officer of ARM Holdings until 2012.
She is a US citizen and is also a Non-executive Director of the end of March 2013 having previously been EVP Processor Ensygnia, a technology start-up.
Previously she was the CEO of Division andEVP Sales and Marketing.
Before joining ARM, Business Consulting and an Executive Committee member of heworked inmanagement consultancy with A. T. Kearney and Logica plc.
Prior to joining Logica, Amanda was a corporate held a number of senior operational and marketing positions at officer and VP of Strategy and Organisation Design for Fortune Motorola.
Hepreviously worked in semiconductor sales, marketing, 100, SYSCO.
Prior to this Amanda was a senior partner at design and consultancy with Texas Instruments, Fairchild and BearingPoint Consulting formerly KPMG Consulting working in BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial experience with Houston where she led a client portfolio, including many leading GEC Telecommunications.
He is a Chartered Engineer and oil companies, and spent time as the Global Leader for Energy aMember of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Her early career was with GE as the Asia-Pacic MarketManager.
Pat Chapman-Pincher John Grant Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Pat was appointed a Non-executive Director in February 2005 John was appointed a Non-executive Director in August 2008. and became Senior Independent Director in May 2006.
She has John spent his executive career in a variety of senior international over 35 years experience in the communications industry from roles within the automotive industry and other engineering senior roles in multinational internet and telecoms companies to businesses.
He was Chief Executive of Ascot plc between 1997 participating in technology company start-ups.
Prior to that, he was Group Finance Director of and Chairman of the Cavell Group, which specialises in operational Lucas Industries plc subsequently Lucas Varity plc between consultancy IP and wireless technologies, she is a Board Adviser 1992 and 1996.
He previously held a number of senior positions to the British Standards Institute and a CEO Mentor with within Ford Motor Company in Europe and the USA.
Johnisa Merryck and Co. Non-executive Director of Melrose plc, MHP S. A. andWolfson Microelectronics plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 13
