06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Pearsons strategy: John Fallon, Chief executive Dear shareholders, I really do consider it to be a great privilege to be writing to you for the first time as Pearsons chief executive.
I had the good fortune to join the company 16 years ago: since then Ive worked for Pearson in London, New York and Harlow and travelled to all corners of the world as weve built our education business.
Ive learned many things in that time, but above all that this is a very special company, with agreat sense of purpose and many talented and Watch an interview with John Fallon, dedicated people.
com In the months since my appointment was announced, Ive spent a good deal of time talking to a wide range of stakeholders customers, shareholders, colleagues As the worlds leading and partners about the company.
learning company, Faster into digital, services and emerging markets Pearson has a once-in-aMy conclusion based on what Ive heard in recent months and learned first hand over the past 16 years generation opportunity.
The Pearson strategy is settled and sound, and we need to accelerate its To seize it, we must implementation.
We need to move faster in our , our move into services and transform the company thebuilding of our presence in emerging markets.
Our strategy is settled and sound: we are now accelerating its OUR STRATEGY implementation.
Four global businesses We are focusing on school, higher education, English 1 language learning and business education.
We are taking an increasingly global view of educational needs and trends.
Four types of geographic market We will carefully evaluate when we offer global 2 products and services, when we customise for local needs, and when we require a true local approach.
We will focus our investment on markets with the biggest growth opportunities.
Four business models We will channel our investment into four proven 3 business models: direct-to-consumer: Pearson Inside our shorthand for institutional services toschools and universities : assessment: and learningsystems.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 07 I want to use this letter to explain why we need personalised learning and MOOCs massive open toaccelerate, and how we will do it.
online courses are on the rise.
This shift to digital is profoundly changing the business model for content: If youve read Marjories letters over the years, youll itmeans one-off sales will diminish while subscription be familiar with the key tenets of our strategy and the sales, most bundled with services, will grow.
That progress that Pearson has already made.
Under her sameshift to digital causes considerable change and leadership, Pearson set out to become a world-leading consolidation in the retail channel, with a dramatic education company, and that is a privilege and shiftto online sales and different sales patterns for responsibility we now enjoy.
We wanted to make a physical and digital formats.
radical shift from traditional print products to digital and services businesses, and, for the first time in Im not going to dwell on the 2012 results here, Pearsons history, those now account for half of our because Robin Freestone covers them in detail in the revenues.
We aimed to become a significant player next section.
But in 2012 we saw plenty of evidence inthe worlds most dynamic education markets, and tosuggest that those structural changes are gathering Pearson is now a meaningful education company in speed and force.
In many of our traditional publishing China, India, Brazil and Southern Africa.
And weve markets, we posted another excellent competitive achieved this transformation while sustaining a performance.
Yet the reward for those efforts was disciplined approach to capital allocation.
thatin some markets we declined at a slower rate than our rivals.
Atthe same time, we draw confidence from Structural change in the world of education strong growth insome of our emerging markets.
We see our fast-growing markets as categories as This is a powerful set of advantages with which to much as geographies they aredigital products and tackle a changing external environment.
We continue services, learning systems, the direct delivery of to see significant structural change, including a shift effective education andlearning: as well as fastfrom print to digital content and from classroom growing economies.
Spending on textbooks isat or declining, while mobile devices, UNIQUE MARKET POSITION 2011 Education revenues Pearson $7.0bn Apollo Group $4.5bn Benesse Education $3.7bn Laureate $3.2bn Kaplan $2.5bn McGraw-Hill $2.3bn Career Education Corp $1.8bn Corinthian Colleges $1.7bn Cengage Learning $1.6bn HMH $1.2bn Santillana $1.0bn ETS $0.9bn Anhanguera $0.7bn New Oriental $0.7bn K12 Inc $0.6bn Lagardere Education $0.6bn Blackboard $0.5bn Scholastic $0.5bn Kroton Education $0.4bn Innitas Learning $0.4bn Holtzbrinck Macmillan $0.4bn Sanoma Education $0.4bn Educomp $0.3bn 08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Pearsons strategy: John Fallon, Chief executive continued Our motto, as you might know, is always learning Trends andthere are some lessons for us to learn from all this.
We have to manage disruption in our traditional PRINT TO DIGITAL businesses while building direct relationships with Number of US college students taking at least learners and leading the digital transformation of one online course % total enrolments millions education.
Our future customers will be consumers, 32.0% 6.7m or learners, just as much as the institutions that serve 10 29.2% 6.1m them.
We have to tilt the company more quickly 09 27.3% 5.6m toward the biggest sources of future demand.
We 08 24.1% 4.6m have to work ever harder to help our customers do 07 21.6% 3.9m more, and better, with less.
And we have to focus less 06 19.6% 3.3m on what we make, and much more on the measurable 05 18.2% 3.2m impact our products and services can actually deliver.
04 13.5% 2.3m 03 11.7% 2.0m Global education is a once-in-a-generation opportunity 02 9.6% 1.6m If that all sounds a little daunting, there is another side Source: Babson annual online learning survey to the Pearson story.
We think education will turn out THE RISE OF THE MIDDLE CLASS to be the great growth industry of the 21st Century.
Numbers of middle class people millions People the world over increasingly understand the fundamental truth perhaps best expressed by 09 1,845m Benjamin Franklin: An investment in knowledge 20 3,249m always pays the best interest.
Middle class consumption, $bn 2005$ The economic returns to education are very clear.
09 $21,284bn Forexample, 90% ofthe fastest-growing jobs in the 20 $35,045bn US economy require a college degree and a college graduate will earn, on average over their career North America Europe Central & South America lifetime, one million dollars more than a highAsia Pacic Sub-Saharan Africa Middle East & North Africa schooldrop-out.
Source: The Brookings Institution Our growth prospects are also fuelled by a THE CONSUMER EDUCATION MARKET remarkable socio-economic trend: in this decade, theglobal middle class will almost double in size to Household income spent on education % more than three billion people.
Nearly all of that China 13.1% growth will be in the developing world.
Thats Turkey 11.4% important to many industries but especially to ours, India 11.1% because as consumers join the middle class and earn Brazil 9.8% higher incomes, they tend to invest more in education Indonesia 9.5% either to advance their careers or give their children Saudi Arabia 8.6% a good start in life.
Russia 6.8% South Africa i 5.5% We draw two conclusions from those kinds of trends.
US 2.1% The first is that global education is a once-in-aUK 1.6% generation opportunity and Pearson is uniquely placed Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Office of National Statistics, to grasp it.
The second is that, to seize that opportunity, Credit Suisse we need to transform the company again.
11 OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 09 Transforming the company again Our business Digital learning services now account for around oneSTRENGTH IN HIGH-GROWTH MARKETS third of our sales.
They are growing at more than 20%, but we need to make them a much bigger part of Pearson emerging markets revenues Pearson n emerging markets revenues $m $m Pearson.
Emerging markets are another 15% of our 12 12 1 1, 241m 241m sales.
But they already account for more than one- 11 11 1 1,036m, 036m third of the world economy and are forecast to 10 10 834m 834m produce more than two-thirds of global growth 09 09 6 648m 48m overthe next decade.
So, we must radically shift 08 08 5 51 13 3m m ourfocus, attention and resources to those very big 07 07 4 47 71 1m m opportunities.
And that is the reason for the changes China Hong Kong China H Hong Kong India India Africa Africa Central Latin America Central Latin America Middle East Middle East in the company that we announced with our 2012 results.
We need to shift resources more quickly from textbook publishing activities, primarily in the developed world, where demand is at or declining, so we can invest more quickly in our fast-growing digital and services businesses, with a special emphasis SHIFT TO DIGITAL AND SERVICES on emerging markets.
Pearsons digital and services revenues % sales m Our transformation includes a focus on four global businesses: School, Higher Education, English and 12 50% 3,039m Business Education.
We are taking an increasingly 11 45% 2,633m global view of educational needs, consumer trends 10 40% 2,266m and product development for these businesses.
09 37% 1,917m 08 34% 1,481m We are applying a new model where we group 07 31% 1,174m markets, or countries, in four categories and allocate capital accordingly: growth markets where we see thebiggest opportunities: watch markets where we see potential for big growth: maintain markets where we have good businesses but see more modest future growth: and drive markets where we will work THE NEED FOR TRANSFORMATION WHERE ARE OUR CUSTOMERS?
through local partners to meet those countries Pearson revenues 2012 Pearson n revenues 2012 K-20 % of students K-20 % of students needsmore effectively.
bn bn % CAGR 1998-2010 % CAGR 1998-2010 Our framework also involves shifting an increasing proportion of investment into our faster-growing and proven service-oriented models.
They are: direct to consumer, building on the success of initiatives such asour language schools in China: Pearson Inside, shorthand for comprehensive institutional services such as our virtual schools in the US and school systems in Brazil: assessment and certication of students and professionals: and personalised learning systems, which deliver individual learning through Emerging Emerg ging 0.8bn 0.8bn North America & North America & Euro Europe pe 0.2% 0.2% systems of instruction combined with measurement Developed Developed 5.3bn 5.3bn RoW RoW 0 0.6%.
3.1% 1% Source: Pearson, UNESCO Source: Pearson, UNESCO 10 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Pearsons strategy: John Fallon, Chief executive continued An important part of that transformation is the Building on our record of strong performance merger of our consumer publishing business, Penguin, Those measures on efficacy complement our more with Bertelsmanns Random House, which we expect traditional financial measures and goals but they to complete this year.
Penguin has been part of donot, of course, replace them.
We will build on Pearson for more than four decades.
It is a special Pearsons record of consistently strong financial company that is deeply intertwined with Pearsons performance, because profits and cash will fuel the culture and operations.
But it had become increasingly transformational investments that we need to make.
clear that, in a rapidly-changing consumer books Meeting those financial measures will require us to industry, Penguins creative and financial success could make hard choices about where we choose to invest best be secured in combination with Random House, and what wehave to do less of or stop doing altogether.
which we viewed as the ideal partner.
This will be an excellent business and we will be active long-term For, if 2012 was tough, then there are many reasons partners in it.
cyclical, structural, competitive, consumer led why 2013 is likely to be tougher still.
Many of our markets Another important component will be business especially in the developed economies and where we education, which we see as part of our once-in-aare particularly dependent on our more traditional generation opportunity.
There is a substantial market product models have been in decline for some for learning for globally minded, highly aspirational yearsnow.
business people, and if there is one brand in the world that could turbo-charge our ability to capture that All this change is going to be challenging for Pearson.
market, it is the Financial Times.
We are actively Itis not a revolution: Marjories own leadership of exploring this opportunity.
thecompany was characterised by constant, restless change.
However, we do need to accelerate that A focus on outcomes change into emerging markets, into services and inour digital transformation very quickly now.
There is one other major component to the changes we are making.
For decades, Pearson has provided As we do that, we very much appreciate and rely on inputs into the process of education: a textbook, an the support of our shareholders.
By investing in assessment, a course, a qualication.
We would put all Pearson, youve made an investment in knowledge and of those things in the hands of an experienced teacher education.
We will be working as hard as we possibly or an enthusiastic student.
In most cases, we would can to be sure that Benjamin Franklins words apply to not be able to predict or measure learning outcomes.
And well be inspired, too, by Marjories great achievement demonstrating time Under the leadership of our chief education advisor, and time again that the best and most sustainable way Sir Michael Barber, we have spent the past two years for a company to prosper is to meet an important need developing a framework and a set of tools that will in society and to do it really well.
Well be striving very change that.
The Pearson efficacy framework is a hard to live up to her example.
unique, rigorous and scalable quality assurance system that checks that the necessary conditions are in place for an education programme to deliver the intended learning outcomes.
We have reviewed almost 100 Pearson programmes under this framework, and we are improving our products and services by acting John Fallon Chief executive onthe findings.
We also are now making an efficacy review a requirement for any new product investment of $3m or more, and for any acquisition proposal.
Over time, this will also improve our rate of innovation and invention.
