48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance Corporate governance Senior independent director Vivienne Cox is the companys senior independent Introduction director, having been appointed to the role on The board believes that during 2012 the company was 1 January 2013 following Patrick Cescaus resignation in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance from the board.
A detailed account of the provisions of the Code can be found on the FRCs website at Viviennes role will include meeting regularly with the www.
uk and we encourage readers to view chairman and chief executive to discuss specific issues, our compliance schedule on the company website at e. g. strategy, attending meetings with major www.
com investors  to understand any issues or concerns information governance they may have, as well as being available to shareholders generally if they should have concerns The board embraces the Codes underlying principles that have not been addressed through the normal with regard to board balance and diversity and the channels.
In her first year with Pearson, Vivienne has nomination committee, led by the chairman, is actively been instrumental in the introduction of the boards seeking additional suitable candidates who possess the reputation and responsibility committee, which she right mix of knowledge, skills and experience to chairs, and in improving the quality of health and safety enhance debate and decision-making.
Composition of the board During 2012, Patrick Cescau held separate sessions The board currently consists of the chairman, with the other non-executive directors and the Glen Moreno, five executive directors including the chief executive to appraise the performance of the chief executive, John Fallon, and five independent chairman, including in relation to the effectiveness of non-executive directors.
Following his departure in December, Patrick was invited back in February 2013 As reported, Rona Fairhead will step down from the to conduct similar sessions in respect of the chairmans board at the forthcoming AGM.
Additionally, subject performance during 2012 as part of the annual board to completion of the Penguin Random House venture, evaluation process.
Vivienne, as senior independent John Makinson will be appointed as chairman of director, will then take responsibility for appraising the Penguin Random House and it is intended that he will chairmans performance during 2013 and beyond.
step down from the Pearson board at that time.
The senior independent director would be expected to chair the nomination committee in the event that Chairman and chief executive it was considering succession to the role of chairman There is a defined split of responsibilities between the of the board.
chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board Independence of directors and ensuring its effectiveness: the chief executive is All of the non-executive directors were considered by responsible for the operational management of the the board to be independent for the purposes of the business and for the development and implementation Code during the year ended 31 December 2012. of the companys strategy as agreed by the board.
The roles and responsibilities of the chairman and The board reviews the independence of each of chief executive are clearly defined, set out in writing the non-executive directors annually.
This includes and reviewed and agreed by the board annually.
reviewing their external appointments and any potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing their Chairman individual circumstances in order to ensure that there In May 2012, Glen Moreno stood down from his role are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect as deputy chairman and senior independent director their character or judgement.
Apart from this, there were Susan Fuhrman has now served on the board for more no changes to the chairmans significant commitments than eight years.
Throughout that time, Susan, as during the course of 2012. a leader in educational reform and efficacy, has made a very positive contribution to our board and committee work.
Susan has indicated that she intends to stand down from the board at the 2014 AGM.
