50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance continued The following table sets out the attendance of the found on the company website at companys directors at board and committee meetings www.
com investors shareholderduring 2012: information governance The board receives timely, regular and necessary Audit Rem.
Board committee committee committee financial, management and other information to fulfil its meetings meetings meetings meetings max 6 max 4 max 6 max 6 duties.
Comprehensive board papers are circulated to the board and committee members at least one week Chairman in advance of each meeting and the board receives Glen Moreno 6 6 6 monthly reports from the chief executive.
In addition Executive directors to meeting papers, a library of current and historic Marjorie Scardino 6 6 corporate information is made available to directors Will Ethridge 6 electronically to support the boards decision-making process.
Directors can obtain independent professional John Fallon 2 advice, at the companys expense, in the performance Rona Fairhead 5 of their duties as directors.
All directors have access to Robin Freestone 6 the advice and services of the company secretary.
John Makinson 6 Non-executive directors meet with local senior Non-executive management every time board and committee directors meetings are held at the locations of operating David Arculus 6 4 6 6 companies.
This allows the non-executive directors Patrick Cescau 6 2 3 6 to share their experience and expertise with senior Vivienne Cox 5 4 5 5 managers and also enables the non-executive directors Susan Fuhrman 6 4 6 to better understand the abilities of senior management, which in turn will help them assess the Ken Hydon 6 4 6 6 companys prospects and plans for succession.
Josh Lewis 6 4 6 Succession planning appointed to the board on 3 October 2012. stood down from audit and remuneration committees The board views succession planning not only at on 30 April 2012. board and executive committee level but for all key positions throughout the business as one of its prime The role and business of the board responsibilities.
This is especially the case in a creative The board is deeply engaged in developing and business like Pearson which is heavily dependent on measuring the companys long-term strategy, talented people.
We believe that it adds It is our intention to devote one full meeting each year a valuable and diverse set of external perspectives to organisation structure and succession planning, and and that robust, open debate about significant how they support the delivery of our strategic goals.
business issues brings a valuable additional discipline During 2012, the boards succession planning activities to major decisions.
focused on the role of chief executive.
In a typical year A schedule of formal matters reserved for the boards however, we look in detail at 20 to 30 of the most decision and approval is available on our website, senior roles in Pearson, ensuring that there are several at www.
com investors shareholdercredible candidates for each role.
Those candidates will information governance be well known to the board who spend considerable time visiting our businesses and people outside the A standing committee of the board has been regular schedule of board meetings and will have established to approve certain ordinary course of development plans in place to round out their business items such as banking matters, guarantees, experience and skills and give them every possible intra-group transactions and employee share plan chance of progressing their careers.
The committee has written terms of reference, reviewed and approved annually, which clearly set out its authority and duties.
