OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 51 Board evaluation In addition to the review of the board and individual directors, the audit and remuneration committees each The board conducts an annual review of its undergo an annual evaluation process to review their effectiveness.
For the review of 2011, conducted performance and effectiveness.
The process covers during the early part of 2012, the chairman met with areas such as roles and responsibilities, quality and each of the directors, executive and non-executive, on timeliness of meeting materials, opportunity for a one-to-one basis to discuss the boards effectiveness discussion and debate, dialogue with management and progress made against objectives.
He also took the and access to independent advice.
opportunity to discuss with each director their individual training and development needs.
For the board effectiveness review of 2012, the chairman is planning to spend time with the senior Following that review, the chairman presented his independent director talking about their plans for the findings at the April 2012 board meeting.
He noted board in terms of structure and focus for the coming that from his one-to-one sessions with each of the year as well as reviewing the previous board evaluation directors he was able to conclude that the board to ensure that recommendations have been followed members believe that they work well together, that the through.
They will also start to plan a more structured, board culture is good, that they add value as a board, external evaluation of 2013. focus on the right things and that they have a good mix of both people and skills.
He also detailed how the Last year, we reported that the boards evaluation board might improve its effectiveness, and explained process had highlighted a need to deepen the boards that a common theme in his discussions related to the knowledge of emerging markets.
Building on this, the boards understanding of reputational and other risks.
board visited Brazil in 2012 to learn first hand about the Groups Latin American operations and strategy.
Following that review the senior management team CASE STUDY was tasked with thinking about how the board might gain a deeper understanding of the reputational risks Brazil that affect the business, and later in the year, as a direct result of their recommendation, the board formed the reputation and responsibility committee.
The purpose In June 2012, the Pearson board held a three of this committee is to have oversight of Pearsons day meeting in So Paulo, Brazil.
The purpose strategy and our plans to build and protect our of this board meeting was to review our corporate reputation, and the reputation of our major businesses in Brazil, and to better understand brands.
The committee membership includes two the opportunities in the Latin American education non-executive directors, the chief executive and the market.
During their three day stay, the board director of communications: it reports regularly to the met with key local management of all our board and meets on a quarterly basis.
The committee businesses operating in Brazil, including the held its first meeting in December 2012, and the recently acquired Companhia das Letras business agenda for that meeting included a consideration of Pearson acquired 45% in January 2012, as well Pearsons major reputational risks, and a focus on the as with senior executives and the regional heads public affairs team in North America.
of Pearsons Latin America operation.
During the course of the year the executive directors The board also met with former President Lula to were also evaluated by the chief executive on their discuss Brazilian education policy.
Whilst in Brazil, performance against personal objectives under the the board visited a school to learn first-hand companys appraisal mechanism.
A proportion about the benets of the Brazilian sistema method which for 2012 may be up to 20% of the total annual of education, and a university where an interactive incentive opportunity is based on functional, panel session was held involving university operational, strategic and non-financial objectives professors, business students and certain board relevant to the executives specific area of members.
During 2013 the board plans to have responsibility.
The chairman leads the assessment of similar meetings with local businesses in South the chief executive and the non-executive directors, Africa and the US.
led by the senior independent director, conduct a review of the chairmans performance.
