OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 21 Professional Education KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We won a number of new contracts including a ten-year contract to administer all computer and paper-based tests for the Australia CPA Professional Our Professional exams and five-year contracts with the National Education business is Center for Assessment in Saudi Arabia and the National Council of State Boards of Nursing to focused on publishing, provide the NCLEX-RN in Canada beginning in 2015for ten Canadian registered nurse RN training, testing regulatory bodies.
andcertication The partnership with the American Council on Education to develop an online General Educational forprofessionals.
Development GED test aligned with new Common Core standards has now launched computer-based Sales Adjusted operating profit testing in 37 jurisdictions.
2012 390m 2012 37m Continuing our digital transformation, we adapted 2011 382m 2011 66m ourbooking service for the Driving Standards Agency DSA to work on mobile devices.
We also introduced Headline growth 2% Headline growth 44 % one-to-many biometric matching technology into CER growth 2% CER growth 44 % testing centres to enhance fraud detection.
Underlying growth 9 % Underlying growth 54 % Professional training Professional training was very weak with our UK adulttraining business, Pearson in Practice, facing a dramatic fall in demand as a result of changes to the Our Professional Education business is focused apprenticeships programme.
We believe this business onpublishing, training, testing and certication no longer has a sustainable model and announced in forprofessionals.
The weakness in our UK training January that we are to exit Pearson in Practice.
The business, Pearson in Practice, had a significant negative cost of exit and impairment is 113m and is reported impact on our 2012 performance and resulted in our as a loss on closure in Pearsons 2012 statutory accounts.
decision to exit the business.
Other parts of the TQ continues to make significant progress in the Professional division performed well.
direct delivery of training services overseas.
In Saudi Arabia, we extended the contract to operate the Professional testing highlights in 2012 include: Saudi Petroleum Services Institute for five years and Professional testing continued to see good revenue won a five-year contract to run a new Institute at Al and profit growth with test volumes at Pearson VUE Khafji.
In Oman, a TQ-led consortium won the bid up 7% on 2011 to almost 8 million with Certiport toprovide training to BP, including a wide range of adding an additional 2.3 million tests, up 13% on 2011. technical and English language training for BP workers There were key renewals of the National Council of as they prepare to open up the Khazzan oilfield for State Boards of Nursing contract running until 2019 fullscale production in 2016. and the Computing Technology Industry Association contract was secured with Pearson VUE as the single Professional publishing highlights in 2012 include: vendor running through to 2017.
Professional publishing grew modestly with good profit growth.
In the US, growth of eBook sales and other digital products and services continued to outpace ongoing challenges in the traditional retail channel.
