52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance continued Directors training and induction There are five trading updates each year and the chief executive and chief financial officer present our Directors receive a significant bespoke induction preliminary and interim results updates.
They also attend programme and a range of information about Pearson regular meetings throughout the year with investors both when they join the board.
This includes background in the UK and around the world, tailored to investor information on Pearson and details of board procedures, requirements, to discuss the performance of the directors responsibilities and various governance-related company, the companys strategy, structural changes in issues, including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares our markets and risks and opportunities for the future.
and their legal obligations as directors.
The induction also includes a series of meetings with members of the board, The chairman meets regularly with significant presentations regarding the business from senior shareholders to understand any issues and concerns they executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor may have.
This is in accordance with both the Code and relations programme.
The non-executive directors meet informally with shareholders both before and after The directors training is supplemented with the AGM and respond to shareholder queries and presentations about the companys operations, by requests as necessary.
The chairman ensures that the holding board meetings at the locations of operating board is kept informed of principal investors and companies and by encouraging the directors to visit advisers views on strategy and corporate governance.
operating companies and local management as and when their schedule allows.
The company secretary monitors We also have an established programme of educational developments in governance and directors fiduciary seminars for our institutional shareholders focusing duties and updates the board on such matters as agreed on individual parts of Pearson.
These seminars are with the chairman.
Directors can also make use of available to all shareholders via webcast on external courses.
com Directors indemnities Private investors represent over 80% of the shareholders on our register and we make a concerted effort to In accordance with section 232 of the Act, the company engage with them regularly.
Shareholders who cannot grants an indemnity to all of its directors.
The indemnity attend the AGM are invited to email questions to the relates to costs incurred by them in defending any civil or chairman in advance at glenmoreno-agm@pearson.
com criminal proceedings and in connection with an application for relief under sections 661 3 and 4 or We encourage our private shareholders to become sections 1157 1 - 3 of the Act, so long as monies are more informed investors and have provided a wealth of repaid not later than when the outcome becomes final if: information on our website about managing Pearson i they are convicted in the proceedings: ii judgment is shareholdings, see given against them: or iii the court refuses to grant the www.
for further information, or turn to p181 of this report.
We also encourage all shareholders, who have not The company has purchased and maintains directors already done so, to register their email addresses through and officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities our website and with our registrar.
This enables them to and costs for claims in connection with any act or receive email alerts when trading updates and other omission by such directors and officers in the execution important announcements are added to our website.
We post all company announcements on our website, Shareholder engagement www.
com, as soon as they are released, and Pearson has an extensive programme of communication major shareholder presentations are made accessible with all of its shareholders large and small, institutional via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains and private.
a dedicated investor relations section with an extensive archive of past announcements and presentations, In 2012, we continued with our shareholder outreach historical financial performance, share price data and programme, seeing approximately 650 institutional and a calendar of events.
It also includes information about private investors at more than 350 different institutions in all of our businesses, links to their websites and details Australia, Canada, China, Continental Europe, Japan, of our corporate responsibility policies and activities.
Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, the UK and the US.
