OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 53 We are committed to ensuring that all our Board committees shareholders receive their dividends and during 2012 The board has established three formal committees: we informed any shareholder who had outstanding the nomination committee, the remuneration unclaimed dividends of the amounts owed to them committee and the audit committee.
The chairmen and how they could claim these.
To this end, during and members of these committees are appointed the year, we also reminded shareholders of our by the board on the recommendation where dividend mandate service which enables UK and many appropriate of the nomination committee and in overseas shareholders to receive dividends directly consultation with each relevant committee chairman.
into their nominated bank account, and we invite any shareholders who have not yet done so to consider In addition to these board committees, three further using this method for dividend payments.
committees operate with board input: the Pearson management committee PMC, the standing We recently provided shareholders with smaller committee and the recently-established reputation holdings the opportunity to use our registrars low-cost and responsibility committee.
share dealing service, giving them the chance to add to or reduce their stake in Pearson at significantly reduced NOMINATION COMMITTEE dealing rates, or to donate shares to charity with ease.
Chairman Glen Moreno This service proved very popular with shareholders, Members David Arculus, Vivienne Cox, John Fallon, and consequently we intend to offer this service again Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon, Josh Lewis and Glen Moreno at a future date.
We believe it is important that our employees have The nomination committee meets at least once a year a shared interest in the direction and achievements and as and when required.
The committee primarily of Pearson and are pleased to say that a large number monitors the composition and balance of the board of our employees are shareholders in the company.
and its committees, and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors and or Our AGM which will be held on 26 April this year committee members.
is an opportunity for all shareholders to meet the board and to hear presentations about Pearsons businesses and results.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE FRAMEWORK BOARD Chairman Five executive directors Five non-executive directors AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Chaired by Ken Hydon Chaired by David Arculus Chaired by Glen Moreno Five non-executive Chairman Chairman directors Three non-executive Chief executive directors Five non-executive directors REPUTATION AND PEARSON MANAGEMENT STANDING COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The schedule of matters reserved for the board and the terms of reference of the audit, remuneration, nomination and standing committees are available at w ww.
com investors  governance 54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance continued During 2012, the committees primary focus was the Gender balance % appointment of Pearsons new chief executive following Marjorie Scardinos decision to step down at Board 27% 73% the end of 2012, and consequently the committee met Top managers 25% 75% six times during the course of the year.
At its February Successors 41% 59% meeting, the committee reviewed succession planning Female Male for non-executive and executive board positions and senior management, as well as board committee membership.
Whilst the chairman of the board chairs the The committee ensures that the directors of Pearson nomination committee, he is not permitted to chair demonstrate a broad balance of skills, experience, meetings when the appointment of his successor is independence, knowledge and diversity including being considered or during a discussion regarding his gender diversity.
There are currently three female performance.
At such times, the senior independent directors on the board, one of whom is an executive director will chair the meetings.
The committee and the board always take The committee has written terms of reference account of diversity when considering board which clearly set out its authority and duties.
appointments and will continue to do so, whilst These can be found on the company website ensuring that appointments are made based on merit at www.
com investors shareholderand relevant experience.
information governance The plan for 2013 is to continue to develop REMUNERATION COMMITTEE programmes and relationships that help attract talented diverse people into our business and retain Chairman David Arculus them and to continue to track our progress.
Members David Arculus, Vivienne Cox, Ken Hydon and Glen Moreno In particular, Pearson intends to commence work on a comprehensive gender diversity strategy, and to develop a global diversity strategy focusing on the key The remuneration committee reports to the full board emerging markets of India, China and Brazil.
and a letter from the chairman of the remuneration committee and its report on directors remuneration, Pearson continues to show evidence of progress which has been considered and adopted by the board, in relation to the retention of people with diverse is set out on pages 64 to 92. backgrounds for both entry level and management positions and has made significant progress over the The committee met six times during the year, years in advancing women and culturally diverse and has written terms of reference which clearly people.
As at December 2012, 25% of Pearsons top set out its authority and duties.
These can be found managers were women, and 41% of successors for on the company website at www.
com such roles were female, including an increasing number investors  governance of business leaders as well as functional roles such as HR and finance, ensuring that the pipeline of talented women within Pearson remains strong.
To support this pipeline, a diversity toolkit for managers was launched in the UK, to provide managers with advice and guidance on developing their diversity management skills.
We hope to launch a US version during 2013.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 55 Members AUDIT COMMITTEE All of the audit committee members are independent Chairman Ken Hydon non-executive directors and have financial and or Members David Arculus, Vivienne Cox, Susan Fuhrman, related business experience due to the senior positions Ken Hydon and Josh Lewis they hold or have held in other listed or publicly traded As I described last year, in my role as companies and or similar public organisations.
audit committee chairman, I consider Ken Hydon, chairman of the committee, is the the key role of the committee to be in companys designated financial expert.
He is a Fellow providing oversight and reassurance to the board, of the Chartered Institute of Management specifically with regard to the integrity of the Accountants, the Association of Chartered Certified companys financial reporting, accounting policies, Accountants and the Association of Corporate risk management and internal control processes and Treasurers.
He also serves as audit committee governance framework.
chairman for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, and until recently for Tesco plc and Royal Berkshire NHS Fundamental to this role is the committees access to Foundation Trust.
Once again, committee meetings The qualifications and relevant experience of the other have been attended by the chief financial officer and committee members are detailed on page 46. head of Group internal audit and risk assurance, and often by the chief executive and chairman.
Individual Role and responsibilities managers have joined meetings for specic topics, The committee has written terms of reference which e. g. treasury, tax or business continuity planning.
clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are In total, 16 managers attended one or more meetings reviewed annually and can be found on the company during the year.
During the boards visit to So Paulo, website at www.
com investors shareholdermembers of the committee met with local senior information governance financial management to discuss risk management, The committee has been established by the financial control and the Pearson code of conduct.
board primarily for the purpose of overseeing the In July, the committee met with the companys chief accounting, financial reporting, internal control and risk information officer and director of digital strategy to management processes of the company and the audit discuss the approach taken to data protection.
of the financial statements of the company.
Finally, in December, in its first risk deep-dive session aimed at making the risk review process The committee is responsible for assisting the boards more tangible, the committee met with the president oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys of the US assessment and information group to external financial reporting and statements and the discuss risks and mitigation strategy related to the companys accounting policies and practices.
This approach The Groups internal and external auditors have worked well, and I am keen that the committee holds direct access to the committee to raise any matter of additional sessions in 2013 focusing on key risks concern and to report on the results of work directed within Pearson, as well as continuing to meet local by the committee.
The committee reports to the full management throughout the year and whenever the board at every board meeting immediately following a board is scheduled to meet in overseas locations.
It also reviews the independence The committee has a healthy interaction with group of the external auditors, including the provision of internal audit and PwC, who attend all of our regular non-audit services further details of which can be committee meetings.
Again, I see this as fundamental found on pages 59 and 60, and ensures that there is an to the role of the committee and to my position appropriate audit relationship and that auditor as chairman.
objectivity and independence is upheld.
We always need to be learning, as the business progresses and the environments in which we operate change.
Ken Hydon 56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance continued External audit The committee discussed these issues with the Based on managements recommendations, the auditors at the time of their review of the half year committee reviews the proposal on the appointment interim financial statements in July 2012 and again at of the external auditors.
The committee reviewed the the conclusion of their audit of the financial statements effectiveness and independence of the external for the year in February 2013.
In December 2012, auditors during 2012 and remains satisfied that the the committee discussed with the auditors the status auditors provide effective independent challenge to of their work, focusing on their work in relation to management.
The committee will continue to review internal controls.
As the auditors concluded their audit, the performance of the external auditors on an annual they explained to the committee: basis and will consider their independence and The work they had conducted over revenue, which objectivity, taking account of all appropriate guidelines.
included targeted procedures at businesses which There are no contractual obligations restricting the were considered to have more complex revenue committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, recognition, such as the assessment and testing the external auditors are required to rotate the audit businesses: partner responsible for the Group audit every five The results of their review of acquisition accounting years.
The current lead audit partner has been in place for all significant acquisitions, encompassing assessment for five years and consequently will rotate following of managements valuations of intangible assets as well completion of the Groups 2012 year end audit.
as other purchase price adjustments: In accordance with our external auditor policy, Group The work they had done to test managements internal audit performs an annual assessment of audit assumptions and estimates in relation to balance sheet fees, services and independence.
This review forms the judgements and calculations encompassing provisions basis for a recommendation by the committee to the for doubtful debts and inventory, recoverability of preboard in respect of the appointment and compensation publication assets and authors advances, reserves for of our external auditor.
Having previously conducted sales returns, estimates of current and deferred tax a full tender exercise in 1996, and considered and pension liabilities and other contingencies and re-tendering in subsequent years, we intend to give how they had satisfied themselves that these were consideration during 2013 to the timing of our next reasonable: formal tender, mindful of the 2012 Code requirement The impact of the boards decision on the future to undertake a formal tendering process at least once options for the Pearson in Practice business: every ten years.
The results of their review of the impairment model, including their challenge of managements underlying During the year, the committee discussed the planning, cash flow projections and consideration of key conduct and conclusions of the external audit as assumptions such as discount rates and perpetuity it proceeded.
rates and sensitivities, which indicated that all cashAt the July 2012 audit committee meeting, the generating units had adequate headroom: committee discussed and approved the auditors The results of their controls testing to date for group audit plan and identified the following key risks Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 reporting purposes of misstatement of the Groups financial statements, and in support of their financial statements audit: and which were updated at the December 2012 The review of the companys going concern reports.
committee meeting: The auditors also reported to the committee the Revenue recognition, in light of a number of products misstatements that they had found in the course and services sold by Pearson where revenue of their work, which were insignificant, and the recognition practices are complex and management committee confirmed that there were no assumptions and estimates are necessary: material items remaining unadjusted in these Accounting for acquisitions in light of material financial statements.
transactions in 2011 and 2012, in particular, valuation of acquired intangibles which involves significant Training judgement: and The committee receives regular technical updates Disposal accounting, in particular relating to proposed as well as specific or personal training as appropriate.
During 2012, two committee members took advantage of a personal training session provided by PwC.
