44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board of directors Pearsons board brings a wide range of experience, skills and backgrounds.
CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Glen Moreno Chairman John Fallon Chief executive Will Ethridge Chief executive, aged 69, appointed 1 October 2005 aged 50, appointed 3 October 2012 Pearson North American Education aged 61, appointed 1 May 2008 Chairman of the nomination committee Member of the nomination committee and member of the remuneration Will has three decades of experience John became Pearsons chief executive on committee ineducation and educational publishing, 1 January 2013.
Since 2008 he had been including a decade and a half at Pearson Glen has more than three decades responsible for the companys education where he formerly headed our Higher of experience in business and finance, businesses outside North America, and Education, International and Professional and is currently deputy chairman of a member of the Pearson management Publishing business.
Prior to joining The Financial Reporting Council Limited committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 Pearson in 1998, Will was a senior in the UK and non-executive director as director of communications and was executive at Prentice Hall and Addisonof Fidelity International Limited.
appointed president of Pearson Inc. a role Wesley, and before that an editor at Previously, Glen was deputy chairman he combined with his communications Little, Brown and Co. where he published and senior independent director at responsibilities, in 2000.
In 2003, he was in the elds of economics and politics.
Lloyds Banking Group plc, senior appointed CEO of Pearsons educational Will is a board member and former independent director of Man Group publishing businesses for Europe, Middle chairman of the Association of American plc and acting chairman of UK Financial East & Africa EMA and gradually took Publishers AAP and board chairman of Investments Limited, the company on a broader international education CourseSmart, a consortium of electronic set up by HM Treasury to manage brief.
Prior to joining Pearson, John was textbook publishers.
thegovernments shareholdings in director of corporate affairs at Powergen British banks.
plc, where he was also a member of the companys executive committee.
Earlier in his career, John held senior public policy and communications roles in UK local government.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 45 Rona Fairhead Chairman of Robin Freestone Chief financial officer John Makinson Chairman and chief the Financial Times Group aged 54, appointed 12 June 2006 executive of The Penguin Group aged 51, appointed 1 June 2002 aged 58, appointed 15 March 1996 Robins experience in management Rona, who has headed the Financial and accounting includes a previous Johns diverse background spans business, Times Group since 2006 and is a former role as group financial controller of consultancy, financial journalism and finance director of Pearson, will step Amersham plc now part of General publishing.
He was finance director of down from the Pearson board and Electric and senior financial positions Pearson before heading Penguin, and leave the company at the annual general with ICI plc, Zeneca and Henkel UK.
previously served as managing director meeting in April 2013.
She previously He joined Pearson in 2004 as deputy of the Financial Times newspaper, where held senior management roles at chief financial officer and became chief he had earlier served as editor of the specialty chemicals company ICI plc, and financial officer in June 2006.
John co-founded in aerospace with Bombardier Shorts.
qualied as a chartered accountant with Makinson Cowell, an international She has an MBA from Harvard Business Touche Ross now Deloitte, and is financial consultancy, and was vice School.
Rona currently serves as noncurrently a non-executive director and chairman of the US holding company executive director of The Cabinet Office founder shareholder of eChem Limited.
of advertising rm Saatchi & Saatchi.
of UK government and of HSBC Holdings Robin sits on the Advisory Group of the John is chairman of the National Theatre plc, where she chairs the risk committee.
ICAEWs Financial Reporting Faculty and and has been named chairman-designate She is also a member of the Cambridge is chairman of The Hundred Group of of Penguin Random House, the consumer University Library Visiting Committee.
publishing venture planned by Pearson She was made a Commander of the and Bertelsmann.
46 Pe Pea ar rs so on p n pllc c A An nn nu ua all r re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 12 2 Board of directors continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Arculus Non-executive director Vivienne Cox Senior independent director Susan Fuhrman Non-executive director aged 66, appointed 28 February 2006 aged 53, appointed 1 January 2012 aged 68, appointed 27 July 2004 Chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the audit, remuneration Member of the audit and nomination and member of the audit and nomination andnomination committees committees committees Vivienne has wide experience in energy, Susans extensive experience in education David has experience in banking, natural resources and business innovation.
includes her current role as president of telecommunications and publishing in a long She worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain Teachers College at Columbia University, career in business.
Currently he is chairman and continental Europe, in posts including Americas oldest and largest graduate school of Aldermore Bank plc, Numis Corporation executive vice president and chief executive of education.
She is president of the plc and the Advisory Board of the British of BPs Gas, Power & Renewables business National Academy of Education, and was Library.
Davids previous roles include the and its Alternative Energy unit.
She is nonpreviously dean of the Graduate School of chairmanship of O plc, Severn Trent plc and executive director of mining company Rio Education at the University of Pennsylvania 2 IPC Group, as well as chief operating officer Tinto plc, energy company BG Group plc, and on the board of trustees of the Carnegie of United Business Media plc, group and Vallourec, which supplies tubular Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.
managing director of EMAP plc and a nonsystems for the energy industry.
She is also executive director of Telefonica S. A. David lead independent director at the UK served from 2002 to 2006 as chairman of Department for International Development.
the British governments Better Regulation Vivienne sits on the board of INSEAD and Task Force, which worked on reducing isa commissioner of the Airports burdens on business.
Commission, which was set up by the UK government to examine any requirements for additional UK airport capacity.
Ken Hydon Non-executive director Josh Lewis Non-executive director aged 68, appointed 28 February 2006 aged 50, appointed 1 March 2011 Chairman of the audit committee Member of the audit and nomination andmember of the remuneration committees andnomination committees Joshs experience spans finance, education Kens experience in finance and business and the development of digital enterprises.
includes roles in electronics, consumer He is founder of Salmon River Capital LLC, products and healthcare.
He is a nonaNew York-based private equity venture executive director of Reckitt Benckiser capital rm focused on technology-enabled Group plc, one of the worlds leading businesses in education, financial services manufacturers and marketers of branded and other sectors.
Over a 25 year career products in household cleaning and health inactive, principal investing, he has been and personal care.
From 2004 to 2013 he involved in a broad range of successful was a non-executive director of Tesco plc.
companies, including several pioneering Previously, Ken was chief financial officer of enterprises in the education sector.
Vodafone Group plc and financial director Inaddition, he has long been active in the of subsidiaries of Racal Electronics.
non-profit education sector, with associations including New Leaders, New Classrooms, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
Heis also a non-executive director of eVestment and Axioma, both financial technology companies, Parchment, an education data company, and PeriGen, a healthcare information technology provider.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 47 Chairmans letter Dear shareholders Pearson has a wealth of talent within its workforce with a diverse and experienced senior management This year, we are reporting, as is required, against the team heading the companys operations.
To 2010 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code complement our strong management structure, the Code.
We have endeavoured, where possible, we believe that the most effective board is one which to report in the spirit of the 2012 Code which will maximises the contributions of non-executive only apply for reporting periods beginning on or after directors, adding a wide range of valuable external 1 October 2012. perspectives and encouraging robust, open debate As I have highlighted elsewhere within this report, over significant business issues.
Our goal is to improve Pearson is currently undergoing a period of transition the balance of independent non-executive directors on in its leadership following the appointment of John the board, while retaining an overall board size which is Fallon as our new chief executive, and I would like to manageable and effective.
To this end, we are actively take this opportunity to share with you further details seeking additional non-executive directors who bring of the recent and forthcoming changes to our board expertise in education, emerging markets and digital as well as providing an insight into how the technologies to continue to drive our strategy and board operates.
vision, whilst ensuring the board adheres to Pearsons core values.
We are keen to maintain the gender The Pearson board consists of senior executive diversity of the board in light of recent and forthcoming management alongside a strong group of non-executive departures and, consequently, the nomination directors drawn from successful international committee is actively seeking to identify suitable businesses and education institutions with experience female candidates.
of corporate strategy, education, consumer marketing and technology.
The board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring the companys long-term strategy, We are continually assessing and refreshing the board performance and value.
We organise our work around to ensure we maintain an appropriate balance and four major themes where we believe the board can diversity of skills and experience.
add value: governance, strategy, business performance In addition to Marjorie Scardinos departure as chief and people.
Our board calendar and agenda provide executive, at the end of 2012 we also said goodbye to ample time to focus on these themes and we have set Patrick Cescau, who served on the board for over ten out some examples of the business considered by the years, including three years as our senior independent board, as well as the governance practices to which we director.
The board joins me in thanking Patrick for his adhere, on the pages that follow.
commitment and invaluable contribution to Pearson We hope this report clearly sets out how your as we have navigated our international expansion.
company is run, and how we align governance Following Patricks departure, we are pleased to and our board agenda with the strategic direction confirm that Vivienne Cox has been appointed as of Pearson.
We always welcome questions or senior independent director.
We welcome Vivienne comments from shareholders, either via our website to the role and believe that her broad commercial www.
com or in person at our annual knowledge and experience both as an executive and shareholders meeting.
non-executive director make her highly suitable for this position.
As announced late last year, Rona Fairhead will be stepping down from the board, and from her role as Glen Moreno Chairman chairman of The Financial Times Group, to pursue other opportunities.
Rona handed over her responsibilities as chief executive of the FT to John Ridding at the end of 2012.
Rona has played an important role during her 12-year career at Pearson having held a number of senior roles within the group, and we wish her continued success in the next phase of her career.
