Directors report Business review Chairmans statement Dear shareholder Our Group financial performance for the year has again been strong notwithstanding the challenging economic environment.
Financial review Group revenue rose by 6.4% to 1,233.1 million and our profit before tax increased by 6.4% to 200.5 million.
Our earnings per share before deferred tax increased by 11.8% to 47.3p.
The Group has substantial cash resources and undrawn facilities and is well positioned for the future.
South West Waters Regulatory Capital Value RCV grew by a further 4.6% during 2011 12 to 2.83 billion.
RCV has grown by an average of around 5% per annum since the beginning of the K4 2005-2010 period.
Viridors profit before tax at 57.6 million was a reduction of 8.4% on the previous year.
Around 50% of Viridors profit contribution came from recovering the value in waste.
Dividend The Board is committed to delivering consistent returns for our shareholders and to this end continues with its progressive dividend policy to grow the Group dividend by 4% above ination per annum up to at least the end of 2014 15.
This reects our confidence that Pennon Group remains well positioned to deliver strong growth in the medium and long-term.
We are recommending a final dividend per share of 18.30p, which represents a 6.7% increase on last years final dividend.
This will Ken Harvey result in a total dividend for the year of 26.52p, an increase of Chairman, Pennon Group Plc 7.6% reecting ination of 3.6% on the total dividend for 2010 11.
We will also once again offer a Scrip Dividend Alternative to shareholders in respect of the final dividend.
The timetable for the Scrip Dividend Alternative is given on page 113. Business performance South West Water continued its strong operational performance against the 2010-2015 regulatory contract with further advances in operating efficiency and customer service.
The company is frontend loading delivery of the operating cost efficiencies required by Revenue profit before tax Ofwat an average 2.8% per annum over the five-year period with m m an average 5.1% per annum delivered in the first two years.
These efficiencies are being achieved through improving operational ways of working, right-sourcing and innovative contracting arrangements, energy procurement and reduced usage, and the rationalisation of administration and support services.
Viridor grew its profits from recycling, contracts and joint ventures, offset by a reduction in the contribution from landll plus increased bid costs associated with its developing project pipeline.
Recyclate prices fell in the second half of 2011 12 compared with the first half year peak, reecting world economic conditions.
More than 50% of the impact was mitigated by actions taken by Viridor to address costs and, although we are cautious about the prospect for a recovery in recyclate prices in the short-term, Viridors growing Public Private Partnership PPP pipeline and energy from waste EfW planning successes will form the basis for future growth.
Renewable energy generation will also remain a significant contributor to profits.
1,233.1m 200.5m 6.4% 6.4% 4 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2007 08 879.4 2008 09 958.2 2009 10 1,068.9 2010 11 1,159.2 2011 12 1,233.1 2007 08 152.3 2008 09 159.4 2009 10 185.8 2010 11 188.5 2011 12 200.5 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Health and safety Our customers A key priority for both our businesses is providing the highest We continue to focus on the safety and well-being of all our possible levels of services to our customers.
This is also reected employees.
There have been a number of initiatives during the in our Group strategy.
year, such as our TAP Think, Act, Prevent behavioural safety campaign for Pennon and South West Water staff and Viridors Over the year South West Water has successfully moved into Safety Information Database, both of which are designed to new territory in meeting the demand for information, advice ensure high standards of safety across the businesses.
We are and assistance from its household and business customers.
pleased to see a reduction in the reportable number of incidents The Source for Business service is providing extra support for within both South West Water and Viridor.
The Board, together commercial customers.
South West Water is now providing online with the Boards of South West Water and Viridor, remains accounts, a smartphone app and web-based services for all committed to fostering a culture and working environment where customers.
The company recognises that affordability is an issue accidents are unacceptable.
The Groups goal is zero accidents.
for a number of our customers and we continue to provide advice Sustainability and governance and assistance through a number of schemes.
Our businesses demonstrate a responsible approach to Within Viridor there is a particular need to meet the changing environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
This was requirements of our customers where the focus is increasingly on recognised when we received the prestigious Achievement in recycling, energy recovery and the reduction of waste to landll to Sustainability award at the annual PLC Awards for our sustainable meet Government targets.
The fact that around 50% of Viridors activities which include renewable energy generation at waste profits are now from recovering the value in waste demonstrates water treatment works, landll gas control and significant funding that Viridor is living up to its new branding transforming waste.
being provided for community and environmental projects through Our employees the Pennon Environmental Fund and Viridor Credits Environmental We know that our success continues to be due to the talent, Body.
The Business review and our Group Sustainability report set commitment and hard work of our employees, and I would like out more fully our commitment to ESG and the highlights during to thank every one of them for their outstanding contribution to the year which include carbon reduction, water security, water the Group.
catchment management and resource security and efficiency.
In addition I am very grateful to my Board colleagues for their The Board has an annual programme which is focused on continuing support and significant contribution to another continuing to develop and improve our governance structures successful year.
This ensures that we apply best practice to enable Outlook us to operate in the best interests of our shareholders and other The Boards priority continues to be the creation of shareholder stakeholders.
value through its strategic focus on water and sewerage services, Our business model recycling, renewable energy and waste management.
One of our key objectives is to ensure that we are at the forefront South West Water has continued its excellent start to K5 with of company reporting.
Overleaf we have set out our business robust operational delivery, high standards of customer service model to assist shareholders in understanding how we generate and a strong financial performance.
and preserve value in our businesses.
I hope it is a useful introduction to this years Business review and succinctly explains Viridor is successfully leading the way in exploiting opportunities how our business strategy is followed through into action.
arising from the Governments landll diversion, recycling and renewable energy targets around 50% of its profits already come Diversity from recovering value in waste.
Although we are cautious about The Board is committed to promoting equality and diversity and a the prospect for a recovery in recyclate prices in the short-term, culture that actively values difference and recognises that people the companys strong PPP pipeline and major EfW successes from different backgrounds and experiences can bring valuable underpin its expected long-term profit momentum from 2013 14 insights to the workplace at all levels and enhance the way we onwards and are already making a significant contribution to work.
We have an established Workplace Policy which provides Viridors profitability.
for equal opportunity and diversity throughout the Group.
In support of this policy and of the recommendations of the Davies I am therefore confident that Pennon is well positioned to continue Review Women on Boards, the Board has also established to succeed in its chosen business areas for the benefit of our a Boardroom Equality & Diversity Policy.
We will endeavour to shareholders and other stakeholders.
achieve a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board by 2015 whilst maintaining our current 14% representation in the meantime and achieve a minimum of 25% female representation in our senior management team by 2015.
Board succession Two of our three Non-executive Directors are coming towards the end of their nine-year tenure.
The Board wishes to ensure a Ken Harvey seamless transition and does not wish to lose the considerable Chairman knowledge and experience of the departing Directors, particularly Pennon Group Plc as it is satisfied that they remain independent in character and 18 June 2012 judgement while continuing in their role on the Board.
It is therefore intended that Dinah Nichols will retire from the Board at the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM and Gerard Connell, the Senior Independent Director, will retire from the Board at the 2014 AGM.
The search for one new Non-executive Director is well under way and a further Non-executive Director will be sought during 2013.
This process will ensure that the new members, of what is a small board, are fully acquainted with the Companys practices and procedures before the two retiring Non-executive Directors leave the Board.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Directors report Business review Our business model How we generate and preserve value Our Group business model is driven by our strategy of promoting the success of the Group for the benefit of our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders through our focus on the business areas of water and sewerage services, recycling, renewable energy generation and waste management.
We aim to be a pre-eminent provider of customer services to high standards of quality, efficiency and reliability, and to provide value for our shareholders.
How we create value We create value for our shareholders by developing our two environmental utility infrastructure businesses, South West Water and Viridor, and by efficient nancing and strong management of the Group as a whole.
South West Water, the water and sewerage services Viridor is focused on transforming waste into a provider for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset resource, having developed from being a traditional and Somerset, is focused on delivering further waste management company to a leading UK efficiencies, improving operating standards and recycling, renewable energy and resource providing a high quality service to its customers.
South West Water Viridor Provides water and sewerage services in Devon, One of the leading UK recycling, renewable energy Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
South West Waters business model is based Viridors business model is based on growing and adding on delivering its Pure Water, Pure Service value by proactively expanding its recycling operations, and Pure Environment strategy while ensuring growing its EfW and PPP operations and exploiting the long-term profitability, resilience and sustainability.
huge potential inherent in waste-based renewable energy generation, whilst capitalising in the long-term on its strong position in landll waste disposal.
6 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements How we manage our businesses to create value To achieve our strategy we are focused on the key areas of customer satisfaction, financial performance, maximising shareholder returns, strong governance and employee engagement.
Customer Financial Maximising Strong Employee satisfaction performance shareholder governance engagement returns Both South West Water and Our Group has set itself We are committed to We are aware that our We are aware that the Viridor are fully committed challenging financial targets.
maximising shareholder businesses can, and do, success of our Group is due to meeting the needs of Financial performance is returns, including our policy have a material impact to the talent, commitment their customers which measured through a range of to grow the Group dividend on the environment and and hard work of our are key to the success of key performance indicators by 4% above ination per communities in which employees and we aim to each business.
How we including profit before tax, annum up to at least the they operate.
We take a be a responsible employer.
respond to the needs of dividend per share, earnings end of 2014 15. responsible and transparent We are focused on ensuring our customers and assess per share before deferred approach to environmental, workforce well-being, customer satisfaction is set tax and the interest rate on social and governance ESG continuity, efficiency and out on pages 15, 17, 22 and average net debt.
Our sustainable productivity and we carefully 36 of the Business review.
on setting such targets practices not only benefit manage the successful is to achieve sustainable communities, but also enable integration of employees into performance over the short, our businesses to be more Viridor following acquisitions.
More information More information on the Pages 24 to 27 explain in on our sustainability targets initiatives we have introduced more detail our financial and our achievements over to improve employee performance.
the past twelve months are engagement in each of our set out on pages 34 to 39 businesses is set out on in the Groups Sustainability pages 17, 23, 40 and 41 of report.
Our operating framework and risk management Essential to achieving our strategic aims and creating value within our businesses is our operating framework which is based on the principles of good governance as described in the Governance section.
Our operating framework includes a comprehensive and fully embedded risk management process which assists us in managing our risks and opportunities to deliver the Groups strategy and the other essential elements of our business model.
Further information on our control and risk management environment is described on page 30.
Our principal risks and uncertainties and how we mitigate them are set out on pages 28 to 33.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
