Directors report Business review Sustainability report continued the provision of these facilities in integrated waste management contracts.
It subsequently looks to recover energy from nonThe Waste Hierarchy recyclable and residual wastes using energy from waste and anaerobic digestion technologies to offset fossil-fuel based energy generation.
Waste Prevention During the year Viridor continued to increase its recycling capacity & Reuse through both acquisition and organic growth, recycling 2.3 million tonnes of material 2.1 million tonnes in 2010 11, with 1.8 million Recycling being traded recyclates 1.7 million tonnes in 2010 11.
Composting Key social issues Commitment to communities Energy Pennon Group recognises that it is part of, and has a Recovery responsibility towards, the communities in which it operates and it strengthened its community relations and investment policy during the year.
It aims to ensure that business activities have Treatment & overall positive community benets.
The Group recognises the Disposal importance of developing open and transparent engagement with communities and other organisations and its employees take part in a range of volunteer projects.
Sponsorships and partnerships with community organisations also help deliver on our commitment in this important area, such as the Keep Britain Tidy BeachCare initiative.
Bathing water quality is vitally important to local communities and visitors across the region.
Since privatisation in 1989, South West Water has invested 2 billion in 140 new waste water treatment works via our Clean Sweep programme.
As a result 98.6% of our 144 EU-designated bathing waters now meet or exceed the EUs Good standard compared with 96.5% in 2010 and 95.1% are deemed Excellent compared with 90.3% in 2010.
In 2011 South West Water launched its BeachLive website.
This award-winning initiative was developed in partnership with Surfers Against Sewage and others, and enables beach users to check real-time bathing water information at 21 Blue Flag or popular beaches in Devon and Cornwall every day.
The number of beaches covered is being extended in 2012 13.
The investment required to deliver the bathing water improvements has resulted in higher bills than in other regions.
The company understands that some customers have problems paying, and has developed an industry-leading Affordability Toolkit comprising a range of practical measures, including a free debt helpline, payment plans, and water meter and water conservation advice.
Its WaterCare scheme hashelped its 10,000th customer since it was established in 2007.
The company has also established a FreshStart fund of up to 1million, administered by Plymouth Citizens Advice Bureaux CAB, to help those in financial crisis due to circumstances such as bereavement.
South West Water partners with charities and agencies such as local Citizens Advice Bureaux and Age UK to nd and help those in the most need.
Our work in this area was recognised in the CAB publication, How to do the Right Thing.
The company is supporting the business community by Top: Billingshurst household waste recycling centre, West Sussex.
sponsoring local Battle the Bills sessions which help up to 1,000 small and medium-sized businesses by offering advice on water Bottom: Customer service at a Viridor household waste and energy use.
36 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Governance Financial statements Challenging economic conditions lead Viridors local authority and business customers to scrutinise costs and demand value for money in all aspects of service.
Economic drivers such as the Landll Tax, public and private sector procurement practices, as well as Viridors customer service partnerships and provision of waste audits, ensure that the company remains keenly competitive for the benefit of its customers.
In 2011 12 Viridor via an independent distributive Environmental Body, Viridor Credits provided 10.3 million of funding for community, amenity and environmental projects in areas close to its landll facilities through the Landll Communities Fund.
The company also provides direct sponsorship and community support in its operational areas.
Viridor has active community liaison groups at all of its major operational facilities, ensuring effective dialogue with local community representatives.
It also consults extensively with local communities and stakeholders when looking to develop new St Helens waste electricals recycling facility.
facilities, in order to keep people informed and to enable their full involvement in the planning process.
During the year Viridor opened another two education centres in Greater Manchester, helping to promote understanding and best practice in waste For four years, South West Water has worked closely alongside prevention, recycling, recovery and resource management.
The MPs of all parties and consumer groups to press the South Wests company now operates or supports 10 such centres across the case at the highest levels.
In November 2011 the Chancellor of the UK and welcomed more than 13,000 visitors during the year.
Exchequer confirmed that the Government will be reducing the Viridor and South West Water are responsible for the management annual bills of household customers in the companys service area and stewardship of substantial landholdings, particularly at by 50 each, until at least 2020. reservoirs and landll sites, including 26 closed landll sites and 17 During the year South West Water embarked on a comprehensive Sites of Special scientific Interest.
These areas can have significant research and engagement programme with customers, benets and the companies work in partnership with the Wildlife community and environmental representatives as part of its Trusts, local communities and employees to enhance biodiversity.
preparation for the 2015-2020 business plan and price setting.
Five Viridor sites have now attained the Wildlife Trusts Biodiversity The WaterFuture Customer Panel has been established to assist Benchmark standard, with one awaiting accreditation.
Three sites with this process.
of low biodiversity have been identied for five-year improvement Commitment to employees plans and a biodiversity strategy covering all sites will be Employees are at the heart of the work we undertake at Pennon developed during 2012 13.
South West Waters reservoir sites Group.
Aiming for best practice in recruitment, training and are managed by the South West Lakes Trust, the regions largest development, talent management, health and well-being, retention combined environmental and recreational charity, which delivers and succession planning is therefore of crucial importance for the a wide range of facilities, such as visitor centres and watersports health and sustainability of the business.
These amenities attract around two million visits every to be good employers and recognise that employees make the year.
Four agship sites have received the gold standard in the difference which helps us to achieve our corporate goals.
Green Tourism Business Schemes prestigious awards.
Both subsidiaries have a range of family friendly policies, equal Engaging with other stakeholders opportunity policies and policies to ensure a healthy work-life Pennon and its subsidiaries aim to be open and collaborative, balance.
The companies undertake regular employee surveys fostering positive relationships with stakeholders and delivering to obtain feedback on employee satisfaction and to identify key long-term benets and added-value.
South West Waters Chief issues for improvement.
Viridor conducted a survey in 2011 12 Executive has just completed four years as Chair of Water UK.
focusing in particular on its health and safety culture.
This showed He is now Chair of the Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Local Enterprise good levels of employee satisfaction and identied important areas Partnership, and the Vice President of the Institute of Water.
for improvement including internal communications, procedures Viridors Chief Executive is currently Chair of the Governments and training.
Employee representation is facilitated through trade Living with Environmental Change Business Advisory Board and union membership and, for South West Water, by an elected of the Environmental Sustainability Knowledge Transfer Network.
Both companies inform Government policy in respect of pertinent A safe and healthy workforce will always be a priority for the industry issues.
For Viridor in 2011 12 this included liaison and Pennon Group.
Group companies health and safety policies and responses to consultations on the Waste Policy Review for procedures are delivered through programmes which integrate England and Wales, Scotlands Zero Waste Plan and regulation, with other areas of the business including operations, compliance, and the London Waste Strategies.
Viridors OpenSpace human resources and quality.
For example South West Water innovative data-sharing portal has been developed with the introduced its Think, Act, Prevent TAP campaign in 2011, which Environment Agency in England, meeting their better regulation delivered behavioural safety training to its employees.
This ground-breaking project to supply environmental incident rates in both companies reduced during the year, monitoring data live to the regulator has substantial cost and although neither company is complacent and zero accidents resource saving potential going forward.
The 2009 Walker Review highlighted the huge environmental Pennon encourages talented people to join the Group, and to stay, costs water customers in the South West of England, making up by matching the right people to the right roles and by ensuring just 3% of the UK population, have been paying for the clean-up professional development opportunities throughout their careers and protection of 30% of the nations bathing waters since 1989. within the Group.
We have a range of training programmes aimed Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
