Directors report Business review South West Water continued Private sewers On 1 October 2011 the Government transferred the ownership of the majority of private sewers to water and sewerage companies.
As a result South West Waters sewer network increased by over 50%.
This had a knock-on benefit for the majority of our customers who are no longer at risk of high sewer maintenance costs and are now only responsible for drains located within and serving their properties.
South West Water is continuing to evaluate the impact of the private sewer transfer.
We are confident that our smooth transition into the new role was the result of careful planning, an effective communications strategy and efficient operational activity.
50 bill reduction for South West Water customers Since privatisation in 1989 South West Water customers have effectively been paying for the protection and upkeep of a third of the nations bathing waters.
Highlighted in the 2009 Walker Review and pursued vigorously by South West Water alongside regional MPs, consumer groups and media organisations, this sensitive regional issue was addressed by the Government in late 2011, with a pledge to reduce household bills in the region by 50 per year.
This reduction is due to come into effect in April 2013.
Pure Environment 2011 12 was a year of continued investment in environmental projects and initiatives.
In addition to the refurbishment of a number of waste water treatment works South West Water has successfully trialled grit and screenings composting to reduce the amount of waste sent to landll.
We also expanded our use of renewable energy through solar, wind and hydro power schemes at more than 20 of our sites and we continue to promote energy saving through in-house campaigns such as PowerDown.
Coastal waters The quality of beaches and bathing waters in the South West plays a key role in the regions economy, culture and lifestyle.
With 144 designated bathing waters along more than 500 miles of coastline, South West Waters activities have a potential effect on more bathing waters than any other water company in England orWales.
The number of bathing waters in our region now achieving the EUs highest standard is at an all time high.
95.1% of our beaches are achieving the EU Guideline standard excellent status with Top: South West Waters bathing water results reached a record 98.6% obtaining the Mandatory standard good status.
South West Water continues to work with a number of partner Bottom: Joe Colton-Dyer, one of South West Waters new organisations to protect the coastal environment.
the company launched its BeachLive website to provide live information on bathing water quality around the region.
Energy generation In 2011 12 our investment in renewable energy included the installation of solar panels at 23 of our sites nineteen 50kW schemes and four 100kW schemes and the development of hydro-electric schemes at Colliford Dam, Cornwall and Avon Dam, Devon.
16 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements WaterFuture customer panel Our continuing focus for K5 As part of the 2014 Periodic Review process, following guidance from Ofwat, we have created an independent WaterFuture is to strike the right balance customer challenge panel, comprising a group of representatives from various regulatory, stakeholder and public bodies.
Its role in for customers, investors and the coming year will be to ensure our business plan adequately reects an understanding of our customers priorities and that our other stakeholders.
planned activities are socially, economically and environmentally sustainable.
Procurement and suppliers Our procurement strategy is focused on partnering and strategic At Lowermoor water treatment works in North Cornwall we alliances with 60 key suppliers who account for the large erected a single 100kW wind turbine which is expected to majority of expenditure.
We include all aspects of sustainability generate approximately 60% of the sites power needs.
in our procurement processes and this is a central theme of our Our goal is to generate 30GWh from renewable sources by 2015. procurement strategy for our supply chains and support of the Ultimately South West Water aims to source 50% of its energy regional economy.
With the start of the K5 regulatory period we from renewables by 2050. introduced an innovative mixed economy model to source our Upstream Thinking capital programme.
This means using a significant number of Focused on improving raw water quality in river catchments in smaller local contractors to provide specialised services as well order to reduce treatment costs, Upstream Thinking is an awardas developing long-term relationships with more major supply winning South West Water-led initiative that seeks to maintain and chain partners.
No supplier revenue accounts for more than 5% improve the ecological health of our regions river network.
of the companys revenue and South West Water sources all its purchases from competitive markets.
During 2011 12 South West Water has continued to work with partner organisations, the agricultural community, landowners, Looking ahead researchers from the regions universities and other stakeholders In December 2011 the Water for Life White Paper outlined to implement a range of projects that target water quality the Governments vision for a resilient, customer-focused and and water storage at its natural source.
These include farm environmentally sustainable water sector.
South West Water management improvements and engagement with farmers: welcomed this commitment from Government and we believe that habitat management: and landscape restoration in specic river both our long-term strategy and successes to date are already catchment areas.
making headway in realising these ambitions.
In March 2012 Upstream Thinking won the Partnership Initiative The company has delivered substantial efficiencies which of the Year category at the Water Industry Achievement Awards.
benefit all stakeholders and is focusing on continued delivery of efficiencies while satisfying regulatory and legislative obligations Our employees and improving services to customers.
specifically the strategy: South West Water attaches considerable value to the safety and training needs and ambitions of its employees.
t targets outperformance of the regulatory contract In addition to rigorous attention to health and safety, the company t continues to rigorously control costs provides thorough training and support with opportunities for staff t delivers investment in the asset base to secure improvements to develop their careers through a number of schemes.
These made over the last 20 plus years while preparing for the next include our internal graduate development programme GROW 20 plus years.
The company is working towards the next Price Review, PR14, South West Water is a key player in the local economy and we and is actively engaged in the development of Ofwats regulatory remain committed to nurturing fresh talent for the future.
2011 12 our apprenticeship scheme has gathered momentum We have already rolled out our initial phases of customer and our strategic investment in both people and technology in engagement and work is under way to determine investment the form of our centrally-operated remote PUROS system and scenarios for the next period.
other innovations means we are reaping the rewards of improved Our WaterFuture customer challenge panel will assist in ensuring productivity delivered by a highly trained and motivated workforce.
customers priorities are kept central to our plans.
The panels Key relationships involvement will help shape our forthcoming Strategic Direction Regulators and others Statement which will provide a long-term context for the next South West Water actively engages with a wide range of business plan.
We take steps to ensure that communication is handled in the most appropriate way and that the information we provide is high quality and consistent.
We use a range of commercial channels including traditional and online platforms to communicate with our stakeholders.
The company contributes to national policy on developing issues through its membership of Water UK, the industry trade body, and we work with the Consumer Council for Water to ensure that customers issues and concerns are addressed and a full understanding of the companys activities is maintained.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Directors report Business review Viridor Investing for future growth Key facts and gures 2011 12 operational highlights: Revenue profit before tax m m t profit before tax decreased by 8.4% to 57.6 million, with performance less strong in the second half of 2011 12 than in the first half of the year reecting world economic conditions t contribution to profits of recovering the value in waste grew to around 50%, as landll fell to 18% from 69% in 2001 t volumes of recyclate traded increased by 7.2% to over 1.8million tonnes, with continuing improvements in quality and value mix t total renewable energy productionincreased to 760GWh 752GWh 2010 11 t revenue increased by 6.9% to 761.1 million t capital expenditure and investment in joint ventures of 140 million mainly to deliver additional renewable power generation and recycling capacity.
2011 12 notable achievements: t acquisition of five high-quality recycling, collection and transport businesses for around 40 million, strategically sited to complement existing UK operations and international recyclatesales 761.1m 57.6m t announced as preferred bidder for South London, Glasgow and 6.9% -8.4% South Lanarkshire PPP contracts, and one of last two bidders for five others t by the year-end 39 of the 43 new facilities for the Greater Manchester joint venture PFI contract were operational t phases one and two of the construction of thecombined heat and power CHP energy from waste EfW plant at Runcorn onschedule Where we operate t construction commenced on Ardley Oxfordshire and Exeter EfW projects and on Walpole anaerobic digestion facility in Somerset t construction contract signed on Cardiff EfW project and final planning consent achieved on Avonmouth EfW and recyclingfacility t Lakeside joint venture EfW plant, near Heathrow airport, announced as winner of 2011 Chartered Institution of Wastes Management Peel Peoples Cup for best run waste management facility in the UK, and of EfW Facility of the Year and Best Designed Renewable Energy Facility at the UK Renewable Infrastructure Awards.
Viridors network of recycling, renewable energy and waste management operations is strategically located across the UK, with particular strengths in the South West: South East and North West of England, East Anglia, South East Wales, and Central Scotland.
The company sells its high-quality recyclate in the UK and internationally, with established relationships across Europe and in Asian countries including China, Indonesia and India.
18 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2007 08 455.1 2008 09 528.0 2009 10 626.5 2010 11 712.0 2011 12 761.1 2007 08 34.2 2008 09 39.9 2009 10 55.1 2010 11 62.9 2011 12 57.6 Viridor Group Governance Financial statements 327 34 8.1 operating facilities landll gas power plants million tonnes of material handled in 2011 12 25 3 materials recycling facilities MRFs energy from waste EfW plants Strategy and performance transforming waste 7JSJEPS T TUSBUFHZ JT UP BEE WBMVF CZ O UIF TIPSU UFSN 7JSJEPS T OBODJBM QFSGPSNBODF XJMM DPOUJOVF UP CF JOVFODFE CZ USFOET JO r HSPXJOH SFDZDMJOH DBQBDJUZ BOE TFSWJDFT recycling and landfill.
"r HSPXJOH FOFSHZ GSPN XBTUF DBQBDJUZ BOE Recycling remains a very profitablebusiness services for Viridor and the roll-out of its EfW pipeline r TFMFDUJWFMZ HBJOJOH NPSF 111 DPOUSBDUT PQFSBUJPOT DPNNFODJOH POXBSET r DBQJUBMJTJOH PO JUT MPOH UFSN TUSPOH QPTJUJPO DPVME NPSF UIBO EPVCMF &# 5%"" XJUIJO WF in the landfill market."
7JSJEPS DPOTPMJEBUFE JUT QPTJUJPO BT UIF 6, T largest operator of materials recycling facilities.
3'T JO 5IF DPNQBOZ NBEF WF further acquisitions of recycling, collection and transfer businesses during the year.
Strategy Transforming waste: to grow Viridors recycling capacity and services Performance Performance Volumes of traded recyclate increased by 7.2% with continuing Runcorn, Exeter and Ardley EfW facilities and Walpole AD plant improvement in quality and value mix.
Revenue per tonne was under construction.
Construction contract signed for Cardiff EfW up 6.8% year on year although prices fell back in the second half plant.
Total power generation output increased to 760GWh of the year.
