GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 1 Paul Walker 3 Oliver Slipper 5 Peter Williams Non-Executive Chairman Joint Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Paul Walker was appointed to the Board Oliver Slipper was appointed to the in January 2011 as the Companys NonBoard in August 2007.
He was the chief Peter Williams was appointed to the Executive Chairman.
Paul served as chief executive officer of Premium TV until Board in March 2011.
Peter was finance executive officer of The Sage Group its amalgamation with Inform Group in director of Daily Mail and General Plc from 1994 to September 2010.
Oliver joined Trustplc DMGT from 1991 until March has been a non-executive director of Premium TV in 2001 as commercial 2011.
During his time with DMGT, he Experian plc since June 2010 and a manager.
In 2005, Oliver was appointed served as a non-executive director of non-executive director of Diageo Plc chief executive officer.
Prior to Premium Bristol Evening Post plc, GWR Group since June 2002.
He is currently chair of TV, Oliver worked at Accenture within the plc subsequently Gcap Media plc and the Newcastle Science City Partnership media and entertainment team, where Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
He is and is a director of the Entrepreneurs he worked for clients including Cable also a trustee and Investment Committee Forum.
Paul previously served as a non- & Wireless, NTL and Sony Playstation chairman of the DMGT Pension Funds, a executive director ofMyTravel Group advising on digital strategies.
Oliver holds non-executive director of Ibis Media VCT1 Plc from December 2000 to December a BA Hons in Classical Studies from plc and a trustee of the Royal Academy.
Paul qualied as a chartered Manchester University.
accountant at Ernst & Young, having 6 Marc Brown graduated from York University with 4 David Surtees Independent Non-Executive Director aneconomics degree.
Chief Financial Officer Marc Brown was appointed to the Board 2 Simon Denyer David Surtees was appointed to the in March 2011.
Marc has been a member Joint Chief Executive Officer Board in March 2011.
David joined of Microsofts Corporate Development the Company at the start of 2008 Group since joining the company in Simon Denyer was appointed to the from Shine, one of the UKs leading January 2000.
Currently he is a General Board in September 2007.
The founder independent television producers, Manager, Corporate Development and of Inform Group in 2004, Simon was its where he had been chief financial officer Global Head of M&A and Strategic managing director until its amalgamation since April 2002.
Prior to Shine, David Investments.
Prior to joining Microsoft, with Premium TV in 2007 to create worked at Carlton Productions for two Marc practised corporate law at a rm Perform.
Prior to Inform Group, Simon was years and the BBC for six years.
David in Boston, was a high school teacher head of digital rights at IMG, sales director qualied as a chartered accountant and coach and an investment banker at Sportal and started his career in sports with Price Waterhouse in 1993.
He holds a JD degree from media at Haymarket Publishing.
He has holds a BSc Hons in Geography from Georgetown University Law Center, an worked with major sports rights holders in BristolUniversity.
MBA in finance from New York University the exploitation of their digital media rights and a bachelor of arts in economics from for the past 12 years.
Simon holds a BA Colgate University.
Hons in Economics and Geography from Loughborough University.
44 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O O OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST T TA A ATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 1 2 7 Jrg Mohaupt Non-Executive Director 3 4 Jrg Mohaupt was appointed to the Board when Access Industries acquired a majority stake in the Company in July 2007.
Jrg is responsible for the media online and telecom businesses at Access Industries, which he joined in May 2007.
He was previously a managing director of Providence Equity Partners.
Jrg has been active in the media and communications space since 1992.
Jrgs current board positions include Tory Burch LLC, Rebate Networks GmbH, 5 6 AINMT Holdings AB, RGE Group Limited, Icon UK Distribution Holdings Limited and Mendeley Research Networks.
Prior board positions include Digiturk, Casema NV, Comhem AB, Bibit BV, VersaTel Telecom NV and Speedera Networks Inc. 8 Peter Parmenter Independent Non-Executive Director Peter Parmenter was appointed to the Board in December 2011.
Peter is 7 8 Head of New Platforms and OEM at EA Interactive, a division of Electronic Arts, a global leader in digital interactive entertainment.
Prior to joining EA, Peter held positions at EMI Records, Hutchison Telecoms and the Bertelsmann Group.
Peter is vice-chair of the Mobile Entertainment Forum.
9 Gabby Logan Independent Non-Executive Director 9 Gabby Logan was appointed to the Board in December 2012.
Gabby is one of Britains leading sports journalists.
She was appointed as a non-executive director in December 2012 Through the course of her extensive career in sports, Gabby has worked for broadcasters including Sky Sports, the BBC, ITVand Channel 5 covering the biggest sporting events around the world.
Her current commitments include BBC Sport: Matchof the Day, Final Score and SixNations Rugby.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
