OVERVIEW Vision and growth strategy The Groups vision is to become the leading global digital sports media company by delivering vestrategic growth drivers Strategic drivers Enhance digital sports Expand Grow rights portfolio geographically audience Compelling content is at the heart Since 2008 the Groups strategy has been With its wholly and majority owned ofthe Groups products and services to expand its business geographically websites, including Goal, Spox and and ultimately drives the Groups both organically and through acquisition, Mackolik, and its ePlayer network the revenues and profitability.
The Groups reducing the Groups dependence on a Group has actively sought to grow its rights buying strategy is to expand its small number of territories, in particular audience and increase the size of its rights portfolio by securing exclusive the United Kingdom, and being able to Direct to Consumer sourced revenues.
live video rights to distribute on the take advantage of opportunities in new This direct access to consumers allows Watch&Bet service, by securing markets.
In 2012 this strategy has involved improved engagement, better product exclusive live video rights in selected the targeted launch of 16 new editions development and improved and more markets and across selected platforms of Goal and the investment in new and targeted monetisation.
tv and existing ePlayer territories with the acquiring video-on-demand clip rights ePlayer being launched in Argentina, In 2012, advertising became a for distribution across the ePlayer and Canada, Netherlands and Norway and significant part of the Groups Omnisport suite of products.
significant investment in rights and business.
The driver to advertising advertising sales teams in Italy, Spain growth is audience growth, a KPI In 2013, the Group will continue and the US.
A the expansion of its rights portfolio number of key tactics are used to in anticipation of Watch&Bet rights The Group will launch further editions deliver audience growth including renewals during 2013 and also perform of Goal with a view to having a local search engine optimisation, social a full re-launch of its Content Distribution edition for every participating nation marketing and integration, new products for the betting and media in the 2014 World Cup.
languages, new platforms and user sectors.
A dedicated In addition the Group will continue to team of digital market analysts is In addition the Group will continue increase the number of advertising sales charged with continuing to deliver to enhance its editorial output and offices and staff to enhance growth audience growth.
expand the production of live data and in 2013 will look to establish its own via the RunningBall scout network.
in house advertising sales teams in the US and Japan.
12 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 2013 Pursue complementary Launch on new Investment for strategic acquisitions digital platforms futuregrowth The Group has three categories The Groups strategy is to develop 2014 will be an exciting year for the oftarget acquisition: products and delivery solutions Group with the FIFA World Cup acting for all digital platforms including as a major catalyst for advertising spend Local Champions: strong single smartphones, tablets, gaming and the start of a new Watch&Bet territory digital sports media consoles and connected TVs.
businesses that are similar in increased market penetration of theirproduct or service offering such devices and the increased To fully capitalise on these and other tothe Group.
consumption of media on such opportunities, major investment is Direct to Consumer platforms: devices allow consumers better and currently underway in the following areas: local or global sports portals and easier access to the Groups content destination sports websites.
In addition, the Group New versions of Goal and Livesport.
tv Complementary Products: digital recognises that social networks such are being launched across all platforms sports products such as sports as Facebook and Twitter and video and there will be a significant expansion data, social gaming and fantasy.
sharing sites such as YouTube are of the Goal offering.
equally as important as hardware The re-launch of the Groups Content For all acquistions by leveraging the platforms and the development of Distribution betting and media products.
Groups content portfolio, international products and delivery solutions for sales teams and technology platform these networks is also a key part of The enhancement of the Groups revenue growth and profitability can the Groups strategy.
production and news gathering facilities be maximised.
to increase the quality and the quantity In 2013, the Group will launch new of output.
In 2012 the Group acquired versions of Goal and Livesport.
tv Expansion of the rights portfolio in RunningBall, Mackolik and Sportal.
across all platforms, including a full anticipation of Watch&Bet rights re-brand of Goal and a significant renewals during 2013.
In addition the Group has a strong expansion of the Goal offering in balance sheet with cash of 34 million preparation for the 2014 World Cup.
Increasing the number of advertising and net funds of 26 million and sales offices and staff to further grow continues to consider acquisitions this sector including the establishment that could further its expansion.
of in house advertising sales teams in Japan and US.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
