OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW Growth strategy Pursue complementary strategic acquisitions The Group has three categories of target Group products such as Watch&Bet and acquisition: or WatchandTrade.
40% more matches Strategy in action were delivered in the post-acquisition Local Champions: strong single territory period than in the comparative period in digital sports media businesses that 2011 and the number of sports covered Acquisition for 120 million of leading real time sports data are similar in their product or service increased from four to six with darts and provider RunningBall offering to Perform, typically with local ice-hockey launched post acquisition.
user traffic, advertising sales capability In addition a further two sports will be Post acquisition increased number and a range of technology and content launched in 2013. of RunningBall customers taking distribution clients, and that have not the service by cross selling to the been able to expand beyond their core On 30 June 2012 the Group acquired an Groups existing customers market.
initial 51% stake in Mackolik which owns Majority stake acquired for 14.5 Direct to Consumer platforms: local and and operates a number of Turkeys leading million in leading Turkish digital global sports portals and destination independent sports websites, including sports media company Mackolik sports websites to grow the Groups mackolik.
com, and is wholly owned user base and audience the market leader in digital sports media Integrated the Turkish ePlayer Complementary Products: digital sports in Turkey, one of the worlds most exciting intothe Mackolik business.
Postacquisition users in Turkey products such as sports data, social growth territories.
increased by 53% compared to gaming and fantasy.
thepre acquisition period in 2012 The Turkish Goal edition and Turkish For all acquisitions by leveraging the ePlayer were integrated into Mackolik German, sports portal Sportal.
fide Groups content portfolio, international and are now better monetising traffic.
acquired for 1.2 million sales teams and technology platform January 2013 Turkish Goal unique users revenue growth and profitability can were 942,000 compared to 452,000 in Subsequent to the year-end, acquired Voetbalzone for initial bemaximised.
Average monthly Turkish consideration of 2 million.
ePlayer unique users post acquisition were In May 2012 the Group completed 23 million in 2012, an increase of 53% 8 the acquisition of RunningBall adding million on pre-acquisition average unique delivery of best-in-class live sports users of 15 million in 2012 and an increase data to the Groups existing live video, of 47% 7 million on 2011 average unique video-on-demand and editorial content users of 16 million.
In 2012 RunningBall produced real-time data coverage of over 49,000 Both acquisitions have delivered sporting events including over 30,000 strong financial performance following football matches, producing over 1,000 acquisition.
items of data for each match.
It currently engages more than 1,100 scouts in over 70 Subsequent to the year-end the Group countries to gather real-time information acquired Voetbalzone, the number one on live sports events.
Seven new independent sports site in the Netherlands customers took a RunningBall service post with over 650,000 unique users.
acquisition of whom four also receive other Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
