OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements for the year to31 December 2012. Business Review Perform Group plc is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the year to 31 December 2012 and ofthe position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as aBusiness Review.
The purpose of the Business Review is to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
The Overview and Business and Financial Review sections on pages 1 to 41 report on the activities and results for the year and give an indication of the Companys future developments.
Thesections of the Annual Report referred to above, full the requirements of the Business Review and are incorporated by reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Principal Activities The Companys principal activity during the year was that of the holding Company of a group of digital media companies.
The Group is the market leader in the commercialisation of multimedia sports content across a variety of digital platforms.
Revenue and profit Revenue during the year amounted to151.6 million 2011: 103.2 million.
profit attributable to equity holders of the parent was 12.8 million 2011: 3.1 million.
Dividends The Directors do not recommend that anal dividend is paid 2011: nil.
No interim dividend 2011: nil was paid.
Directors The names and biographical details ofthe Directors holding office at the date of this report are set out on pages 44 and 45 and are incorporated by reference into this report.
At the Annual General Meeting on 16April 2013, Gabby Logan will retire inaccordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, willoffer herself for election.
All the other Directors are subject tore-election annually by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in line with the Companys Articles of Association and provision A.
The separate circular to shareholders incorporating theNotice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out whythe Board believes the Directors should be re-elected, or in the case of Gabby Logan, elected.
Details of the Directors service agreements and letters of appointment are given inthe Remuneration Committee Report on pages 60 to 64.
Directors share interests Directors holdings in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2012 are shown on page 58.
There were no changes to the beneficial interests of the Directors between 31 December 2012 and 20 February 2013.
Details of Executive Directors share schemes are provided in the Directors remuneration report on page 63.
Directors insurance and indemnities The Company maintains Directors andofficers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
Inaccordance with section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity provisions are in place for the Directors and Company Secretary in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted bylaw.
Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of movements in the issued share capital of Perform Group plc are shown in note 24 to the financial statements which is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
The Company has one class ofordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote atgeneral meetings of the Company.
Details ofemployee share schemes areset out in note 26.
No person has anyspecial rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued In May 2012 the Group acquired RunningBall Holding AG via the acquisition of RunningBalls two immediate holding companies for consideration of 120million.
Initial consideration of70million consisted of 20 million in cash, nanced from existing cash resources, and 50 million in the form of 13.5 million new ordinary shares in the Company which were issued to the sellers.
The number of issued shares was based on the average closing mid-market price of the Groups ordinary shares and the average closing mid-point sterling:euro exchange rate over the 30trading days preceding 15 May 2012.
The fair value of the 13.5 million new ordinary shares issued was calculated based on the bid price at the date of acquisition.
Amerger relief reserve has been created to record the excess over nominal value on the issue ofthe shares in relation totheacquisition.
Following the issuance of this equity, andat 31 December 2012 the Company had 238,882,000 Ordinary Shares in issue.
Immediately after the Groups re-registration as a public limited company see below and at 31 December 2011 the Company has 225,376,000 Ordinary Shares in Issue.
In May 2011 the Company re-registered from a private limited company to apublic limited company.
Following a resolution of the Company passed on 7 April 2011 which took effect immediately prior to the Listing of the Companys securities onthe main market of the London Stock Exchange: each of the Companys A Ordinary Shares were subdivided, reclassied and redesignated as 36 new Ordinary Shares: each of the Companys B Ordinary Shares were subdivided, reclassied and redesignated as 36 new Ordinary Shares: each holding of the existing Preference Shares were consolidated into one preference share: these Preference Shares were subdivided, reclassied and redesignated into, in aggregate, 21,132,432 new Ordinary Shares and 1,380,354,048 deferred shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each in the capital of the Company: and the Company allotted a further 28.0 million Ordinary Shares of 2 and 7 9ths penceeach.
The Company received proceeds, netofbank fees and costs, of 69.7 million gross primary proceeds were 72.5 million.
On 21 June 2011 the Company cancelled, atno cost, all of the deferred shares created onListing.
The deferred shares did not entitle the holders to any dividends or distribution and were only able to be transferred by the Company.
Acapital redemption reserve of38.3 million was created asaresult.
The Company does not hold any treasuryshares.
The Company will be subject to the continuing obligations contained in the Listing Rules with regard to the issue of Ordinary Shares for cash.
The provisions of section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption inrespect of the allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, paid up in cash other than by way of allotment toemployees under any employees share scheme as dened in section 1166 of the Act apply to the issue of shares inthe capital of the Company except tothe extent that such provisions were disapplied as set out in the Companys Prospectus.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase, consolidate, or subject to the Act, sub-divide its share capital.
The Company may by ordinary resolution also cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and diminish the amount of its authorised share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, theCompany may by special resolution reduce its share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account in any way.
Subject to the Act and without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of shares, the Company may purchase any ofitsown shares.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company isgoverned by its Articles of Association, the Corporate Governance Code 2010, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution ofthe shareholders.
Under its Articles of Association the Company has authority to issue 10% ordinary shares in any 12 month period.
50 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2012 the Company had been notied under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: Number of Ordinary Shares % of total voting rights Premium TV Group 101,865,876 43% Simon Denyer 26,417,368 11% John Gleasure 12,121,342 5% Hans Thomas Gross 12,830,743 5% Cazenove Capital Management 11,314,863 5% Simon Denyers holding includes 2,334,311 shares held intrust.
John Gleasures holding includes 1,724,167 shares held intrust.
On 5 February 2013 the Company received noticiation from Deutsche Bank AG that it had increased the number of shares held to 6,776,358 representing 3% of the Groups total voting rights.
On 20 February 2013 Deutsche Bank AG subsequently notied the Company that they had decreased the number of shares they held to under 3% of the Groups total voting rights.
During the period between 31 December 2012 and 20 February 2013 the Company did not receive any other notications under chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Interests in own shares The Company does not hold any of its own shares.
The Company operates a Performance Share Plan scheme for its Executive Directors and Senior Management and it also operates a share save scheme open to all its employees.
These schemes are further explained in note 26 to the financial statements.
These awards and schemes will be satisfied by the issue of new shares at the date on which the shares vest.
Charitable donations During the year to 31 December 2012 the Group donated 20,000 to charitable causes including the Childrens Heart Unit Fund, York Against Cancer, the Dove Trust, Sport Relief, SME Trust and Grassroots Soccer.
During the year to 31 December 2011 the Group donated 10,000 to charitable causes including Save The Children, JohnHartsons Foundation, Roger Federers Foundation and Urdd Sports Department, who organise sporting activities for children all over Wales.
Political donations The Company made no political donations during the year.
Employment policies Equal opportunities The Groups policy is always to ensure that all persons are treated fairly irrespective of their age, race including colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins, sexual orientation, disability, gender including gender reassignment, religious beliefs or political opinion, trade union membership or non-membership, marital and physical or mental status or any other factors including pregnancy and maternity.
The Group endeavours toprovide those who have physical ormental disabilities with equal opportunities in the application and recruitment process, andspecic assistance and arrangements including training, career development and promotion arrangements to enable them to work foruswherever and whenever this is reasonably practicable.
Health and Safety The Group is committed to providing aconsistently safe and effective working environment for all staff, including contractors, customers and members ofthe public.
In doing so it will, as a minimum, comply with local health and safety legislation, but will exceed those requirements should it be necessary to do so.
The Group has a Health and Safety Policy available to all employees and applied to the Groups business operations worldwide.
The Health and Safety Policy sets out the organisation and arrangements for achieving and maintaining adequate standards ofhealthand safety at work throughout theGroup.
Overall Group health and safety is the responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer.
Each Executive member of the Group Board is responsible for giving appropriate consideration to the health and safety implications arising out of decisions or proposals made within the remit of their respective areas of corporate responsibility.
For subsidiary companies health and safety is the responsibility of the Managing Directors who will establish appropriate and effective systems andarrangements to ensure compliance and toachieve the corporate objectives.
All employees are expected to exercise personal responsibility in preventing injury to themselves and others and toco-operate withmanagement incomplying with health and safety legislation.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued Employee Involvement Employee communication The Group believes that employee communication is important in building strong relationships with, and in motivating and retaining, employees.
TheGroup makes use of various methods and channels including annual senior management seminars, weekly newsletters, face to face briengs, opendiscussion forums with senior management, team briengs, email and corporate internet to ensure that matters of interest and importance are conveyed to and heard from employees quickly and effectively and that all employees areaware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of theCompany.
The Group has recruited a Chief People Officer CPO who has started in March 2013 and one of the CPOs tasks will be to enhance the Groups communications with its employees.
Employee share schemes The Group recognises the importance ofgood relationships with employees ofall levels.
During 2011 the Group implemented a Performance Share Plan for senior management.
The Group has implemented a share save scheme in 2012.
Details of these plans are set out innote 26 tothe financial statements.
In March 2010, the Group put in place aGrowth Securities Ownership Plan GSOP under which certain key non-shareholding employees were given the opportunity to purchase a financial instrument which tracked the Companys market capitalisation for aperiod which ended inApril2012 being one year after the Groups admission to the London Stock Exchange.
Further details ofthis scheme are set out in note 26 tothe financial statements.
Environmental policy During the year the Group recycled 25,140 kg 2011: 16,040 kg of paper which equated to CO2 savings of 36,050kg 2010: 22,820 kg.
The Group is currently working with Carbon Smart to: measure environmental impacts toreport performance internally, benchmark the organisation and target improvements based onarealisticbaseline: receive support in developing and implementing practical low or no cost actions for improving environmental performance: and assistance in engaging staff to ensure that improved environmental performance becomes part of the everyday work environment.
The Group also introduced a Cycle2Work Scheme in 2012 to offer employees theopportunity to lower the cost of equipment and spread thecost of that equipment.
The scheme is designed toassist those employees looking to consider a more sustainable way of travelling to work.
Financial Instruments In December 2012, just prior to the year-end, the Group entered into a vanilla option which gives the Group the right but not the obligation to sell 2.0 million euros and buy sterling at an exchange rate rate of 1.25 at each of the following settlement dates: 26 April 2013, 29 May 2013, 26 June 2013, 29 July 2013, 28 August 2013, 26 September 2013, 29 October 2013, 27 November 2013 and 27 December 2013.
The cost of this option was 264,000.
The fair value of this option at the year-end was 220,000.
No forward contracts were put in place during 2011 orwere outstanding at 31 December 2011.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are set out within note 21 to the financial statements.
Note 21 also details theGroups exposure to foreign exchange, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form partof this report.
52 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Creditor payment policy For all trade creditors, it is policy to: agree and confirm the terms ofpayment atthe commencement ofbusiness with thatsupplier: pay in accordance with contractual andother legal obligations: and continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers asameans of eliminating difficulties and maintaining agood workingrelationship.
The Companys trade creditors at 31 December 2012 were 392,000 2011: 277,000 and the Groups trade creditors at31 December 2012 were 18,004,000 2011: 16,369,000 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is set out in note 18 to theaccounts.
Essential contracts The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with suppliers of goods and services, including a variety of content rights-holders.
Whilstthese arrangements are important to the Group, individually none are them are essential to the business oftheGroup.
Auditors In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Companys Directors in office as at the date of this report conrmsthat: so far as the Director is aware, there isno relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order tomake himself aware of any relevant audit information andtoestablish that the Companys auditors are aware ofthat information.
The Groups auditors are Grant Thornton UK LLP.
A resolution to re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors to the Company willbeproposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Note 4 in the financial statements states theauditors fees for both audit and non-auditwork.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Business and Financial Review sections on pages 1to 41 together with details of the Groups cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to capital, credit risk andliquidity are described in note 21 tothe financial statements.
The Group had cash balances of 33.6 million at the year end and 6.9 million of debt relating to borrowings and finance leases of 0.2 million.
The Group has net current liabilities at 31 December 2012 but this is due to the liability for the final earnout payment in relation to the RunningBall acquisition in March 2013.
The Group has in place committed debt facilities of 50 million which will be drawn down in full to finance this.
Having reviewed cash ow forecasts and budgets for the year ahead the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Companys offices at Hanover House, Plane Tree Crescent, Feltham, TW137JJ commencing at midday on Tuesday 16 April 2013.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting is included in the separate circular toshareholders.
The Notice is available to view under the Investors section of the Companys website www.
By order of the Board David Surtees Company Secretary Registered Office: Sussex House Plane Tree Crescent Feltham TW13 7HE Registered number: 6324278 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
