OVERVIEW Growth strategy Launch on new digital platforms The Groups strategy is to develop including European and South American products and delivery solutions for football, tennis, rugby union, rugby Strategy in action all digital platforms including web, league, snooker and Austrialian rules smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles football, as well as a number of one off and connected televisions.
The increased box office sporting events.
The Groups YouTube launch Livesport.
com channels proliferation on smart connected devices integration with Facebook also enabled is driving greater than ever digital sports the Group to use targeted advertising to Livesport.
tv channels are offered media consumption and the Group is reach potential subscribers.
across LGs connected televisions committed to delivering an outstanding in five European territories consumer experience on every device.
In In 2012 the Group also integrated addition, the Group recognises that social Livesport.
tv and Goal products across Livesport.
tv channels launched on Facebook networks such asFacebook and Twitter branded YouTube channels delivering and video sharing sites such as YouTube the Groups video content globally.
The Multi-platform, digital, domestic are equally as important as hardware content is funded by advertising with and international rights and platforms and the development of some of the content available in the US production contract started products and delivery solutions for as a paid live stream.
In addition the withthe Australian National thesenetworks is also a key part of the Group also developed applications for Basketball League Groups strategy.
Total College Sports 5th Quarter weekly show produced and In 2012 the Group launched more than The chart below illustrates what distributed exclusively in the 50 live and video-on-demand digital platforms the Groups products are USonHulu sports channels on Facebook across a currently on and what platforms they number of leading sports competitions willroll out to in 2013.
Major connected platform investment 2012 2013 20 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 2014 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 OVERVIEW 2013 Investment for future growth 2014 will be an exciting year for the To fully capitalise on these opportunities The launch of further editions of Goal Group with the FIFA World Cup significant investment in products, with a view to having a edition of Goal and the start ofthe new Watch&Bet technology, content, rights and key staff for every participating nation at the licenceperiod.
are already underway and includes: 2014 World Cup.
The FIFA World Cup will be a major Launching new versions of Goal and A full re-launch of the Groups Content catalyst for football advertising spend Livesport.
tv across all platforms, Distribution products for the betting and the Group is planning a full product including a full re-brand of Goal and and media sectors.
overhaul in 2013 for its Goal, Soccerway, a significant expansion of the Goal ePlayer and other Direct to Consumer editions in preparation for the 2014 brands.
These overhauls will include World Cup.
The roll-out of Goal and product re-designs, improved user Livesport.
tv across platforms in 2013 experience and enhanced functionality.
The Goal reThe Group will also be re-branding Goal launch will have a responsive design, be and ensuring there is an edition of Goal device agnostic, have integrated video for every participating nation in the and have real-time scores.
The Group is also planning on expanding its editorial and data operations to further help it achieve its goals in 2014.
The new Watch&Bet licence period presents real opportunities for the Group.
These opportunities include the potential to adjust the existing licence structure and expand the license base.
The Group will continue to expand its rights portfolio to ensure it is able to deliver the most comprehensive in-play proposition.
In 2013 the Group will launch new v v versions of Goal across all platforms, including a full re-brand and an edition for every nation competing in the 2014 W W World Cup 22 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW In 2013 there will be a number of new product innovations for the Groups betting clients that combine RunningBalls real-time data, W W Watch&Bet and W W Watch& & &T T Trades live video andGSMs sports information and statistics The continued enhancement of The further expansion of the production The increase in the number of the Groups Content Management of live data from the RunningBall scout advertising sales offices and staff to System and underlying technology.
In 2013 the number of sports deliver further growth.
The enhanced Content Management offered by RunningBall will expand to System will manage the content work include volleyball and handball and the By the middle of 2013 having a 22 ow across the Groups entire business Group anticipates covering over 62,000 person US advertising sales team with and seek to capture every sporting matches in 2013.
The global scouting focus in the major media markets event globally.
network will also grow by over 20%.
including New York, Chicago, Detroit, Atlanta, Los Angeles and Dallas.
The establishment of a series of new There will also be a number of production facilities around the world to new product innovations for the The Group continues to have a strong further multi-lingual content.
Groups betting clients that combine balance sheet with cash of 34 million RunningBalls real-time data, and net funds of 26 million and will The establishment of news desks in Watch&Bet and Watch&Trades live continue to consider strategic acquisition multiple markets to improve the quality video and GSMs sports information opportunities in 2013. and quantity of the Groups editorial and statistics.
The continued expansion of the Groups rights portfolio in anticipation of Watch&Bet rights renewals later in 2013.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Business and financial review BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Content distribution 26 Advertising & sponsorship display 28 Advertising & sponsorship video 30 Subscription 32 Technology & production 34 Financial review 36
