56 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility To help evaluate Petrofacs overall In 2012, we completed our four-year contribution and to record the outputs and RoyalAcademy of Engineering Fellowship long-term impacts of our projects, we use programme.
Since 2009, we have provided the London Benchmark Group Investment 17 Petrofac Royal Academy of Engineering Tool.
During the year, we developed the Fellowships to enable graduate engineers to investment tool further and provided training pursue applied technical roles, mainly in oil on its use to our international network of and gas.
We are renewing the programme external affairs representatives.
We are currently evolving our overall approach In respect of marginalised groups, during the to strategic corporate giving and sponsorship.
year, we provided 50 Petrofac scholarships Our philanthropic and sponsorship activities to the Arvind Gandbhir Secondary School will focus on global education initiatives that innorthern Mumbai, India.
In the UK, promote science, technology, engineering ourofces in London and Woking set up and mathematics STEM and improve group mentoring programmes with the access toeducation and employment of charity Mosaic, which supports children people frommarginalised society.
fromchallenging backgrounds and deprived areas.
Our mentors strive to help young participants full their aspirations and potential by workingwith them to boost theircondence, self-belief and motivation.
Petrofac is partnering with community groups to meet local needs effectively on TunisiasKerkennah Island.
We operate and have a 45% interest in the islands Chergui eld with Entreprise Tunisienne DActivitis Ptrolires, the state oil company, holding theremaining 55%.
In 2012, social projects included cleaning up areas that had been used to dump municipal waste, providing capital to the municipal authority for urgent road safety improvements, and facilitating a plant nursery start-up, in partnership with an agricultural collective, toprovide indigenous crops so households can grow cereals and vegetables.
To support the Kerkennah Island projects, we established a permanent CR ofce in 2012.
This is currently staffed by 16 people, almost all from the island.
In 2013, we will survey island householders, community groups and other stakeholders to develop our understanding of local needs.
The results will be used to update our plans, which focuses on helping young unemployed people and women.
