20 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Our business Our business model The scale and depth of Petrofacs capabilities enable us to provide services to our customers across the entire life cycle of oil and gas assets.
Our services are available on either a stand-alone or integrated basis and we provide a range of commercial models, which are tailored to meet our customers needs.
Services are delivered through our two divisions ECOM and IES.
Our services Our commercial models Engineering, Construction, Operations Design From the concept to the detail, our design services draw & Maintenance on deep technical experience combined with a longtrack record of delivering in the eld.
Our design teams span the Reimbursable services technical spectrum and are available worldwide to address Where the cost of our services is reimbursed by the customer plus an customers needs.
The majority of services provided by Engineering & Consulting Services and Offshore Projects & Operations are remunerated on this basis.
Build Whether it is on or offshore, brown or greeneld, ourengineering, Cost plus KPIs procurement and construction businesses deliver customers Often our reimbursable contracts will include incentive income linked projects with an acute focus on schedule and cost.
We work to the successful delivery of key performance indicators KPIs, for under both reimbursable and lump-sum contractual models example, Duty Holder projects like the Kittiwake Platform in the UK from themillion to the multi-billion dollar scale.
Lump-sum turnkey Manage Onshore Engineering & Construction and Offshore Capital Projects We provide a complete asset management service, undera undertake engineering, procurement and construction EPC projects variety of different commercial models, covering production predominantly on a lump-sum or xed-price basis, for example the enhancement, production operations and maintenance work, South Yoloten project in Turkmenistan.
Integrated Energy Services Train Our global training business manages 14 training facilitiesin Risk Service Contracts RSCs seven countries.
We have an integrated approach, working with Where we develop, operate and maintain a eld, while the resource customers to assess capabilityneeds and to build programmes holder retains ownership and control of their reserves.
Often, we will to develop competent, safe and efficient workforces.
co-invest in the development and will be reimbursed based upon our performance.
A recent example is the Berantai project in Maintain Malaysia.
RSCs typically have low exposure to commodity prices Our people have deep experience in operating oil and and reservoir performance.
We provide project management, operations Production Enhancement Contracts PECs and maintenance support and engineering and construction Where we are paid a tariff per barrel for enhancement of oil and gas solutions for planned facility modications and upgrades.
production above an agreed baseline and therefore have no direct commodity price exposure.
PECs are appropriate for mature elds Develop which have a long production history.
Our contracts are long term, We bring our spectrum of technical skills together under for example, 15 years on the Ticleni contract in Romania and 25 integrated contracts to support customers in developing their years for the Magallanes and Santuario elds in Mexico.
We undertake thisdevelopment work under Equity Upstream Investments avariety of commercial structures, sharing risk with our Upstream Investments through Production Sharing Contracts PSC, customers in order to align ourselves closely with them.
Concession Agreements and Equity, of which Block PM304, the Chergui eld and the Greater Stella Area development are examples.
We will typically have some production and commodity price exposure.
Going forward, we expect to focus more on Risk Service Contracts and Production Enhancement Contracts.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 21 Key 01 CO2 storage 02 Offshore wind 03 CO2 sequestration capture 04 Rening and petrochemicals 01 05 Storage 06 Liqueed natural gas 07 Oil and gas processing facilities and pipelines 08 Onshore development and production 09 Offshore development and production 10 Floating production 11 Underground reservoir 12 Training facility 03 02 04 05 12 06 08 07 10 09 11
