14 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Delivering Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 15 Expanding our offshore EPC business While Petrofac is perhaps best known for ouronshore engineering, procurement andconstruction EPC capabilities, we havebeen operating in offshore oil and gas for more than thirty years.
Combining this offshore historywith our EPC heritage, weaim to build a world-class offshore engineering, procurement, installation and construction EPIC business.
Our rationale Our OCP operation complements our Since 2002 we have developed offshore oil established Offshore Projects & Operations and gas elds, often under lump-sum turnkey OPO service line.
From the Cendor, Berantai and reimbursable browneld modications Sepat projects in Malaysia, to the Dons in projects, and on operations and maintenance theUK, wehave brought a differentiated services worldwide.
Looking forward, webelieve expenditure on offshore Our progress developments will grow strongly and it is 2012 has been a transition year for our amarket we feel well positioned to enter.
Before the creation of OCP, important progress had been made by Our approach OPO on two key offshore EPIC projects, In 2012, we created a new service line, Berantai and Sepat.
Since its inception, Offshore Capital Projects OCP, to deliver OCPhas continued to build the team and our offshore EPIC ambitions.
OCP is led by managed the work on the West Desaru Managing Director Yves Inbona, and it forms development in Malaysia.
At the same time, part of our Engineering, Construction, the team has developed a strong pipeline Operations & Maintenance ECOM division.
Since joining in June, Yveshas developed teams in Kuala Lumpur, Sharjah and Woking Meeting new challenges and to execute existing projects and prepare for lookingahead new activity.
Our aspiration to grow a top tier offshore EPIC business requires us to grow our capability.
Initially our focus has been on shallower Todo this, we plan to build upon our existing waters in South East Asia, the United Arab track record by deepening our offshore Emirates UAE and the Caspian Sea, technical capability and investing in selected butweplan to widen our focus and target assets to provide access to these markets.
deepwater and Subsea Umbilicals, Risers and Flowlines SURF opportunities in other geographies including the Gulf of Mexico andWest Africa.
US$89bn Total CAPEX in 2012 Offshore E&P CAPEX by region US$ bn 3 Eastern Europe & CIS 13 18 11 Western Europe North America Asia 9 Middle East 18 Africa 3 14 Australasia Latin America Source: Douglas Westwood, 2013 16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Delivering
