Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 17 Building our Integrated Energy Servicesbusiness We launched our Integrated Energy Services IES division in June2011with a focus on supporting customers in developing their hydrocarbon resources, by leveraging all the capabilities of the Petrofac Group.
The growth of IES is one of our strategic priorities.
Our rationale Equity Upstream Investments: Looking ahead As a service company, Petrofac has no need Petrofac takes a direct interest in a eld or IESs good start puts it in a strong position to to take equity in oil and gas elds or to book block alongside our customer.
Upstream grow around the world.
Already, its existing reserves or production.
What we have is the Investments through Production Sharing projects go a long way towards our target of capability to develop and manage oil and gas Contracts PSC, Concession Agreements generating at least US$300 million of net profit elds, by deploying a wide range of deep and Equity, of which Block PM304, the from IES in 2015. technical knowledge and skills that have been Chergui eld and the Greater Stella Area built up in the Group over many years.
believe there are many customers particularly Our progress national oil companies NOCs and small IES has grown signicantly since launch, explorers that need support in developing expanding existing relationships and and managing their assets under exible developing new ones.
It now has a portfolio commercial models that enable them to of projects across the globe, including: maintain ownership of their reserves.
In some cases, Petrofac will invest capital in t Malaysia: Petrofac is leading the order to align ourselves more closely with our development of the offshore Berantai oil customers.
Another part of our offering, and gas eld under a RSC.
Along with particularly relevant to NOCs, is our skills ourpartner, SapuraKencana Petroleum training capability that we can deploy to Berhad, we were appointed to develop develop local workforces and increase theeld and operate it for seven years competence.
afterrstgas: a landmark reached in October2012 Our approach t Romania: Petrofac operates the Ticleni Our IES division is made up of three discrete oileld and its eight satellite elds for but connected service lines: Petrom under a PEC.
We signed the 15-year contract, which has a 10-year t Developments has deep engineering and The rapid growth of our Mexican extension option, in2010 project management capabilities that enable business demonstrates the huge t UK: Upon first production Petrofac will us to develop customers assets effectively potential of our IES strategy.
acquire a 20% interest in the Greater Stella t Production Solutions delivers services to Area development in the North Sea.
improve production, operational efficiency, We won our first contracts in Mexico in Theeld is being developed by a oating asset integrity and recovery from our August 2011 when, in a live auction, state production facility, FPF1, which formerly customers mature elds operator PEMEX chose us to redevelop belonged entirely to Petrofac but which is t Training Services develops and manages and increase production at Magallanes now 75% owned by our co-venturers in capability plans for customers, builds and and Santuario, two mature onshore Greater Stella, Ithaca and Dyas operates training facilities currently 14 blocks that have been in operation since facilities in seven countries and delivers Meeting new challenges the early 1960s.
around 200,000 training days annually IESs growth is fostering opportunities andchallenges that are changing the way Within IES we offer our services within three Petrofac completed the safe transition of wework.
broad commercial models: thetwo blocks from PEMEX in a record 60days, 30 days ahead of schedule.
For example, increased upstream activity Risk Service Contracts RSCs : Petrofac Atthesame time, among other requires us to expand our capabilities in manages the development of an asset, challenges, we opened an ofce: areas such as subsurface, specialist drilling operates and maintains that asset and established an operating infrastructure: and asset management.
To meet this need, investscapital in the project.
The capital is recruited 140 staff: established more we have built a technical centre in Woking, reimbursed, generally from production cash than100 procurement contracts UK and are constructing another in Delhi, ows, with a return based on our andobtained licences and permits India.
performance across factors such as tooperate.
schedule, cost and operational performance.
NOCs often require us to use and develop local staff.
Consequently, we are developing In 2012 Petrofac won two further PEMEX Production Enhancement Contracts our already strong focus on in-country contracts: one, in partnership with PECs : Petrofac takes over the operation of training and recruitment.
This investment Schlumberger, for the Pnuco Contract a mature asset, defines and executes and inlocal workforces complements our Area in Veracruz State, the second, invests in its redevelopment plan.
We earn strategic commitment to deliver social forthe Arenque Contract Area, areturn from a tariff per barrel paid on an investmentprogrammes in host communities.
agreed baseline and on incremental production.
Insome cases the return is The increasingly long-term nature of NOC recovered completely through the tariff: contracts, makes such close community inother cases, a portion of our capital is relationships essential.
reimbursed immediately and consequently the incremental tariff is lower.
