60 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Tracking emissions Managing changing The advance in Petrofacs CDP rating reects environmental risks the maturity of our processes, environmental Our environmental steering group, which management innovation and more systematic includes senior operational and functional reporting.
The latter follows the 2011 managers, continues to shape our approach introduction of standardised environmental to environmental management.
In 2012, reporting practice across the Group.
thegroup revised our environmental policy Thisenables us to track our total energy inline with Petrofacs recently introduced consumption, waste, travel, water use two-divisional structure and our evolving andairemissions more accurately.
business model, including the increase in our Toprogress further, we now aim to attain offshore activity.
Changes included clarifying thirdparty validation of our gures, in line our commitments to environmental withthe GRI standard.
performance and outlining the respective environmental objectives for the Group and In 2012, we again participated in the individual service lines.
UKGovernments Carbon Reduction Energy efficiencies at our Sharjah Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme for In 2012, we continued to explore opportunities ofce reduced electricity use by 18% our assets located in the UK, complying with in delivering capture, transport and storage in 2012. all criteria.
solutions for major CO2 emitters through our wholly-owned subsidiary, CO2DeepStore.
The energy reduction at our Al Khan We have seen a reduction in our carbon tower building led to a saving of more footprint of approximately 11%.
This is a As well as measuring our own emissions, than US$150,000.
This cut followed an result of a reduction in aring activities in wecontinue to do the same for our even larger reduction in 2011, when Malaysia as well as changes to our reporting customers.
Our specialist support includes energy consumption fell by almost a practices to be more in line with GRI providing extensive monitoring under the quarter, saving more than US$230,000.
In all, our operations, including Oslo-Paris Convention environmental The savings resulted from carbon-saving ourshare of joint ventures but excluding management requirements and the European measures that cost little toimplement.
customer-owned facilities, emitted 201,675 Environmental Emissions Monitoring System.
We aim to go on saving energy, and We remain active members of the Arab money, at Al Khan.
In 2013, to ensure Although we have a very good environmental Forum for Environment and Development thebuilding management system runs at performance track record, we received a and the Emirates Environmental Group.
optimum efficiency, we will conduct daily 3,000 ne for an onshore oil spill at our reviews of electricity consumption and Ticleni operation in Romania.
Looking forward, we intend to revise heating, ventilation and air conditioning.
ourenvironmental standards and overall We hope this will lead tofurther savings approach, to ensure our evolving business ofat least 3%.
continues to manage environmental risk effectively and consistently.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 61 Governance 62 Directors information We have 11 Board members, comprising the Non-executive Chairman, five independent Non-executive Directors and five Executive Directors.
The Secretary tothe Board is responsible to our Board and acted as Secretary to all Committees during the year.
64 Corporate governance report The fundamental value of good governance is that it seeks to ensure that a companyis well run.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and for promoting long-term shareholder value inaresponsible manner.
76 Nominations Committee report Following a recent period of change, the Nominations Committee has concentrated on longer-term succession planning this year, while continuing to review the composition and structure of the Board.
78 Audit Committee report This year was very much business as usual for the Audit Committee, which monitored the integrity of the Companys financial statements and effectiveness of our financial and regulatory compliance controls and systems.
82 Board Risk Committee report The Board Risk Committee has focused its attention this year on clarifying key elements of the enterprise risk prole and the Groups risk management framework toprovide assurance of governance commitments to the Board.
88 Directors Remuneration report Following another year of strong performance, the Remuneration Committee hasconsidered remuneration policy and compensation for the Directors and seniormanagers of the Group, with awareness of the environment surrounding executive remuneration.
