26 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Our business Operating environment World liquids supply by type in the new policies scenario Overview supply and demand 1 The International Energy Agencys IEA new policies scenario p Processing gains Crude oil: anticipates that global energy demand will increase by over one-third p Light tight oil p Fields yet-to-be found p Other unconventional oil p Fields yet-to-be developed from 2011 to 2035, 1.2% per year on average, driven by rising p Natural gas liquids p Currently producing incomes and population growth.
Under the current policies 2 scenario, energy demand increases by 1.5% per year to 2035.
100 Thevast majority of the growth in demand will come from non-OECD 90 countries, particularly China the worlds largest energy consumer, 80 India and the Middle East, while OECD demand increases by just 3% 70 from 2010 to 2035 under the new policies scenario.
60 Fossil fuels will remain the predominant means of satisfying global 50 3 energy demand over the long term.
Under the new policies 40 scenario, demand for oil is projected to increase by around 14% 30 toapproximately 100 million barrels per day by 2035.
Global demand for gas is expected to increase considerably faster, with a projected 20 50% increase from 2010 to 2035, reaching the equivalent of 10 approximately 88 million barrels ofoilper day by 2035.
0 2000 2005 2011 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 The natural decline in existing oil and gas production is of even greater Source: World Energy Outlook 2012 OECD IEA 2012, gure 3.15, page 103 signicance than the anticipated growth in demand for oil and gas.
Forexample, the gure opposite shows the decline from currently producing oil elds out to 2035.
Large-scale investment in oil and gasprojects is therefore required both to limit and compensate for thedecline in supply and to satisfy growth in demand.
1 Our central scenario, the New Policies Scenario, takes into account existing policy commitments and assumes those recently announced are implemented, albeit in a cautious manner, IEA, World Energy Outlook 2012, November 2012, page 33.
2 The Current Policies Scenario assumes no implementation of policies beyond those adopted by mid-2012, IEA, World Energy Outlook 2012, November 2012, page 33.
Includes traditional and modern biomass uses.
Source: World Energy Outlook 2012 OECD EA 2012, table 2.2, page 53 Investment in oil and gas infrastructure Strategy Driven by the supply and demand environment described above, Our addressable market is a small proportion of the total global capital investment in oil and gas infrastructure is expected to be and operational expenditure in the industry.
We have three key 1 approximately US$19 trillion over the period 2012 to 2035 strategic initiatives for growth which will expand our addressable includingupstream, rening and transmission and distribution.
market over time: Thisrepresents just over 50% of all energy-supply infrastructure inthenew policies scenario, and is equivalent to US$614 billion t expanding into new geographies within our core markets peryear from 2012 to 2035.
Approximately 50% of this investment seepage13 around US$300 billion per annum is expected to be in our core t taking our onshore EPC capability offshore see page 15 markets of the UK Continental Shelf UKCS, the Middle East and t the provision of Integrated Energy Services see page 17 Africa, the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS and the AsiaPacic region.
In summary The IEA sees the balance of investment shifting to the Middle East Notwithstanding that we still face significant competition in many of andother regions, however the average investment per year over our established markets, the key drivers of capital and operational theperiod to 2035 is similar to that spent in 2012, as the nding expenditure should ensure that demand for our services remains anddevelopment costs in these regions are lower, offsetting strong over the long term.
The substantial market opportunity that we thehigher cost of new sources such as deepwater and see for the provision of Integrated Energy Services should help to 2 .
drive strong growth in that division and help us achieve our ambition of more than doubling our 2010 recurring Group earnings by 2015.
Operational expenditures Industry-wide operational expenditures are expected to increase.
Theaverage cost per barrel of developing, operating and maintaining new elds, which are often in more remote or harsher environments, is likely to increase over time.
In addition, the cost per barrel ofmaintaining existing producing elds is also likely to increase astheywill require greater healthcare as they mature and productiondeclines.
1 IEA, World Energy Outlook 2012, November 2012, page 124.
2 IEA, World Energy Outlook 2012, November 2012, page 123.
28 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Our business Safety and integrity Nothing is more important to Petrofac than safety.
We work in a  and  Safety culture industry that requires a vigilant and proactive approach to High-performing assets and robust systems alone do not deliver safeguarding our people and operations across the world.
safety: employees must have safety skills and mind-sets.
Trainingplays an integral part here, particularly when we recruit The safety of our people and of the plants we build and operate are localworkers who are unfamiliar with our industry and safety culture.
critical to the continued success of our Group.
In 2012, our Offshore Projects & Operations business was instrumental in the development of an e-learning programme in safe Asset integrity working practices for offshore staff.
The interactive Control of work In 2012 we launched an asset integrity framework to deliver a programme uses 3D animations, case studies, lessons learned from structured and consistent approach to integrity across all Petrofac previous accidents and offshore videos.
This programme is now being operations.
The framework comprises our asset integrity policy, widely adopted throughout our industry, including by some ourasset integrity standard, a number of guidance documents and ofPetrofacs customers.
We continued to promote our internal Horizon Zero safety campaign The new framework was launched in April 2012 at our annual safety around the world.
The campaign, named after our goal of achieving conference attended by 150 senior managers, including our Chairman zero lost time accidents and major incidents, galvanises employees and Group Chief Executive.
To reinforce the importance of safety and around our eight Golden rules of safety.
Driving, which remains the integrity assurance to Petrofac, we invited Lord Cullen, who led the primary cause of injury and death in our industry, was a particular 1990 public inquiry into the Piper Alpha oil platform disaster in which focus during the year.
In 2012, we translated our Golden rules safety 167 people died, to speak at this event.
video into a further six languages and revised our managers guides to motivating staff to act safely.
We continued to strengthen the systems we use to monitor and maintain our projects and operations.
Our Group Integrity Forum, We work to reduce risk across the wider oil and gas industry by which brings together the individuals responsible for overseeing sharing best practice with our peers.
We remain members of the UK integrity assurance in our service lines, meets quarterly.
Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group and support the  for the oversight of the management UK industrys Step Change in Safety initiative.
Our specialist ofPetrofacs integrity assurance worldwide.
operations provide invaluable insights in this eld: Petrofac Training Services is a respected emergency response trainer and our UK Petrofac conducts detailed audits of major sites to determine Emergency Response Service Centre provides a 24-hour integrated compliance with our asset integrity standard and protection against, response capability.
and preparedness for, major accidents.
The information gathered is carefully assessed to check performance and trends and remedial Sharing knowledge and experience is a critical aspect of improving action is taken as required.
During the year, we continued to develop safety culture.
To help formalise this, we developed a lessons-learned our asset integrity guidelines, which aid us in recognising risks and database to enable easy access to a wealth of safety information setting actions to manage them.
andto generate alerts around specic incidents or areasof concern.
To support the sharing of lessons learnt andbest practice internally, Our Asset Integrity Review Board, which meets monthly, assesses we brought together around 30 safety managers from across the operational integrity against 30 key measures.
The review board, Group at our annual Safety Managers Forum, inDubai.
which involves managers from all operated sites, identies, and seeks to resolve, potential risks and acts as a valuable forum for peer review In safety, as in other areas of our business, we are continuously and sharing experience.
tryingto improve by introducing greater commonality across Petrofac.
In 2012, we reviewed our safety systems and processes and During the year, some Petrofac Board members had the opportunity introduced a number of consistent Group-wide initiatives, including to view our safety and asset integrity activities in person with a series anew incident investigation and root cause analysis system.
of visits to Company sites.
One of these visits, to the Kittiwake platform in the North Sea, included Petrofacs Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer.
