Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 29 Other safety landmarks were achieved at Karan, our gas plant Our performance development project in eastern Saudi Arabia, which has had more One of the most notable aspects of our safety performance in 2012 than 11 million incident-free man-hours: our Mina Al Ahmadi pipeline was the significant increase in the total man-hours worked reecting project in southern Kuwait, which has had over 10 million, and our the number of large contracts in either construction or operations oileld production enhancement operations in Ticleni, south-western phases.
At 272 million man-hours this was almost double the Romania, which topped five million.
Sadly, these achievements are overshadowed by the deaths of In many ways, our overall safety performance was good in 2012. twoPetrofac contract workers in 2012.
In March, a foreman at our Ourrecordable incident frequency rate, as measured according to site inKauther, Oman, was struck by a reversing truck and in April Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules, was 0.13 per acharge-hand died after he was crushed by falling equipment at 200,000 man-hours 2011: 0.14 and our lost time injury LTI oursite near Ruwais in western Abu Dhabi.
Each incident was frequency rate was 0.018, the same as last year.
Our driving incident investigated and reviewed by senior management and then, frequency rate, per million kilometres driven, also stayed at last years separately, by the Petrofac Board.
The lessons learned from these level of 0.11. tragic events have been shared Group-wide.
In line with our Horizon Zero objectives, several sites experienced During the year we continued to focus on developing our emergency noLTI incidents at all.
Particularly noteworthy was the 25 million response preparedness across the Group.
This included training man-hours without LTI achieved by our team at the El Merk gas andpreparedness exercises at both the Group and divisional level.
The achievement helped the project win We also revised our crisis management standard to reect the JV partner Anadarkos, 2013 International Safety and Environmental changing nature of our contracts and our presence in a number of Excellence Program Award.
Also, our HSSE in Construction team challenging geographies, which we will continue to develop and working on the Majnoon oil eld project in Iraq for Shell, recently won reneduring 2013. the Shell Chief Executive Ofcers Award for improving performance in global health, safety, security and environment HSSE risk areas.
