How we work 22 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Our business Our Fit for 2015 programme Petrofac has delivered strong growth historically and has set exacting medium-term goals: to more than double our recurring 2010 Group earnings by 2015.
Tohelp us consolidate this growth and build a stronger platform for the future, we have launched an internal programme, Fitfor 2015, toimprove our Group-wide structures, systems and processes.
Programme status Programme focus The project was launched in January 2012 and during the year we The Fit for 2015 initiatives address three broad areas: identied key areas for improvement and then drew up detailed plans to address those areas.
This initial wave of initiatives will begin to t our strategic focus, to improve both our business development deliver in 2013, but we will also launch design work on a shorter activity on priority prospects, customers and countries and the second wave of initiatives during the course of the year.
quality of projects entering our portfolio t how we work, to identify more efficient and effective ways of working to improve performance across all of our businesses.
Activity has focused on identifying and codifying internal best practice to ensure a more systematic approach to project delivery t who delivers the work, to ensure the right people with the right skills are in place to deliver our plans.
The project has focused initially on improving our performance management processes asthe key enabler of change Business development tied to strategy, with Systematic and nimble approach to project full clarity on what differentiates our service lines delivery.
Balanced use of low-cost centres and value engineering Integrated approach to sales across service lines where appropriate Collaborative delivery of projects across service lines Focus on priority prospects to increase win rate Who delivers work Drive to win instilled across the organisation Common performance, talent and reward frameworks applicable to all service lines Best-in-class recruitment, with capability demand linked to strategy and business plans Strategic focus Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 23 Programme impact Senior leadership Many of the initiatives apply to specic parts of the business.
Petrofac senior management is driving Fit for 2015.
Group President OurIntegrated Energy Services IES division, for example, is dening Maroun Semaan is sponsoring the programme and each initiative also atoolkit of asset management processes to support its production has a senior owner accountable for delivery.
enhancement projects, while our Onshore Engineering & Construction business activities include an initiative which aims to improve our use and management of subcontractors.
Reecting the importance of Fit for 2015, the programme is being supported internally with a global employee engagement campaign.
This includes town hall presentations by senior managers, local team briengs and video, print and online updates.
A standardised Group-wide approachfor managing Production Enhancement Contracts PECs within IES will be the outcome of one Fit for 2015 initiative.
As IES asset managers build their portfolio of PECs, theyare identifying best practices as they take over and operate new elds.
The IES asset management initiative has developed a new toolkit that establishes aconsistent way of working, enabling ustorespond more quickly, apply best practice, share learning and improve production enhancement.
Gordon East, initiative owner, says the toolkit will help staff understand and build on minimum requirements.
It is not intended to be a suite of new technical processes, but a way of organising existingprocesses to be most effective, says East, Managing Director of IES Production Solutions.
