10 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview How is the growth of the IES division Can you tell us more about Fit for 2015?
Fit for 2015 is an internal programme aimed at improving the efficiency and sustainability of our business.
The aim of the project Since our inception our risk prole has evolved as our strategy has isto enable us to achieve our financial goals of more than doubling developed, but we have always demonstrated an ability to manage our recurring 2010 Group net earnings by 2015, and to go on our changing risks effectively.
Having reviewed our business to identify road blocks to sustainable growth, we are now focusing on a suite The development of IES is the latest stage in the evolution of our ofinitiatives.
These initiatives concentrate on how we win business, model.
The principal driver of our IES strategy is to leverage our how we deliver for customers and how we motivate and develop service capabilities under commercial frameworks such as Production ourpeople.
For more information on our Fit for 2015 initiatives, Enhancement and Risk Service Contracts.
It is true that we invest seepages 22 and 23. some capital in these projects, and therefore, have to be confident in our ability to deliver to achieve a return.
In these contracts we focus on helping our customers develop proven reserves or to redevelop How does Petrofac approach mature assets.
IES is helping to build long-term sustainable earnings for the Group, thereby creating a better balanced business.
successionplanning and do you haveastrong enough talent pipeline tomanage future growth?
What characterises the Companys approach to managing risk?
Succession planning is an aspect of business that we have been managing proactively since we listed Petrofac in 2005.
In the last We have an extensive internal risk review process, which we seven years we have seen changes within the leadership team undertake prior to committing the business to new projects.
thathave been well managed and have enhanced the business.
Wecontinue to develop our succession planning, regularly identifying Our focus on oil and gas combined with our deep knowledge and and reviewing potential successors for each senior post, as well as long-term presence in key geographies help us to execute effectively the accompanying performance development plans that help ensure and avoid the risk of being unable to operate in challenging or potential leaders have the skills to step up to these higher roles.
Wecontinue to build a track record in developing our own leaders and core capabilities in-house: and are extending this in areas of the While we can see exciting opportunities ahead, we would never business where traditionally we have had limited capability, such as pursue growth strategies if the risks were neither manageable nor the sub-surface expertise we have been developing as part of the commensurate with shareholder reward.
A key element in fide-risking technical directorate within IES.
We have been increasing our growth is making sure we have the right capabilities, systems and graduate intake year-on-year, and in 2012 more than 240 graduates processes to support expansion.
Our Fit for 2015 programme, joined the Petrofac Group.
sponsored by Maroun Semaan, Petrofacs President, is focusing on delivering this type of sustainable organisation.
For more details In order to help maintain a full and visible talent pipeline, in 2013 we aboutPetrofac and risk, see our Board Risk Committee report will be launching the Petrofac Academy.
The Academy is designed to onpages 82 to 87. support the development of the technical skills of our graduate intake and to develop further ongoing skills and career development across our workforce.
The first stage of this programme, a technical academy for graduates supporting our Onshore Engineering & Construction business, will be launched later this year in Sharjah andwe hope that it will enable us to double the level of graduates webring into the organisation in the next few years.
Overview Our business Segmental performance Financial performance Corporate responsibility Governance Financials and risk Overview Our business Segmental performance and Financial risk performance Corporate responsibility Governance Financials Overview Our business Segmental performance Financial performance Corporate responsibility Governance Financials and risk Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 11 Last year, Petrofac relaunched and The theme of this years report is from reiterated its values of being safe, Strategy to Delivery.
How would you ethical, innovative, responsive, quality characterise progress in developing the and cost conscious and driven to deliver.
strategic growth drivers and how are How successful was the relaunch?
they going to help Petrofac to achieve itsvision to be the worlds most admired The 2012 campaign went very well and the adoption of our values oileld service company?
was once again prevalent at our annual employee awards ceremony in November, where we recognised 19 individuals and teams for In last years report, we communicated the three strategic priorities theirachievements in living our values.
Giventhe ongoing growth in forour business: delivering growth in our geographic footprint, our staff numbers, embedding our values is a continuous process.
extending our market share in the offshore EPIC sector, and building Our people and their distinctive values is Petrofacs biggest our IES business.
In2012, we focused on communicating whatour values mean and how they can beadopted into daily working life.
In 2013, We have made good progress across all of these areas and I have our revised Code of Conduct, which has thevalues at its core, will be already touched upon some of the developments around IES and sentto all employees.
Also, and as part ofour new andconsistent ouroffshore business in this update.
Across the next six pages of the approach to performance management across the Group, 25% of report, wehave taken each strategic priority in turn and highlighted employee assessment will be based on how well individual behaviours our aspirations and progress for each.
I believe we will achieve our vision to be the worlds most admired oileld service company by continuing to focus on our strategy and delivering for our customers and shareholders.
This has been another good year for us in all of theseareas, but thats not the end of the story.
We have to challenge ourselves to keep doing better every year to achieve our vision.
We delivered on our strategy in three key areas: 12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 13 14 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 15 16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 17 From our inception in the US in the 1980s and our first international push into Expanding our offshore EPC business Building our Integrated Energy Servicesbusiness theMiddle East in the 1990s, Petrofac now has operations inmany countries.
While Petrofac is perhaps best known for ouronshore engineering, procurement We launched our Integrated Energy Services IES division in Continuing this trajectory of careful geographic expansion is one of our andconstruction EPC capabilities, we havebeen operating in offshore oil and gas June2011with a focus on supporting customers in developing their strategicpriorities.
for more than thirty years.
Combining this offshore historywith our EPC heritage, hydrocarbon resources, by leveraging all the capabilities of the weaim to build a world-class offshore engineering, procurement, installation and Petrofac Group.
The growth of IES is one of our strategic priorities.
Our rationale MOPU for the West Desaru eld and made Our rationale Our OCP operation complements our Our rationale Equity Upstream Investments: Looking ahead As a young company, we still have a relatively significant progress on the second phase Since 2002 we have developed offshore oil established Offshore Projects & Operations As a service company, Petrofac has no need Petrofac takes a direct interest in a eld or IESs good start puts it in a strong position to concentrated geographic footprint and a ofCendor.
Our Training Services business and gas elds, often under lump-sum turnkey OPO service line.
OPO focuses on to take equity in oil and gas elds or to book block alongside our customer.
Upstream grow around the world.
Already, its existing natural part of our growth strategy will be to also formed a strategic partnership with contracts.
From the Cendor, Berantai and reimbursable browneld modications reserves or production.
What we have is the Investments through Production Sharing projects go a long way towards our target of look at new regions where we believe we PETRONAS to design and build two training Sepat projects in Malaysia, to the Dons in projects, and on operations and maintenance capability to develop and manage oil and gas Contracts PSC, Concession Agreements generating at least US$300 million of net profit canwin and deliver business successfully.
theUK, wehave brought a differentiated services worldwide.
elds, by deploying a wide range of deep and Equity, of which Block PM304, the from IES in 2015.
Achange in government or policy can create approach to this work.
Looking forward, technical knowledge and skills that have been Chergui eld and the Greater Stella Area fresh opportunities and the discovery of new West Africa webelieve expenditure on offshore Our progress built up in the Group over many years.
oil and gas elds cangenerate further options Petrofac built on its presence in Nigeria in developments will grow strongly and it is 2012 has been a transition year for our believe there are many customers particularly Our progress for us.
Expansionindifferent markets also 2012 with a new relationship in West Africa.
amarket we feel well positioned to enter.
Before the creation of national oil companies NOCs and small IES has grown signicantly since launch, makesPetrofac more resilient to particular In November, we signed a strategic alliance OCP, important progress had been made by explorers that need support in developing expanding existing relationships and challenges in individual regions, ensuring with Bowleven, an Africa-focused oil and Our approach OPO on two key offshore EPIC projects, and managing their assets under exible theoverall Group portfolio remains robust.
gascompany, to support the proposed In 2012, we created a new service line, Berantai and Sepat.
Since its inception, commercial models that enable them to developing new ones.
It now has a portfolio development of theEtinde Permit, offshore Offshore Capital Projects OCP, to deliver OCPhas continued to build the team and maintain ownership of their reserves.
of projects across the globe, including: Our approach Cameroon.
These steps complement our our offshore EPIC ambitions.
OCP is led by managed the work on the West Desaru We are selective and careful when expanding 24.1%1 interest in Seven Energy, a Nigerian Managing Director Yves Inbona, and it forms development in Malaysia.
At the same time, In some cases, Petrofac will invest capital in t Malaysia: Petrofac is leading the in new markets.
part of our Engineering, Construction, the team has developed a strong pipeline order to align ourselves more closely with our development of the offshore Berantai oil Transporting goods by road in Iraq customers.
Another part of our offering, and gas eld under a RSC.
Along with canbe challenging, complex and Operations & Maintenance ECOM division.
particularly relevant to NOCs, is our skills ourpartner, SapuraKencana Petroleum We select geographies that have significant Saudi Arabia time-consuming.
Since joining in June, Yveshas developed training capability that we can deploy to Berhad, we were appointed to develop hydrocarbon reserves and then assess In 2012, Petrofac expanded its operations in teams in Kuala Lumpur, Sharjah and Woking Meeting new challenges and develop local workforces and increase theeld and operate it for seven years whether we can do business safely and Saudi Arabia with four new projects.
In July, To solve this problem, the Petrofac to execute existing projects and prepare for lookingahead competence.
afterrstgas: a landmark reached in Deli Deli Deli D Deliv v v five eri eri ering r ng ng g responsibly in that country.
After this we we won two engineering, procurement teamworking on the Majnoon eld Deli Deli Deli Deliv v five veri ering ng new activity.
Our aspiration to grow a top tier offshore EPIC Deli Deli Deli Deliv liiv v v v v five five v v v v veri eri eri eri ering riiiiiiiin ng ng ng ng ng ng ng focus on areas where we believe Petrofac andconstruction EPC awards for Phase II development, for Shell Iraq Petroleum business requires us to grow our capability.
Our approach October2012 can build a differentiated business: where our ofthe petrochemical expansion project for Development BV, constructed a bespoke Initially our focus has been on shallower Todo this, we plan to build upon our existing Our IES division is made up of three discrete t Romania: Petrofac operates the Ticleni mix of innovative contract options, preference Petro Rabigh, a domestic company in which jetty, to enable essential equipment waters in South East Asia, the United Arab track record by deepening our offshore but connected service lines: oileld and its eight satellite elds for fordelivering with local partners, and ability national oil company Saudi Aramco and  instead.
Emirates UAE and the Caspian Sea, technical capability and investing in selected Petrom under a PEC.
We signed the geo geo geo geog graph raphical al totrain and develop local workforces, Sumitomo Chemical Company of Japan of of of ff ff f f fs s s shor re re e butweplan to widen our focus and target assets to provide access to these markets.
Inte Inte nte te teg grat grat grat ra ra ra a e ed E ed E ed E ed ed ed ed d E d E d E d E fide d d d d d d E d d d d E E E E E E E E E E Energ ner ne ner er rg rg rg rg rg rg rg r rg g g g g gy y y y y y y y y y y t Developments has deep engineering and 15-year contract, which has a 10-year Therewere many challenges: the local project management capabilities that enable extension option, in2010 The rapid growth of our Mexican couldmake us particularly effective.
Then, in December, Shatt Al Arab River, which had not deepwater and Subsea Umbilicals, Risers us to develop customers assets effectively t UK: Upon first production Petrofac will business demonstrates the huge SaudiAramco awarded us two further EPC beenused commercially for 30 years, and Flowlines SURF opportunities in other t Production Solutions delivers services to acquire a 20% interest in the Greater Stella potential of our IES strategy.
Our progress contracts, totalling US$1.4 billion, for its hadto bedredged: the team needed geographies including the Gulf of Mexico improve production, operational efficiency, Area development in the North Sea.
ex ex ex exp p p pa ansio nsion n n We are particularly proud of the progress Jazan renery and terminal development.
tofamiliarise itself with water levels, andWest Africa.
S Ser Serv v v v v v v v vice ice ice i ice iice ces ce e es e es es Theeld is being developed by a oating We won our first contracts in Mexico in wehave made over the last 12 months in owrates and loading data: and asset integrity and recovery from our August 2011 when, in a live auction, state Mexico, Malaysiaand West Africa, although The contracts are among the first major permitshad to be obtained from customers mature elds production facility, FPF1, which formerly operator PEMEX chose us to redevelop we have also strengthened our position in awards made under Saudi Aramcos severalgovernment departments.
t Training Services develops and manages belonged entirely to Petrofac but which is theworlds largest oil and gas province: In-Kingdom EPC programme, which capability plans for customers, builds and now 75% owned by our co-venturers in and increase production at Magallanes Saudi Arabia.
requiresbidders to meet local content The completion of the jetty saved time.
US$89bn operates training facilities currently 14 Greater Stella, Ithaca and Dyas and Santuario, two mature onshore andtraining requirements.
Total CAPEX in 2012 facilities in seven countries and delivers blocks that have been in operation since Italso meant equipment arrived without around 200,000 training days annually Meeting new challenges the early 1960s.
Mexico difficulty and demonstrated Petrofacs Offshore E&P CAPEX by region US$ bn IESs growth is fostering opportunities In August 2011, Petrofac became the first Meeting new challenges innovative and responsive service.
Within IES we offer our services within three andchallenges that are changing the way Petrofac completed the safe transition of foreign company in more than 70 years to Some of our new geographies have Additionally, it will be of long-term broad commercial models: wework.
thetwo blocks from PEMEX in a record run a Mexican oil eld, when the state oil challenging social and political environments.
company PEMEX awarded us 25-year To ensure operations run safely and Risk Service Contracts RSCs : Petrofac For example, increased upstream activity Atthesame time, among other integrated Production Service Contracts for smoothly, we assess and monitor aspects The Majnoon eld engineering, 3 manages the development of an asset, requires us to expand our capabilities in challenges, we opened an ofce: the Magallanes and Santuario blocks in such as security, social impacts and legal procurement, fabrication and operates and maintains that asset and areas such as subsurface, specialist drilling Tabasco State.
Since then, Petrofachas andcompliance laws in each location and  services 13 Eastern Europe & CIS investscapital in the project.
The capital is and asset management.
To meet this need, established an operating infrastructure: wontwo other integrated Production Service deploy appropriate protocols and procedures contract, in Southern Iraq, isoneof four 18 reimbursed, generally from production cash we have built a technical centre in Woking, recruited 140 staff: established more Contracts, each 30-years long: one, to protect our people and assets.
11 ows, with a return based on our UK and are constructing another in Delhi, than100 procurement contracts Iraqi contracts we have won, including Western Europe performance across factors such as India.
andobtained licences and permits inpartnership with Schlumberger, for the two in 2012, sincewe beganoperations North America Asia schedule, cost and operational performance.
Pnuco Contract Area in Veracruz State, Looking ahead there in2010.
9 NOCs often require us to use and develop thesecond, to develop theArenque Going forward, we intend to grow Production Enhancement Contracts local staff.
Consequently, we are developing In 2012 Petrofac won two further PEMEX ContractArea, offshore Mexico.
ouractivities in recently-entered 18 Middle East PECs : Petrofac takes over the operation of our already strong focus on in-country contracts: one, in partnership with countriesand move into new markets.
a mature asset, defines and executes and training and recruitment.
This investment Schlumberger, for the Pnuco Contract Malaysia Potential geographies include: other invests in its redevelopment plan.
We earn inlocal workforces complements our Area in Veracruz State, the second, In Malaysia, in October 2012, we introduced countries in theCommonwealth of Africa strategic commitment to deliver social first gas at the offshore Berantai eld under Independent States, Indonesia and areturn from a tariff per barrel paid on an forthe Arenque Contract Area, our Risk Service Contract with PETRONAS.
3 agreed baseline and on incremental investmentprogrammes in host communities.
In addition, we completed the upgrade of the 14 production.
Insome cases the return is The increasingly long-term nature of NOC Australasia recovered completely through the tariff: contracts, makes such close community Latin America inother cases, a portion of our capital is relationships essential.
1 On a fully diluted basis assuming the full conversion of all convertible securities reimbursed immediately and consequently and exercise of all outstanding warrants and options.
the incremental tariff is lower.
Source: Douglas Westwood, 2013 Geographic expansion Offshore capability Implementing IES strategy Go to page 13 Go to page 15 Go to page 17
