Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 49 Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Risk Transfer Arrangements The transfer of risks to the insurance market may be affected and influenced by constraints on theavailability of cover, market appetite and capacity, price, and the propensity of an insurer to Insurance Programme coverage respond to notications and claims, which means that the Group could be exposed to material uninsured losses.
Some risks associated with Petrofacs activities cannot or may not be reasonably or economically insured.
Petrofac may therefore incur significant losses from risks thatare not covered by insurance.
Petrofac maintains an insurance programme to provide mitigation against significant losses, whichis consistent with general industry practice.
The insurance programme incorporates a captive insurance vehicle.
Policies purchased are subject to certain limits, deductibles and specicterms and conditions.
In addition, insurance premium costs are subject to changes based on a companys loss experience, the overall loss experience of the insurance markets accessed, and capacity constraints.
Organisation and Petrofacs performance, operating results and future growth, depend to a large extent on its See people and successionrisk continued ability to attract, retain, motivate and organise appropriately qualied personnel resourcing on pages withthelevel of expertise and knowledge necessary to conduct its operations effectively.
52to 54 for progress The availability of sufciently Competitionfor talented, suitably experienced and qualied management and employees is during 2012. skilled experienced and capable intense across the sector for specialists in oil and gas.
personnel, particularly at senior level, remains one of the most Petrofac has aggressive targets for growth and anticipates a further increase in the number of significant challenges facing employees in the next five years.
We are therefore evolving a more systematic approach to theoil and gas industry.
resourcing to ensure we can meet our short and long-term human resource needs.
We regularly review our resourcing demand models which underpin the Groups business plans and aim to identify the best people through talent and performance management, linked to effective succession planning and recruitment.
We remain confident that our policies to attract, promote and reward on merit, targeted, butextensive, employee share ownership, management and technical training programmes, andaccess to international labour markets, will enable us to attract and retain the necessary skilledpersonnel to undertake our projects in hand.
Ethical, social and regulatory Major breach of our Our Code of Conduct sets out the behaviours we expect of our employees and third parties See our Ethical, Social Code ofConduct working with and or for us, such as suppliers, contractors, agents and partners.
We are and Regulatory Risk committed to complying with all applicable legal requirements and working to the highest Policy available on Working with third parties, ethical standards.
In 2012 we also strengthened our management of the social impacts of our ourwebsite: communities, workforce operations on directly affected communities by introducing a Social Performance Standard.
com We seek assurances that all third parties, over whom we have responsibility or who are acting governancedownloads under our direction, conduct their business with us in a manner that is consistent with our Code of Conduct and the principles set out in our Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk policy, our Social Performance Standard.
External Affairs risk reviews also help to target specic areas of threat andensure that we put appropriate controls in place.
We take appropriate measures to understand the social risks and impacts of our business activities and take steps to mitigate these risks by engaging with, supporting and investing in thelocal communities affected by our operations.
Major regulatory breach, Petrofacs business activities are conducted in many countries and are therefore subject to a See page 57 for details including bribery and broad range of legislation and regulations.
of our compliance and corruption training programme in The Company has an anti-corruption compliance programme which seeks to manage relation to anti-bribery We recognise the potential corruptionrisk across the Groups business activities.
The compliance programme includes and corruption.
financial and reputational risk components which recognise the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and which focus that could result from a breach ontraining, monitoring, risk management and due diligence.
See our Bribery and of local or international laws, Corruption Standard Management takes a risk-based approach to due diligence and risk assessment and has particularly in respect of available on our increased the level of due diligence undertaken in respect of new contracts in pre-dened behaviour relating to bribery website: high-risk countries, including commissioning independent investigation where appropriate.
Wealso regularly review external corruption ratings before entering a particular country www.
governancedownloads We continue to emphasise our independently managed whistleblowing line Speak Up, availableto all employees as well as third parties, and are committed to the investigation of allsuspected breaches to our Code of Conduct.
