18 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Our business 19 How we deliver For more than three decades Petrofac has been serving the international oil and gasindustry.
20 Our business model The scale and depth of Petrofacs capabilities enable us to provide services to our customers across the life cycle of oil and gas assets.
22 Our Fit for 2015 programme Our internal improvement programme was launched in early 2012, nd out how it will help us meet our future goals.
24 Senior management team Meet our senior management team.
26 Operating environment The key drivers of capital and operational expenditures should ensure that demand for our services remains strong.
28 Safety and integrity Nothing is more important to Petrofac than safety.
The safety of our people and the plants we build and operate are critical to the continued success of our Group.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 19 How we deliver Petrofac has been serving the international oil and gas industry since 1981.
From our origins as a Texas-based producer of modular Customer focus plant, we have grown to become a leading FTSE 100 Our teams put customer focus at the heart ofservice company, with operations in 29 countries.
Driven by our core values, Petrofac people aim to three decades, we have developed a wide range of skills anticipate problems before they arise and always try to and capabilities, which we use to help our customers, respond to customer needs quickly and effectively, thehydrocarbon resource holders, to develop and unlock however demanding the challenge.
the value of new and existing oil and gas assets, both on and offshore.
Our two divisions, ECOM and IES, provide services on either a stand-alone or integrated basis, with the ultimate Through our two divisions, Engineering, Construction, aim of helping our customers solve their energy Operations & Maintenance ECOM and Integrated challenges as effectively as possible.
Energy Services IES, we design and build oil and gas facilities, operate, maintain and manage assets, train personnel and enhance production.
In addition, we Commercial exibility develop and co-invest in upstream and infrastructure Our commercial frameworks are designed to provide projects where we can leverage the wider service aexible approach to meeting our customers needs.
Weoffer our customers a range of commercial propositions from reimbursable and cost plus KPIs tomodels where we share the investment and risks Our approach involved, and are designed todeliver differentiated Across the world, our services are characterised by our returns.
Formore information onour commercial models, approach to local delivery, our customer focus and seepage 20. ourexible commercial frameworks.
Local delivery At Petrofac, we believe in working in partnership with customers, partners and suppliers within the communities where we operate.
Our global workforce of more than 18,000 staff, drawnfrom around 80 nationalities, highlights our commitment toemploying and developing local resources.
Nationalworkforce development is often a keyconsideration for our customers.
Our training and competence development programmes, facilitated byourTraining Services business, can be tailored to meetorganisational or project capability objectives and weofferlanguage, skills and competence programmes alongside engineering, procurement and construction EPC or development projects.
