12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Delivering Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 13 From our inception in the US in the 1980s and our first international push into theMiddle East in the 1990s, Petrofac now has operations inmany countries.
Continuing this trajectory of careful geographic expansion is one of our strategicpriorities.
Our rationale MOPU for the West Desaru eld and made As a young company, we still have a relatively significant progress on the second phase concentrated geographic footprint and a ofCendor.
Our Training Services business natural part of our growth strategy will be to also formed a strategic partnership with look at new regions where we believe we PETRONAS to design and build two training canwin and deliver business successfully.
Achange in government or policy can create fresh opportunities and the discovery of new West Africa oil and gas elds cangenerate further options Petrofac built on its presence in Nigeria in for us.
Expansionindifferent markets also 2012 with a new relationship in West Africa.
makesPetrofac more resilient to particular In November, we signed a strategic alliance challenges in individual regions, ensuring with Bowleven, an Africa-focused oil and theoverall Group portfolio remains robust.
gascompany, to support the proposed development of theEtinde Permit, offshore Our approach Cameroon.
These steps complement our 1 We are selective and careful when expanding 24.1% interest in Seven Energy, a Nigerian in new markets.
Transporting goods by road in Iraq canbe challenging, complex and We select geographies that have significant Saudi Arabia time-consuming.
hydrocarbon reserves and then assess In 2012, Petrofac expanded its operations in whether we can do business safely and Saudi Arabia with four new projects.
In July, To solve this problem, the Petrofac responsibly in that country.
After this we we won two engineering, procurement teamworking on the Majnoon eld focus on areas where we believe Petrofac andconstruction EPC awards for Phase II development, for Shell Iraq Petroleum can build a differentiated business: where our ofthe petrochemical expansion project for Development BV, constructed a bespoke mix of innovative contract options, preference Petro Rabigh, a domestic company in which jetty, to enable essential equipment fordelivering with local partners, and ability national oil company Saudi Aramco and  instead.
totrain and develop local workforces, Sumitomo Chemical Company of Japan Therewere many challenges: the local couldmake us particularly effective.
Then, in December, Shatt Al Arab River, which had not SaudiAramco awarded us two further EPC beenused commercially for 30 years, Our progress contracts, totalling US$1.4 billion, for its hadto bedredged: the team needed We are particularly proud of the progress Jazan renery and terminal development.
tofamiliarise itself with water levels, wehave made over the last 12 months in owrates and loading data: and Mexico, Malaysiaand West Africa, although The contracts are among the first major permitshad to be obtained from we have also strengthened our position in awards made under Saudi Aramcos severalgovernment departments.
theworlds largest oil and gas province: In-Kingdom EPC programme, which Saudi Arabia.
requiresbidders to meet local content The completion of the jetty saved time.
Italso meant equipment arrived without Mexico difficulty and demonstrated Petrofacs In August 2011, Petrofac became the first Meeting new challenges innovative and responsive service.
foreign company in more than 70 years to Some of our new geographies have Additionally, it will be of long-term run a Mexican oil eld, when the state oil challenging social and political environments.
company PEMEX awarded us 25-year To ensure operations run safely and integrated Production Service Contracts for smoothly, we assess and monitor aspects The Majnoon eld engineering, the Magallanes and Santuario blocks in such as security, social impacts and legal procurement, fabrication and Tabasco State.
Since then, Petrofachas andcompliance laws in each location and  services wontwo other integrated Production Service deploy appropriate protocols and procedures contract, in Southern Iraq, isoneof four Contracts, each 30-years long: one, to protect our people and assets.
Iraqi contracts we have won, including inpartnership with Schlumberger, for the two in 2012, sincewe beganoperations Pnuco Contract Area in Veracruz State, Looking ahead there in2010.
thesecond, to develop theArenque Going forward, we intend to grow ContractArea, offshore Mexico.
ouractivities in recently-entered countriesand move into new markets.
Malaysia Potential geographies include: other In Malaysia, in October 2012, we introduced countries in theCommonwealth of first gas at the offshore Berantai eld under Independent States, Indonesia and our Risk Service Contract with PETRONAS.
In addition, we completed the upgrade of the 1 On a fully diluted basis assuming the full conversion of all convertible securities and exercise of all outstanding warrants and options.
