Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Recruitment and Training The Group recognises that one of the Schneerson, Director of Gidrometallurgiya The majority of students are native to the Amur challenges faced by the global gold mining R&D Centre.
Mr Kudrin has first-hand region and most are aged between 18 and 24. industry is a shortage of trained workers with managerial experience of running a POX plant However, the College does also take on the requisite specic skills.
As it expands and due to his previous role as Deputy Director mature students wishing to retrain or update develops, the Group will need to employ for Production and Operations at the their current level of knowledge in their chosen personnel who will have the necessary skills Nadezhdinskiy plant in Norilsk, which uses career and does not discriminate against age and qualications to enable the Group to a similar technology for extracting nickel.
The training structure is dened by full its mission.
Professor Yakov Schneerson is one of the two major factors: a public contract from the worlds leading specialists in autoclave Ministry of Education and Science of the Amur In order to mitigate the human resources technology who has published more than 300 Region and enterprises of the Group.
risk of a lack of skilled personnel, the Group scientific papers and books and previously has adopted a programme of investment worked extensively on the commissioning and In 2012, 2,121 students were enrolled in the in educational projects and institutions operation of the Nadezhdinskiy plant in Norilsk.
College, 723 graduated in 2012 totalling in the regions in which it operates.
In turn, approximately 1,800 graduates over five years.
this provides local people with career Additional tutorials are supplied by specialists Upon successful completion of training, opportunities and improved prospects from the Groups partners, Outotec, and 99% of the Colleges graduates are employed in regions with historically high levels equipment suppliers.
The majority of the of unemployment.
former students continue their career working The Pokrovskiy Mining College at Pokrovskiy, Malomir and Albyn.
Career development opportunities The Pokrovskiy Mining College the College The Group remains committed to providing is a residential and day-college situated close Elena Kiparisova current and potential employees with career to the Pokrovskiy mine.
The College was Caterpillar truck driver, Pioneer development opportunities.
established by the Group in 2007 with the I started my career as a cashier at Zeya aim of providing specialist training for future railway station.
One In line with this commitment, in 2012, 34 Group employees.
The College aims to day, I saw an advertisement on TV for the students received sponsorship or bursaries provide employment to graduates and, Pokrovskiy Mining College.
The advert was from the Group in order to train at higher therefore, it is of considerable benefit, not only particularly aimed at women, encouraging education institutions.
Of this gure, 28 are to the Group, but also to the economy of the them to become heavy truck drivers.
The currently employed by the Group, improving Amur region.
In accordance with its licence, advert stated that subsequent employment, their skills in their chosen eld.
The number the College is certied to offer training in more with a competitive salary, could then be of students receiving Group sponsorship than 40 mining professions.
found at one of Petropavlovsks mines.
My uctuates year-on-year depending not only mind was immediately made up to enrol!
on the needs of the Group, but also on Each course is tailored in consultation with As I could drive a car already, I thought that individuals needs: for example, whether Group management to ensure that it is directly I would be able to manage to drive a truck they feel they have completed training suited to the Groups human resources needs as well.
In line with this, the Colleges syllabus has been adapted for Training ahead of POX commissioning training personnel ahead of the commissioning The Group has a policy in place to select and of the POX Hub.
train future line managers and operators for the POX Hub in-house.
The Group has worked with the College to develop a dedicated course designed to In-house training is conducted at the Groups train future POX plant operatives.
The course pilot test plant, at the Pokrovskiy Mining covers an extensive range of topics including College and at the Groups dedicated research both general information regarding gold ores centre, Gidrometallurgiya.
Training involves and methods of their treatment, as well as a mixture of theoretical classes and seminars specic topics relating to the POX Hub, such and is conducted under the supervision of as the technological parameters and operating the Groups own industry experts, including procedures of the autoclaves and oxygen Evgeniy Kudrin, Technical Director of the plant, safety procedures and environmental management systems.
Pokrovskiy POX Plant and Professor Yakov Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 59
