Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Values and Commitments Approach to Sustainability Petropavlovsk is aligning itself with Provision of good working facilities, At Petropavlovsk, our objective is to act international standards and codes of high-quality equipment, and suitable living conditions at the Groups in the interests of our stakeholders, including practice to ensure the high standard and mining operations: shareholders, employees and the integrity of its operations.
These include: communities in which we operate, by Provision of appropriate and high-quality The Global Reporting Initiative ensuring all our activities are efficient, training for its employees and GRI : The Group is implementing responsible, transparent and sustainable.
opportunities for career development: reporting systems in accordance with the GRI.
Investment in initiatives to support We seek to provide a fair return to our education in the regions where the shareholders.
We aim to ensure a safe The Sustainable Development Group operates: working environment and just remuneration Framework of the International for our employees.
We play an important Promotion of the social and economic Council of Mining and Metals role in the regions where the Group operates development of these regions both ICMM : The Group is striving to and seek to contribute to their economic through the widening scope of the align its practices with the Sustainable and social development.
We give high Groups operations and with the Development Framework.
priority to our responsibilities to local assistance of the Petropavlovsk communities and enjoy their active support.
Foundation for Social Investment: The International Cyanide We believe that mining companies have Management Code ICMM : An active dialogue with local a particular responsibility to care for the The Group is aligning its cyanide communities and local and regional environment and to mitigate the impact usage with the procedures and authorities to maintain a transparent of their operations.
two-way ow of information and Sustainable development has been a key to sustain long-term, constructive The International Finance focus for the Group since its foundation.
relationships between the Group Corporation IFC : IFC is an investor and these communities: in the Group and has reviewed the Groups operations most recently in Fair and supportive management, July 2011.
Petropavlovsk seeks to with appropriate procedures in place work to IFC standards.
for handling disputes and grievances: Zero tolerance of bribery and corruption In its management and its operations, and strict compliance with the relevant Petropavlovsk is committed to: legislation of the Russian Federation Full compliance with the legislation and the United Kingdom: and of the Russian Federation: The on-going development of mine A rigorous approach to health and safety, closure plans.
underpinned by close scrutiny by the Board and management.
The Groups objective is to minimise the risk of accidents and of occupational illnesses, and to aim for zero fatalities.
All accidents are recorded, and all serious accidents are investigated: A rigorous approach to environmental standards, implemented both through internal compliance measures and through external expert auditing and monitoring: Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 53
