Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2012 Report and financial statements Post balance sheet events Shareholders Agreement are also required The Directors present their report and the Proposed issue of shares by IRC to use their voting and procurement powers audited financial statements for the year On 17 January 2013, IRC entered into to give effect to the provisions of the ended 31 December 2012. conditional subscription agreements with Shareholders Agreement.
each of General Nice Development Limited Principal activities and future General Nice and Minmetals Cheerglory The Indemnity addresses the situation that development Limited Minmetals collectively the the Company will remain liable to guarantee all The principal activities of the Group, which are Investors for a proposed aggregate of K&Ss obligations under K&Ss loan facility mainly based in Russia, during the year were: investment by General Nice and Minmetals with ICBC the Bank Guarantee.
Although in new shares of IRC for up to approximately the Company will remain liable to ICBC under Gold mining at the Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, US$238 million.
In addition, IRC has also this Bank Guarantee, it will have a contractual Malomir and Albyn mines: entered into a long-term offtake arrangements right to recover a proportion based on the Gold mining from the Groups alluvial with General Nice and Minmetals in respect relative holdings of the Company and General operations: of the IRC Groups products.
Nice in IRC of any sums paid by the Company under the guarantee or pursuant to the terms Exploration at, near, or adjacent to the The Company has also entered into a of a recourse agreement entered into between Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn Shareholders Agreement with the Investors the Company, IRC and K&S on 13 December mines, adding to the Groups JORC Mineral and an Indemnity with General Nice, which 2010 throughout the Indemnity if the Resources: will come into effect upon full completion of transaction is fully implemented.
A fee will The development of the Groups POX Hub the transaction.
The term of the Shareholders become payable by IRC to the Company in at the Pokrovskiy mine and the related Agreement is from the date of the completion respect of the provision by the Company of otation plant at the Malomir mine: of the transaction until the earlier of i the the Bank Guarantee if IRC is fide-consolidated Groups relevant interest as calculated in from Petropavlovsk in its accounts: this fee The commissioning of the second 1.8Mtpa accordance with the Shareholders will be shared with General Nice under the capacity RIP milling line at Albyn and the Agreement in IRC shares or the interest indemnity arrangements.
fourth 2.0Mtpa milling line at Pioneer: and of General Nice and Minmetals becoming Evaluation of potential business less than five per cent and ii a party being In addition, the Shareholders Agreement opportunities.
in material breach of the Shareholders provides that General Nice and Minmetals will Agreement and a non-defaulting part use its respective reasonable efforts to assist The principal activities of IRC, during the electing to terminate it.
the Company with the removal or reduction year were: of its obligations under the Bank Guarantee.
The Shareholders Agreement contains Iron ore production at Kuranakh mine provisions including certain rights for both Hedging agreements consisting of the Kuranakh and Saikta Petropavlovsk and the Investors for In February 2013, the Group entered deposits located in the Amur Region nomination of i directors to the board of IRC into nancing contracts to sell a total of of Russia: and and ii members to the IRC board executive 399,000oz of gold over a period of 14 months ending in March 2014 at an average price The exploration and development of committee, depending on their actual or of US$1,663 oz.
iron-related Reserves and Resources, relative holding of IRC shares, restrictions including the continuation of the K&S subject to certain exceptions in dealing in, Further details are set out in note 35 to project due to be commissioned in 2014, inter alia, IRC shares for a one year lock-up the Consolidated Financial Statements.
the Garinskoye project and the Bolshoi period following full completion of the Seym project.
transaction and subsequent notication Dividends obligations : and obligations in respect of As the business of the Company develops, Plans for future developments are included certain actual or prospective agreements and subject to the availability of distributable in the Chairman's Statement on pages between the parties and IRC.
The Company reserves, the Directors intend to pursue a 2 to 4. and the Investors have given mutual dividend policy which reects the Company's undertakings not to, and will procure that cash ow and earnings, while maintaining an parties acting in concert with it will not, acquire appropriate level of dividend cover and having voting rights in IRC which would result in an regard to further funding the development obligation to make a mandatory general offer of the Companys activities.
by any or all of Petropavlovsk and the Investors in accordance with the Hong Kong Code on Takeovers and Mergers issued by the The Directors recommend a final dividend for Securities and Futures Commission of Hong 2012 comprising a cash payment of 0.02 per Kong, or in the case of the IRC, as also Ordinary Share together with an entitlement to required by the listing rules of the Stock new shares with an attributable value of 0.05.
The parties of the Each eligible shareholder will accordingly be 80 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements As at 1 January 2012 As at 31 December 2012 As at 27 March 2013 Ordinary Shares % of issued Ordinary Shares % of issued Ordinary Shares % of issued of 0.01 each share capital of 0.01 each share capital of 0.01 each share capital Dr Graham Birch 10,000 0.005% 10,000 0.005% 10,000 0.005% 1 Mr Brian Egan Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Sir Malcolm Field 50,312 0.03% 50,312 0.03% 50,312 0.03% Lord Guthrie Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Peter Hambro and Associates 8,672,558 4.62% 8,672,558 4.62% 8,672,558 4.62% Sir Roderic Lyne 1,625 0.001% 1,625 0.001% 1,625 0.001% Mr Sergey Ermolenko 302,500 0.161% 302,500 0.161% 302,500 0.161% 2 Ms Rachel English N A N A Nil Nil Nil Nil Mr Andrey Maruta and Associates 3,333 0.0018% 3,333 0.0018% 3,333 0.0018% Mr Charles McVeigh 500 0.00% 500 0.00% 500 0.00% Dr Alya Samokhvalova Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Mr Martin Smith Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Dr David Humphreys and Associates 1,820 0.0010% 1,820 0.0010% 1,820 0.0010% 1 Mr Brian Egan resigned as a Director on 13 April 2012, hence the number of shares shown as at 31 December 2012 represents the number of shares held as at the date of his resignation.
2 Ms Rachel English was appointed as a Director on 28 March 2012. entitled to receive, in addition to the cash Business review and Group results Research and development dividend, such number rounded down to the Under Section 417 of the Companies Act Companies within the Group carry out nearest whole number of Ordinary Shares as 2006, the Directors are required to prepare exploration, development and analysis shall have an aggregate value at the Relevant a business review.
This comprises of the work necessary to support their activities.
Price as dened below equal to 0.05 following, each of which are incorporated multiplied by the number of Ordinary Shares by reference into, and form part of, this Further information is given in the Strategy in respect of which they are entitled to receive Directors Report: & Performance Overview, Operations & a dividend.
The Relevant Price is expected to Development and Exploration, Reserves & Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4: be the average of the middle market Resources sections on pages 2 to 49, which quotations of an Ordinary Share, as derived Business Model & Strategy on pages 5 to 7: form part of this Directors Report.
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial Gold market on pages 8 to 9: List, for the five consecutive dealing days Sustainability commencing on the day on which the Ordinary Our Key Performance Indicators on pages Information is contained in the Sustainability section on pages 50 to 63.
Shares are first quoted ex the dividend 10 to 13: entitlement.
The dividend package is subject Chief Financial Ofcers Statement on Directors to approval by shareholders at the 2013 pages 14 to 23: The current Directors of the Company, at Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 June the date of this report, and their biographical 2013.
If approved by shareholders, the cash Operations & Development on pages 24 to 37: details appear on pages 78 to 79 and are dividend is expected to be paid, and the new Exploration, Reserves & Resources on incorporated into this report by reference.
Ordinary Shares are expected to be issued, pages 38 to 49: Subject to the following, all of the Directors on 26 July 2013 to shareholders on the register held ofce throughout the year ended as at 28 June 2013.
The associated exSustainability on pages 50 to 63: 31 December 2012. dividend date will be 26 June 2013.
Further The Report of the Risk Committee on pages information has been provided to shareholders 66 to 77: Mr Brian Egan resigned as Chief Financial together with the notice of the Annual The Corporate Governance Report on officer and Mr Andrey Maruta was appointed General Meeting which has been posted to pages 86 to 93: as Chief Financial officer on 13 April 2012. shareholders together with this Annual Report.
Mr Maruta previously held the main Board The Directors Remuneration Report on position of Finance Director Russia.
Ms pages 94 to 111: and Rachel English was appointed to the Board as The Audit Committee Report on pages a Non-Executive Director on 28 March 2012.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 81 Directors Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 With regard to the appointment and Going concern Report on pages 66 to 77, which forms part replacement of Directors, the Company The Group monitors and manages its liquidity of this Directors Report.
is governed by its Articles of Association, risk on an on-going basis.
Cash forecasts are the UK Corporate Governance Code, the regularly produced and sensitivities run for Supplier payment policy Companies Act 2006, and related legislation.
different scenarios including, but not limited It is Group policy to agree and clearly Directors may be appointed by the Company to, changes in commodity prices, different communicate the terms of payment as part by ordinary resolution or by the Board, production rates from the Groups producing of the commercial arrangement negotiated on recommendation of the Nomination assets and the timing of expenditure on with suppliers and then to pay according to Committee.
A Director appointed by the Board development projects.
The Group meets its those terms based upon receipt of an accurate holds ofce only until the following annual capital requirements through a combination invoice.
Trade creditor days for the year ended general meeting and is then eligible for election of sources, including cash generated from 31 December 2012 were 35 days on average by the shareholders, but is not taken into operations and external debt.
for the Group 2011: 35 and 23 days on account in determining the Directors, or the average for the Company 2011: 23. number of Directors who are to retire by In a declining gold price environment, the rotation at that meeting.
Group may be exposed to breaches of certain Donations financial covenants.
As part of a number of No political donations were made and no In accordance with the requirements of the alternatives to proactively address this risk, political expenditure was incurred during UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors the Group has entered into nancing contracts the year 2011: US$nil.
Sponsorship and will stand for election at the 2013 AGM.
to secure the average realised gold price for charitable donations amounted to US$2.6 The Company may, in accordance with and a total of 399,000oz of gold over the period million 2011: US$3.4 million.
During the year, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act of 14 months ending in March 2014 at the the Group continued to provide its charitable 2006, by ordinary resolution, of which special level of US$1,663 oz note 35, page 167 financial support through the Petropavlovsk notice has been given, remove any Director and negotiated the investment in IRC Limited Foundation for Social Investment the before the expiration of his her term of ofce.
note 35, page 168, which will have the impact Foundation, which was established in 2010 Further information on the appointments to the of deconsolidating IRC and its debt.
to coordinate the Groups social investment in Board is set out in the Corporate Governance the Russian Far East.
The Foundation is a non-commercial and charitable organisation Report on page 86.
Taking into the account of the aforementioned which nances cultural, educational and other and further mitigating actions that the Group social activities in the Russian Far East region.
Directors interests could take in the event of adverse changes, The Group regards the provision of charitable The interests of the Directors in the share the Group expects to be able to operate donations as an important part of its strategy capital of the Company at the beginning, at the within the level of its secured facilities for to maintain good working relationships with end of the year, and as at the date of this report the subsequent 12 months from the date local authorities and local communities.
are as detailed in the table on page 81. of approval of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the Groups charitable activities are There have been no changes to the interests set out in the Sustainability section on pages of the Directors between 1 January 2013 and Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable 62 to 63 of this Annual Report.
the date of this Directors Report.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence Corporate governance and Details of the awards made to Directors for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue shareholder relations under the Companys Long-Term Incentive to adopt the going concern basis of The Corporate Governance Statement Plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration accounting in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
on pages 86 to 93 has been prepared in Report on pages 101 to 105. accordance with Rule 7.2 of the FSAs Key performance indicators Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Risks and uncertainties The Companys performance is measured forms part of this Directors Report.
Risk is inevitable in business and the Group against the Key Performance Indicators faces many risks, some are specic to the KPIs as contained on pages 10 to 13.
Details of the Companys compliance with Group, some relate to the Groups industry, the UK Corporate Governance Code, some are Russia-related and some relate to Financial instruments and financial including relations with shareholders, are set the environment in which the Group operates.
risk management out in the Corporate Governance Report on These are further discussed in the Report Details of the Groups financial risk pages 89 to 90. of the Risk Committee, which contains a management objectives and policies and summary of the Groups Principal Risks on exposure to risk are described in note 32 to the pages 68 to 77, which forms part of this Financial Statements and in the Principal Risks Directors Report.
82 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Employees The following significant agreements contain Conicts of interest The Group maintains a policy of providing certain termination and other rights for the Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors employees with information about the counterparties of the Group companies upon are subject to a statutory duty to avoid a Company and regular meetings are held a change of control of the Company.
situation where they have, or can have, a between management and employees to direct or indirect interest that conicts, or allow exchanges of information and ideas.
Pursuant to the issue of US$380 million may possibly conict, with the interests Further information of the Groups consultation 4.00% guaranteed convertible bonds due of the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 with employees and sharing of information on 18 February 2015 the Bonds issued allows directors of public companies to is contained in the Sustainability section by Petropavlovsk 2010 Limited the Issuer authorise conicts and potential conicts of this report.
on 18 February 2010 and guaranteed by the of interest of directors where the articles of Company, upon a change of control over the association contain a provision to that effect.
The Group is committed to providing equal Company constituting a Relevant Event as The Companys Articles of Association afford opportunity for individuals in all aspects dened in the Terms and Conditions of the the Directors such powers.
In addition, the of employment.
The Group gives every Bonds and the Articles of Association of the Directors will be able to impose limits or consideration to applications for employment Issuer, the exchange price of the shares of conditions when giving any authorisation, by disabled persons where the requirements the Company shall be adjusted in accordance if they think this is appropriate.
Directors of of the job may be adequately lled by a with the formula contained in the Terms and the Company who have an interest in matters disabled person.
Where existing employees Conditions of the Bonds and the Bondholders under discussion at Board meetings are required to declare this interest and, subject become disabled, it is the Groups policy, have the right to require the redemption of the to certain exceptions, to abstain from voting wherever practicable, to provide continuing Bonds at their principal amount plus accrued on the relevant matters.
Any material related employment under similar terms and and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
party transactions will be approved by a conditions and to provide training, committee of the Board consisting solely career development and promotion, Pursuant to an up to US$340 million Credit of independent Directors.
Facility dated 13 December 2010 ICBC Loan between Industrial and Commercial The Directors have reviewed the interests Directors indemnities Bank of China Limited, ZAO Industrial and declared by Directors which could conict with A qualifying third-party indemnity provision, Commercial Bank of China Moscow as the those of the Company, and are satisfied that as dened in Section 234 of the Companies lenders and LLC Kimkano-Sutarskiy Mining the Boards power to authorise potential Act 2006, is in force for the benefit of the and Benecation Plant as borrower and the conicts is operating effectively.
Directors in respect of liabilities incurred as Company as guarantor, if any person or group a result of their ofce to the extent permitted of persons acting in concert gains control of Amendment of Articles of Association by law.
In respect of those liabilities for the Company, the lenders may cancel the total The Companys Articles of Association may which Directors may not be indemnified, commitments under the ICBC Loan and may be amended by special resolution of the Company maintained a directors accelerate all amounts outstanding under the shareholders.
and ofcers liability insurance policy ICBC Loan so that they become immediately throughout the financial year.
Capital structure Details of the Companys issued share capital significant agreements change Powers of Directors is shown in note 23 on page 153.
No shares of control Subject to the Companys Articles of were issued during the year.
The Company A change of control of the Company following Association, the prevailing legislation and has one class of Ordinary Share, which carries a takeover may cause a number of any directions given by special resolution, the no rights to xed income.
agreements to which the Company, or any of business and affairs of the Company will be its subsidiaries, is party, such as commercial managed by the Directors who may exercise all Rights and obligations attaching to Ordinary trading contracts, joint venture agreements such powers of the Company.
The powers of Shares and banking arrangements to take effect, alter Directors are further described in the Schedule The rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares or terminate.
In the context of the potential of Matters reserved for the Board, copies of are governed by the Articles of Association impact on the Group, certain of these which are available on the Company's website and prevailing legislation.
There are no arrangements are considered to be significant.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 83 Directors Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 specic restrictions on the size of a holding.
Financial Services Authority, whereby Shares by a person with a 0.25% interest Subject to any rights or restrictions attached certain Directors, ofcers and employees of as dened in the Companys Articles to any Ordinary Shares, on a show of hands the Company require the approval to deal in of Association after failure to provide the every shareholder present in person or by the Ordinary Shares in accordance with the Company with information concerning proxy or being a corporation present by Companys share dealing rules.
interests in those shares required to be a duly authorised representative has one provided under the Companies Act 2006. vote, and on a poll every shareholder The Board may, in its absolute discretion who is present in person or by proxy has and without giving any reason, refuse The Board shall not refuse to register one vote for every Ordinary Share held to register any transfer of a share any transfer or renunciation of partly-paid by the shareholder.
or renunciation of a renounceable letter Ordinary Shares, which are listed on the of allotment unless: London Stock Exchange on the grounds Restrictions on voting that they are partly paid Ordinary Shares a it is in respect of a share which is fully in circumstances where such refusal No shareholder shall be entitled to vote paid up: would prevent dealings in such Ordinary at any general meeting or class meeting in b it is in respect of only one class of shares: Shares from taking place on an open respect of any Ordinary Shares held by him and proper basis.
if any call or other sum then payable by him c it is in favour of a single transferee or not in respect of that share remains unpaid.
more than four joint transferees: If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a Currently, all issued Ordinary Shares are fully d it is duly stamped if so required : and share it shall, within two months after the date paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled on which the transfer was lodged with the to vote if he or she failed to provide the e it is delivered for registration to the Company, send notice of the refusal to the Company with information concerning Companys registered ofce or such other transferee.
Any instrument of transfer which interests in those Ordinary Shares required to place as the Board may from time to time the Board refuses to register shall except in be provided under the Companies Act 2006. determine, accompanied except in the case the case of suspected or actual fraud be of a transfer by a recognised person where a returned to the person depositing it.
Deadlines for voting rights certicate has not been issued or in the case of a renunciation by the certicate for the Votes are exercisable at general meetings Shareholder agreements shares to which it relates and such other of the Company.
The notice of a general evidence as the Board may reasonably The Directors are not aware of any meeting will specify the deadline for require to prove the title of the transferor or agreements between holders of the appointing a proxy or proxies to vote person renouncing and the due execution Companys Ordinary Shares that may result in relation to resolutions to be passed of the transfer or renunciation by him or, if in restrictions on the transfer of securities at that meeting.
the transfer or renunciation is executed by or on voting rights or any arrangements by some other person on his or her behalf, which, with the Companys co-operation, Transfer of Ordinary Shares the authority of that person to do so.
financial rights carried by securities are held The transfer of Ordinary Shares is governed by a person other than the holder of the by the general provisions of the Companys Registration of a transfer of an uncerticated securities.
No person has any special rights Articles of Association and prevailing share may be refused in the circumstances of control over the Companys share capital.
There are no restrictions on the set out in the Uncerticated Securities transfer of the Ordinary Shares other than Regulations as dened in the Companys Ordinary Shares held by the Employee i as set out in the Articles of Association: Articles of Association.
benefit Trust ii certain restrictions which may from time Ordinary Shares held by the Petropavlovsks to time be imposed by laws and regulations Subject to certain exceptions, the Board Employee benefit Trust abstain from voting.
for example, insider trading laws : and may refuse to register a transfer of Ordinary iii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the 84 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Interests in voting rights Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at the year-end and the date of this report, the Company had been notied under DTR5 of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
31 December 2012 27 March 2013 % of issued % of issued Number of Ordinary Share Number of Ordinary Share Shareholder Ordinary Shares capital Ordinary Shares capital BlackRock Inc. 18,759,363 9.99% 18,759,363 9.99% Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund 7,750,000 4.13% 13,500,000 7.19% Norges Bank 7,523,884 4.01% 11,507,086 6.13% Peter Hambro & Associates 8,672,558 4.62% 8,672,558 4.62% Capital Research and Management Company 7,534,114 4.01% 7,534,114 4.01% As at 27 March 2013, the Company has not received any notication that any other person holds 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Capital structure continued Further details of the above proposals and This conrmation is given and should be resolutions are contained in the Notice of interpreted in accordance with the provisions Allotment of Ordinary Shares and Annual General Meeting, a copy of which has of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. disapplication of pre-emption rights.
been sent to shareholders together with this Annual Report.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness The Company has authority to issue to continue in ofce as auditors and a Ordinary Shares under its Articles of Deadlines for exercising voting rights resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed Association and an ordinary resolution Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
will be proposed at this years Annual the Company in respect of which the business General Meeting to authorise Directors being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may This report was approved by the Board of to allot Ordinary Shares up to a maximum be exercised in person, by proxy, or in Directors of Petropavlovsk PLC and signed aggregate nominal amount of 619,938. relation to corporate members, by corporate on its behalf by: This represents the aggregate of 33% representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline of the nominal value of the Ordinary for submission of proxy forms of not less than Amanda Whalley Shares in issue as at the date of this report.
48 hours before the time appointed for the Company Secretary A special resolution is to be proposed, holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
27 March 2013 which will disapply the statutory preemption rights for issues of Ordinary Auditors Shares for certain purposes.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date when Repurchase of Ordinary Shares this report was approved: The Company was granted authority to so far as each of the Directors is aware, repurchase up to 5% of its issued share there is no relevant audit information as capital at the Annual General Meeting held dened in the Companies Act 2006 of on 31 May 2012.
This authority will expire at which the Companys Auditors are unaware: the conclusion of this years Annual General and Meeting unless renewed at that meeting.
The Company has not made use of this each of the Directors has taken all the authority during the year under review.
steps that he she ought to have taken as The Board will seek shareholder approval a Director to make himself herself aware at this years Annual General Meeting for of any relevant audit information as dened the authority to repurchase up to 5% of and to establish that the Companys the issued share capital.
Auditors are aware of that information.
