What is POX and refractory ore?
Our Assets Refractory ore locks in gold particles, making it difficult or even impossible to extract the gold using conventional cyanide leaching methods, such as heap-leaching or processing through a resin-in-pulp RIP plant.
Pressure oxidation POX is considered to be the POX Hub most effective and  method for treating refractory ore, and for these reasons, was selected for implementation by the Group.
POX has been used worldwide in metals extraction since the 1950s, and in Russia since the 1970s, and there are a number of POX plants for gold extraction operational worldwide.
The Group is turning its Pokrovskiy mine The new POX facility will utilise sections of the POX plant design into a regional hub, which will use POX existing Pokrovskiy RIP plant.
Existing mills will The Pokrovskiy POX plant will be the largest and most advanced of its kind in Russia.
technology to extract gold from refractory be used to re-grind refractory concentrate and material, which constitutes approximately to prepare the lime.
The RIP circuit will be used The Pokrovskiy POX plant comprises of four half of the Groups current gold Reserves.
to recover gold after autoclave treatment.
The autoclaves, each weighing 116.5 tonnes with Approximately 70% of the Groups refractory dor smelting facility, plant laboratories and a length of 15m and a height of 4m, with an Reserves are located at the Malomir mine most of the auxiliary facilities will also be utilised, 3 effective volume of 66m and the remaining 30% at the Pioneer mine.
as they were during non-refractory production.
with a combined, Flotation concentrate from refractory ore from estimated capacity to process c. 400,000t of the Malomir and Pioneer mines is scheduled The Pokrovskiy site benets from an refractory concentrate a year.
The provision to be processed at the Pokrovskiy POX Hub, existing, qualied workforce and excellent, of four separate autoclave vessels provides starting from H1 2014 and H1 2015 existing infrastructure, including a power a large degree of operational exibility, as they respectively.
Ore will be converted at these supply, roads and close proximity to the enable concentrates from different sources, mines into a high-grade otation concentrate Trans-Siberian railway.
Unlike Malomir, bearing different properties, to be separately 4% to 5% of original volumes of ore then Pokrovskiy is conveniently located close and simultaneously processed without trucked by existing roads to Pokrovskiy for to a significant limestone deposit, which compromising on the gold recovery or the processing in high pressure autoclaves, is essential for neutralising chemicals productivity of the plant.
which are currently being installed.
After released in the POX process.
This was autoclave treatment, gold will be leached considered to be more cost-efficient and Pokrovskiys infrastructure close to and smelted into dor bars, utilising the  than trucking existing federal roads and c. 10km from Pokrovskiy mines current facilities.
the Trans-Siberian railway opens up opportunities to bring refractory concentrate Once commissioned, the Groups POX plant The location of the POX plant at Pokrovskiy for processing from other sources.
will be the largest and most technologically ensures the Group has adequate space for Thus the operational parameters of the plant advanced POX facility for processing gold in tailings dams, without a need to use a costly are designed to successfully recover gold Russia, able to extract gold from a wide range and often unreliable dry tailings technique.
from any known refractory gold deposit.
This will support long-term, The POX process is extremely sensitive sustainable gold production from the Malomir to chlorine ion concentration: storing large Quality control and assurance and Pioneer mines.
Given the scale of the volumes of water in a conventional tailings It is the Groups rm belief that strict and POX Hub and the abundance of undeveloped dam enables the Group to control the comprehensive quality control and assurance refractory gold deposits in Russia, particularly re-circulation of the processing water, is paramount for the successful and timely in the Russian Far East, the POX Hub also, minimising the possibility of a build-up delivery of such an ambitious and technically of the chlorine concentration.
potentially, opens a new dimension for the complex project.
The otation plants From the very beginning, the Group has To avoid the costly trucking of freshly-mined Advantages of a centralised hub employed what it considers to be the best ore to the Pokrovskiy site, ores will first be at Pokrovskiy technical experts available in Russia to upgraded to a high-grade concentrate using The centralisation of refractory processing, supervise the conceptual, and later, the otation.
Flotation is a process widely applied as opposed to developing smaller facilities detailed technical project design, as well in the industry to extract sulphides and other at each site, provides substantial savings on as project implementation.
Using this process, capital costs as well as operational benets.
approximately 95% of the barren minerals Pokrovskiy was chosen as a location for The Group employs Outotec Finland Oy may be rejected, reducing the mass sent a centralised hub, as it offered a number Outotec as its principal partner in delivering for downstream treatment to the remaining of practical and logistical advantages.
Outotec, together with the Groups approximate 5%.
Currently, the Group is experts, has carefully selected only reputable installing a otation plant at the Malomir and experienced manufacturers for all of the mine, scheduled for commissioning in principal equipment to be used in the POX Hub Q3 2013, and a otation plant at Pioneer, and related otation plants.
Outotec and the Groups representatives were supervising all stages of the manufacturers internal quality control.
The Group also engaged NDE Group to provide independent assurance of the manufacturers quality.
Go to pages 32 to 33 for more on the development of the Malomir otation plant Go to page 59 for more on employee training Go to page 61 for more on POX and the environment Go to page 68 for a description of the operational risk identied in relation to the POX Hub, its potential impact and the actions being undertaken by the Group to mitigate this risk 28 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements It is important to emphasise how exciting it has been working on a new technology which has the potential to revolutionise gold mining for decades to come.
We have left nothing to chance: from our choice of partners to the materials we have used at our facilities, we have always opted for the best.
We have dedicated much time and effort researching autoclave technology and optimising operational parameters at our specialist R&D centre and at our pilot POX plant.
Viktor Fedorov Head of Business Development POX Hub Gidrometallurgiya, which is equipped with Gold mine Railway miniature autoclave equipment and headed City or town Federal highway by a leading global expert in POX technology.
The pilot POX plant has enabled the Group to test how the materials selected for the full-scale plant will react in the aggressive, highly acidic, high temperature and high BAM Railway pressure environment.
Malomir otation plant During 2012, the Group continued to Tynda Zeya conduct test work and staff training, reducing Pioneer the technical risks associated with the POX otation plant project at its pilot POX plant.
The most significant test work included: The identication of measures to increase POX Hub at Pokrovskiy the resistance of equipment to the effects of corrosive materials: Trans-Siberian Khabarovsk China Railway A reduction in the negative effect of Birobidjan Blagoveschensk chlorine ions on the extraction of gold by using fresh water and perfecting the EAO technique of using recycled water with constant control of the chlorine content.
Using these results, the Group is making provisions for all the necessary equipment to measure and control 2012 on-site development identify any defects.
In addition, chlorine and other potential contaminants: During 2012, all the major equipment for the where practicable, the suitability of the POX plant was manufactured and delivered materials selected for the autoclave inner The treatment of POX otation to the Pokrovskiy site.
The installation of gear were tested in real operational concentrate with low, less than 0.6%, equipment is now well under way.
The four conditions using the Groups test autoclave.
organic carbon content: autoclave vessels were placed on their Perfecting a ltering technique for testing foundations and work is now progressing Construction work is being conducted conditioned autoclave slurry, conrming the on completing the autoclave building by the Groups specialist mine construction design capacity and the required number around them.
subsidiary, Kapstroi, and specialised of press-lters using a model percolator.
The oxygen plant building has been completed During 2013, the Group is intending to and all principal equipment has been installed Outotec will supervise and advise during conduct additional test work in order to ne and assembled.
Work is currently progressing the commissioning stage of the POX Hub.
tune the technical parameters during the on completing internal pipework and POX process such as the distribution of equipment interconnections.
Work has also Pilot test plant and other test work oxygen in sections of the autoclave for various started on the ltration section of the POX, The Group operates a pilot POX plant, the blends of Pioneer and Malomir concentrate where the pulp discharged from the autoclave only one of its kind in Russia, which enables and for the support operations re-grinding, will be treated prior to RIP leaching.
the Group to conduct test work and staff acid treatment, cleaning of chlorides, training, reducing the technical risks conditioning, dewatering and neutralisation.
During the installation stage in 2013, all critical associated with the POX project.
operations will be performed only by fully Once the POX Hub is commissioned, the qualied, reputable contractors.
In particular, The pilot POX plant operates the same Group is intending to continue to use the this applies to the high pressure vessels automation system as the one that will be pilot test plant to simulate various operating internal lining and to the high pressure pipe implemented on the full-scale future plant, scenarios, such as establishing optimal welds.
For the lining the Group employs DSB which enables the Group to test both the temperatures and input of reagents with Surebau GmbH Germany, which is a world system and to train personnel.
In addition, leader in this eld and for the welding works, the Group is intending to continue to use the the Group is in advanced-stage negotiations Since commissioning in 2010, extensive test pilot test plant for staff training.
with certied and reputable third parties who work has been conducted at the pilot POX have extensive experience of similar works.
plant on the design parameters and operating The Group is budgeting radiographic scenarios of the POX Hub.
This work has inspection for 100% of high pressure welds.
been supplemented by extensive test work This will check the quality and will instantly at the Groups specialist R&D centre, Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 29
