Board of Directors Mr Peter Hambro Mr Martin Smith Dr Alya Alya Samokhvalova Chairman Deputy Chief Executive Strategic Director Mr Hambro is a founding shareholder of Mr Smith was appointed Deputy Chief Dr Samokhvalova was appointed to the the Company and has been Chairman of the Executive officer in December 2011, in Board as Strategic Director in January 2011.
Group since its formation in 1994.
He is also addition to his role as Technical Director.
In addition to this role, she is Group Head of non-executive chairman and a member He joined the Groups management team in External Communications, a position she has of the boards of several family companies.
1994 on secondment from Kier International.
Dr Samokhvalova is also Mr Hambro started his career with his family In 2006, he joined Aricom plc as Technical a non-executive director of the Russo-British bank and became joint managing director Director and, following Aricoms merger with Chamber of Commerce.
Dr Samokhvalova of Smith St. Aubyn Holdings Limited before the Group in 2009, he became Group Head holds a Masters in Investment Management joining the gold world at the Mocatta Group of Technical Services being appointed to the from CASS Business School, London, as deputy managing director of Mocatta Board in January 2011.
With over 30 years and a PhD in Economics from the Moscow & Goldsmid Limited.
Mr Hambro is also experience in the global natural resources International High Business School.
She is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
industry he commenced his career as Chairman of the Strategic Committee and a mining engineer at Anglo American a member of the Groups HSE Committee.
Corporation, later leading projects for Kier International, Costain Mining and Shell International.
He is Chairman of the Groups Technical Committee and a member of the HSE and Risk Committees.
Mr Sergey Ermolenko Chief Executive officer Dr Graham Birch Mr Ermolenko was appointed Chief Executive Senior Non-Executive Director officer in December 2011.
One of the Dr Birch was appointed to the Board in five founding members of the Company, February 2010 and as Senior Non-Executive Mr Ermolenko has held top managerial Director in January 2011.
He is also a nonpositions with the Group since its inception executive director of Hochschild Mining plc Mr Andrey Maruta in 1994 and has been instrumental in the and of ETF Securities, an asset management Chief Financial officer expansion of the Group into a multi-mine company, and vice-chairman of Rothamsted Mr Maruta qualied as a Chartered Certied operation, overseeing the commissioning Research.
He was formerly a director of Accountant at Moore Stephens in 2001, of Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn.
BlackRock Commodities Investment Trust Plc became a Fellow member in 2006 and joined Mr Ermolenko has over 40 years experience and manager of BlackRocks World Mining the Group in 2003 as Group Chief Accountant.
of operating mines in the Russian Far East.
Trust and Gold & General Unit Trust.
Prior to He was appointed Deputy Finance Director in joining BlackRock, Dr Birch worked at Mercury 2005 and Finance Director in 2006.
Following Asset Management, OrdMinnett Fleming the merger with Aricom plc in 2009, he was OrdMinnett and Kleinwort Benson Securities.
again appointed Deputy Finance Director.
He holds a PhD in Mining Geology from He was appointed to the Board of the Imperial College, London.
Dr Birch is a Company and as Finance Director Russia member of the Companys Audit, Nomination in January 2011 and promoted to the position and Risk Committees.
of Chief Financial officer in April 2012.
78 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Sir Malcolm Field Sir Roderic Lyne Dr David Humphreys Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Malcolm Field was previously a Sir Roderic Lyne was previously a Dr David Humphreys was appointed to the non-executive director of Aricom plc, non-executive director of Aricom plc, a Board in August 2011.
Dr Humphreys has a position he had held since 2003, position he had held since 2006, and was a broad range of experience in the global and was appointed to the Board in 2009 appointed to the Board in 2009 upon the mining industry through his work for mining upon the merger with Aricom plc.
Sir Malcolm merger with Aricom plc.
He is vice-chairman companies and as a consultant and academic.
is currently the senior independent director of the Council of the Royal Institute of He was chief economist at Norilsk Nickel, of Hochschild Mining plc and a non-executive International Affairs Chatham House and Russias largest mining company, from 2004 director of Odgers Berndtson.
Sir Malcolm Chairman of the Board of Governors of to 2008.
He was previously with Rio Tinto served as Chairman of the Civil Aviation Kingston University and a member of the for 18 years, the last eight of these as the Authority and Chairman of Tube Lines Limited, Committee of the Iraq Inquiry.
In addition, companys chief economist.
Prior to joining one of the London Underground consortia.
Sir Roderic was appointed as a non-executive Rio Tinto, Dr Humphreys worked for nine He was formerly Chief Executive officer director of JP Morgan Bank International years in the UK government service, for six of WH Smith Plc.
Sir Malcolm has held LLC in 2013.
Sir Roderic served as British of these as an adviser on minerals policy.
non-executive directorships with numerous Ambassador to Russia from January 2000 Dr Humphreys is a member of the Risk, companies, including Scottish & Newcastle until August 2004.
He is Chairman of the HSE and Remuneration Committees.
plc and Evolution Group Plc.
He is Chairman Companys HSE Committee and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Remuneration and Risk Committees.
and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Ms Rachel English Non-Executive Director Mr Charles McVeigh III Ms Rachel English was appointed to the Lord Guthrie Non-Executive Director Board in March 2012.
She is currently a Non-Executive Director Mr McVeigh III joined the Group as non-executive director of Kuwait Energy Plc, Field Marshal The Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank Non-Executive Director in June 2009.
He is Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute GCB LVO OBE DL was appointed to the Board a Senior Advisor for Citigroup.
He also serves Ltd and the Audit Committee of the Department for International Development.
He is also a director of Colt Defense on the boards of EFG-Hermes, Savills Plc and She is also a director of Helios Social LLC and a non-executive director of Gulf Canongate.
He is a Trustee of the Landmark Enterprise, which she founded with former Keystone Petroleum Ltd. Lord Guthrie is an Trust and the National History Museum.
Scottish Power, BP and Shell senior independent member of the House of Lords, Formerly, he was co-chairman of Citigroups executives to develop rural electrication a board member of the Moscow School European Investment Bank and served on projects in sub-Saharan Africa.
She was of Policy Studies, a Visiting Professor and the boards of Witan Investment Company plc, formerly Chief Financial officer at Gasol Plc Honorary Fellow of Kings College London, Clearstream, the London Stock Exchange, and, prior to that, senior corporate strategist Colonel of the Life Guards and Gold Stick LIFFE and British American Business Inc. at BG Group Plc.
She has also held senior to The Queen.
He was formerly a director He was also appointed by the Bank of England positions with British Energy Plc, Entergy Inc of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited, Chief of the to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and Shell Gas & Power.
Ms English is a Fellow Defence Staff and the Principal Military Adviser and the Legal Risk Review Committee.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in to two Prime Ministers and three Secretaries Mr McVeigh is a member of the Audit and England and Wales.
Ms English is a member of State for Defence.
Lord Guthrie is Chairman Nomination Committees.
of the Risk Committee and a member of the HSE and Remuneration Committees.
