Our Assets Other Projects Alluvials Yamal assets Although Tokur was mined extensively during The Group produces gold from a number The Yamal region is an area of northern the Soviet era, the deposit still contains of alluvial deposits in the Amur and Magadan Russia, which contains an estimated 90% significant JORC-compliant Mineral regions of Russia.
of the countrys natural gas reserves.
Resources and Ore Reserves suitable for processing in an RIP plant, or by Alluvial mining, the washing of gold-bearing The Groups interest in the Yamal region is gravitational separation.
gravels using a sluice or dredge, is seasonal, centred on the development of two adjacent with operations normally running from April gold ore bodies: Petropavlovskoye and A simple, small-scale operation involving to November, contributing to the typical skew Novogodnee Monto.
Since their acquisition the mining and repossessing of historical of the Groups gold production to the second in 2004, the Group has completed extensive waste dumps at Tokur has been in operation half of the year.
exploration and other essential technical since 2009.
The material is washed through work, including the establishment of JORCa sluice then put through a sorting machine, During 2012, the Group produced 92,100oz compliant gold Mineral Resources and Ore which uses an XRF analyser to separate of gold from its alluvial operations, an Reserves.
Metallurgical tests have proved the ore from the waste.
This produces a increase of 3% on the amount produced gold to be non-refractory.
Further development pre-concentrate of c. 4g t Au, which is suitable in 2011 89,600oz.
of these projects is pending, as the Directors for processing through an RIP plant.
In 2012, continue to evaluate the available options for Tokur pre-concentrate was stockpiled for later 2012 total cash costs for the Groups alluvial unlocking the value of these assets.
processing at either Malomir or Albyn.
A small operations were US$1,314 oz.
This gure was amount of free gold is also recovered during broadly in line with expectations, as alluvial In addition to the gold mineralisation, the washing stage.
mining processes lower-grade material than Novogodnee Monto also holds substantial hard-rock mining and is heavily reliant on Reserves of construction stone within Industrial-scale production at the mine is not diesel, the price of which increased by 16% non-mineralised overburden rock.
Since scheduled until 2015, with the Groups current in 2012 versus 2011.
In spite of the higher late 2011, quarrying began at the site, focus in the area being on the Malomir and cost of production, alluvial deposits are less with material processed through a mobile Albyn mines.
capital-intensive than hard-rock mining crushing and screening plant, producing and generate healthy margins in the current saleable aggregate.
Sales of aggregate Visokoe gold price environment.
commenced in 2012 and the Group is Visokoe is a hard-rock gold deposit located in negotiations with interested parties on the Yenisey Ridge area of the Krasnoyarsk In December 2012, the Group disposed of regarding further sales of aggregates.
region, which is home to some of Russias Uduma, a small operation in Yakutia, which largest and best-known gold deposits.
is a remote region where Petropavlovsk has During 2012, the Group continued a review no other assets or interests.
The disposal of its existing exploration and evaluation Visokoe has confirmed JORC-compliant resulted in US$2.4 million profit and should projects and recognised a non-cash Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
not have a material impact on the Groups impairment charge of c. US$109.5 million production prole.
against certain non-core assets, which The Group is preparing a full feasibility includes the Yamal assets.
study on Visokoe, which will evaluate the Contribution to Groups best options for the projects development.
2012 gold production Tokur Extensive exploration and test work have Tokur is a hard-rock, non-refractory gold indicated ore at Visokoe to be non-refractory deposit located in the north-eastern part of and suitable for economic processing in an the Amur region, halfway between the Malomir RIP plant or through heap-leaching.
Being a former Soviet-era c. 12% mine, Tokur benets from excellent The further development of Visokoe is not 92,100oz infrastructure, which led it to become a base planned until after 2014, once the POX plant for the Groups expansion into the area.
has been commissioned and ramped up.
In addition to Visokoe, the Group holds two further exploration licences in the Krasnoyarsk region with 540Koz of JORC refractory gold Resources.
Limited work is currently being undertaken on these licenced areas, as the Group is concentrating on the development of its core projects in the Amur region.
Go to page 47 for a breakdown of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources for the Yamal assets Go to page 46 for a breakdown of Ore Reserves Go to pages 47 to 48 for a breakdown of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources for Visokoe and other Go to page 49 for alluvial reserves and resources and Mineral Resources for Tokur Krasnoyarsk assets 36 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements IRC Petropavlovsk currently holds a majority In January 2013, IRC announced a potential The transaction was approved by stake in IRC, a company which produces US$238 million investment in IRC by new Petropavlovsk shareholders at a general industrial commodities in the Far East of Russia Chinese strategic shareholders.
Details of meeting on 7 March 2013 and by IRC and north-eastern China.
IRC is quoted on the the agreement include: shareholders at a general meeting on Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
The Directors expect that The entry into conditional agreements the General Nice initial subscription will with General Nice a member of a group The IRC assets previously formed the Groups complete in April 2013 and further, expect of companies which collectively is one Non-Precious Metals division, having been the subscription in relation to the General Nice of the largest Chinese iron ore importers, amalgamated into the Group following the further subscription shares and Minmetals and Minmetals Cheerglory a wholly-owned acquisition of Aricom plc in April 2009.
In subscription to take place within six months subsidiary of China Minmetals Corporation, October 2010, the Group completed the listing from the General Nice initial subscription one of Chinas largest state-owned of IRCs shares on the Stock Exchange of completion date in April 2013. international metals and mining Hong Kong Limited, retaining a majority stake.
corporations, collectively, the Investors, IRC reported the following key for the Investors to subscribe up to IRCs principal assets are: 2012 highlights: US$238 million in IRC through subscription for new IRC shares to fund production Kuranakh, an open-pit mine in the Amur Production targets at Kuranakh exceeded growth, in addition to an agreement to region producing iron-ore and ilmenite for a second consecutive year: enter into long-term off-take arrangements: concentrates: Production cash cost at Kuranakh on a A pro-rata indemnity from General Nice K&S, a large open-pit iron-ore mine unit basis fell 15%, generating a segmental in relation to the Companys existing ICBC in the neighbouring EAO, close to the border EBITDA of US$16.3 million: guarantee will be implemented on full with China, which is due to be commissioned K&S construction on track for the first completion of the transaction, reducing mid-2014: and production in early 2014: the Companys present exposure under Garinskoye, an advanced exploration the guarantee: Garinskoye scoping study completed project which, including the Garinskoye suggesting a low cost and fast build If the transaction is fully implemented, Flanks exploration area, is the largest DSO operation: and assuming no additional IRC shares are of IRCs assets in terms of Russian issued, the Company will hold c. 40% of IRCs category resources.
Exploration portfolio boosted with the expanded share capital.
Thus, IRC would acquisition of Bolshoi Seym Ilmenite cease being a subsidiary of the Group and Deposit and Molybdenum Exploration would no longer be consolidated in the Portfolio: and Groups financial statements.
As this IRC recognised a US$21.0 million dilution is expected to be completed within impairment charge against the thermal 12 months after the reporting date, IRC coal deposits associated with the K&S has been classied as held for sale and project, situated in the EAO.
presented separately in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2012: The transaction provides IRC with a strategic partnership that aligns its production growth in Russia with the trading experience of General Nice and Minmetals Cheerglory in China, reinforcing IRCs position as a Sino-Russian champion: Once completed, the transaction will benefit Petropavlovsk by reducing its potential financial requirements in relation to IRC, whilst enabling the Company to share the upside from IRCs strong growth potential: and Further information on the transaction is set out in the announcement dated 17 January 2013 issued by the Company.
Further information on IRC, including IRCs 2012 Annual Report, may be found on the website www.
hk Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 37 Exploration, Reserves & Resources Our focused exploration programme has been efficient at targeting prospective sites close to existing operations.
This has allowed us to extend the life of our mines and more than replace the ore we process every year.
I am confident in my exploration teams ability to continue to deliver strong results going forward and look forward to commencing exploration at our newly-acquired and promising licences near Albyn, Malomir and Pioneer.
Nikolai Vlasov Chief Geologist 38 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Samples from Elginskoye prepared for mineralogical analysis Since acquisition in 2010, the Group has estimated 1.3Moz of JORC Resources in non-refractory ore at Elginskoye, a licence area located close to the Albyn processing plant.
