Following a c. US$70 million exploration Exploration Report programme during 2012, mainly at the Pioneer and Albyn projects, the Group and Licence Acquisitions was able to add 1.95Moz to its total Resources base.
During 2012, the Groups exploration the Group acquired in 2010.
At NE Bakhmut, At the end of 2011, the Group completed 2 programme was aimed at continuing to mineralisation discovered in 2011 was the acquisition of Ivanovskaya, a 205km develop the Reserves and Resources base explored and further extended along the licence area situated 65km north of Pioneer.
at, or close to, the Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, strike.
An additional high-grade pay shoot The licence area is situated on an extended Malomir and Albyn mines.
As a result of this containing both refractory and non-refractory regional trend, which holds the Pokrovskiy programme, the Group was able to add just mineralisation was identied and explored and Pioneer deposits.
The area is known under 2Moz of JORC Mineral Reserves and included in the Groups Mineral Resource for its gold placer deposits, thus, it is highly before depletion during 2012. and Ore Reserve statement.
An extension prospective for the discovery of hard-rock gold of Nikolaevskaya, including a new high-grade resources.
The total resource potential of the In addition, Group geologists received some pay shoot predominantly refractory was licence area has been estimated as c. 3Moz very encouraging exploration results, yet to be identied and explored.
Both of these new Russian Category P estimate.
3 fully reected in the Groups JORC Reserves high-grade zones are open in depth, thus, and Resources statement in 2013 and 2014. could be extended by deep exploration Malomir drilling.
At Alkagan-Adamovskaya, Several zones of mineralisation New licences exploration identied several new zones discovered, contributing to an increase The Group acquired several new licences of mineralisation.
Inferred Mineral Resources in Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves near its existing operational sites: for the Perspectivnaya Zone was included at Quartzitovoye.
in the current Pioneer Mineral Resource The Ivanovskaya licence, 65km north of the statement.
Preliminary metallurgical tests During 2012, significant exploration results Pioneer mine, is situated at the extension indicate that it is an oxide zone to a depth from Malomir were received from areas of the regional geological trend hosting of between 10m and 21m.
Several Pokrovskiy and Pioneer, as well as a number new zones of mineralisation to the west of other mineral occurrences on both the The most exciting discoveries at Pioneer and east of the Quartzitovoye open-pit were Russian and Chinese side of the border: were made north of the NE Bakhmut zone identied during the year and explored in Two new exploration licences surrounding with the discovery of three new mineralised Q4 2012.
These zones contained both the Malomir mine: zones: Otvalnaya, Shirokaya and Alexandra.
The zones appear to follow a trend of 2 A large 688km highly prospective licence high-grade mineralisation, as they strike In addition, improved confidence in called Afanasevskaya near Albyn.
The parallel to the known high-grade Quartzitovoye Resources also enabled a licence area borders the original Albyn Nikolaevskaya, Andreevskaya and NE portion of high-grade Inferred Resources licence area as well as the Elginskoye Bakhmut in a south-north orientated trend.
to be upgraded to the Indicated category.
licence area, and covers all known Because of this, the Groups geologists Subsequently, 270Koz were added to hard-rock gold prospects north, north-west believe the new zones could be further Malomirs Ore Reserves, of which 150Koz and west of the Albyn mine, within a 20km sequential high-grade ore bodies: however, where depleted during 2012. to 30km radius.
this is yet to be fully confirmed.
Exploration at these new discoveries is at an early stage In Q4 2012, the Group acquired two green Pioneer area and they are intersected by widely-spaced eld exploration licences near the Malomir Several new zones of mineralisation drill holes and trenches.
Selected samples mine through auctions.
Their geological identied: showed grades in excess of 10g t, conrming settings, including their proximity to Further high-grade non-refractory and the possibility of nding substantial high-grade historically-mined alluvial gold deposits, refractory mineralisation within the NE pay shoots.
Interpretation of 2012 exploration have indicated the possibility of identifying Bakhmut trend: results also allowed Group geologists to additional non-refractory, as well as refractory, identify a significant, new, 13km-long potential resources which could potentially be A new zone of mineralisation discovered gold-bearing structure running across the processed at Malomir.
The Group intends and evaluated south of Nikolaevskaya.
Alkagan-Adamovskaya from north-west to explore these areas in 2013 and 2014. to south-east through Alexandra and During 2012, exploration continued on Shirokaya zones.
the extensions of two high-grade zones NE Bakhmut and Nikolaevskaya and The further exploration of these new, Alkagan-Adamovskaya, a large licence promising discoveries will continue in 2013. area surrounding the Pioneer mine, which Considering their structural position within the Andreevskaya and NE Bakhmut high-grade trends and their similarities in mineralogy, once fully explored these zones may signicantly contribute to Pioneers Resources and future production.
40 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Pokrovskiy and Satellites Taldan In 2012, the Group acquired Afanasevskaya: 2 New mineralised zones discovered The Taldan licence area is situated 150km a large 688km licence area which covers at Zheltunak: north-west by road from Pokrovskiy.
As a an area north, north-west and west of the result of the exploration work conducted Albyn deposit, joining the Albyn and Elginskoye Exploration resumed at the Burinda deposit, in previous years, the Group has already licences into a continuous exploration area.
a high-grade core of the mineralisation identied c. 340,000oz of Inferred Resources may be processed at the Pokrovskiy plant: at the Burinda deposit within the licence area.
The area is known for its several substantial Promising exploration results at the During Q4 2012, exploration of this area placer gold deposits now largely depleted Borovaya area north-west of the resumed.
A pre-strip was developed in order and excluded from the licence and also for Pokrovka-1 pit.
to facilitate the detailed exploration of the the Afanasevskaya and Uglichikanskoye high-grade portion of the deposit.
The results hard-rock gold deposits and several further During 2012, exploration continued at received to date have been very encouraging gold prospects.
and near the Pokrovskiy mine.
and c. 50,000oz at an average grade of 3g t to 5g t Au have been identied on the surface Afanasevskaya and Uglichikanskoye were During 2012, successful exploration as potentially suitable for shipment to the explored during the Soviet era as narrowcontinued at the Zheltunak deposit.
The Group vein, high-grade underground mining targets.
result, c. 40Koz were added to Zheltunak is currently examining this possibility.
A historical 1991 resource estimate for JORC Reserves during 2012, of which 20Koz Uglichikanskoye indicates a Russian Category was mined and depleted during the period.
Albyn area C resource of c. 600Koz of which c. 300Koz 2 A new gold deposit discovered and are high-grade, at an average of 6.5g t, and A new mineralised zone, Yuzhnaya, evaluated within the Elginskoye licence.
c. 300Koz lower grade, at an average of 2.0g t holding non-refractory gold Resources and Au and further c. 300Koz of Russian Category Reserves, was identied and explored south The Elginskoye exploration and production P prognostic resources.
The Group intends 1 of the Cross zone.
The zone is shallow dipping licence covers the Elginskoye, Grozovoye, to undertake further drilling and trenching and suitable for open-pit mining.
It is planned Ulgen and several other gold prospects.
within all three known targets, with a view to that exploration of the potential extensions The area is well known locally for its placer re-evaluating them for open-pit extraction with of the mineralisation will continue in 2013. gold deposits, with hard-rock gold resources the ore processed at the Albyn processing only previously postulated on the basis of plant.
The Group also intends to conduct Further positive results were also received favourable geology and few historical samples.
general prospecting over the Afanasevskaya from the Sukhoi area to the east of Yuzhnaya licence area, as Group geologists believe and Cross, where grades up to 19.5g t Au During 2011 and 2012, the Group commenced further gold targets may be discovered.
were identied in selected samples.
Although only Exploration is anticipated to start in H2 2013, Sukhoi Resource estimates added c. 55Koz c. 4km out of the 28km strike length of the with the first results expected in 2014. of non-refractory gold Resources at an main structure has been explored to date, average grade of 1.1g t Au.
Of this amount, work resulted in the discovery of c. 1.3Moz The Group anticipates that Afanasevskaya 20Koz at an average grade of 2.94g t was of JORC gold Resources at Elginskoye and will add further Reserves suitable for classied as a Probable Reserve within an Grozovoye 1,280Koz of Inferred and 55Koz processing in the Albyn RIP plant in the economical pit shell.
The mineralised medium and long term.
zones are shallow dipping and potentially At the Borovaya area, which lies 8km north suitable for low cost open-pit mining.
Nimanskaya from Pokrovskiy, an 800m-long mineralised Preliminary metallurgical tests show the gold During 2012, the first drilling was completed zone was identied and explored in Q4 2012. is non-refractory and should be suitable for at Nimanskaya, a licence area acquired in The gold grades identied to date are relatively recovery at the existing RIP plant or at a 2011 and situated c. 90km south of Albyn.
low, however, mineralisation is shallow, heap-leach.
Exploration was concentrated on an area of so this area may be suitable for processing historical mining operations where steeply through Pokrovskiys current heap-leach During 2012, exploration also commenced dipping, high-grade narrow veins were mined.
Further promising exploration results on the known Ulgen prospect.
Seven trenches During 2012, drilling conducted by the Group include an intersection at the Daktuy were dug, some of which are still in progress.
revealed a previously unknown halo of prospect 2.13g t at 5m thickness.
The first results from here are promising, with low-grade mineralisation around high-grade intersections of 1.8m to 16m at an average veins with a thickness of 7.5m to 32m and identied grade of 0.56g t to 2.87g t Au.
grades of 0.8g t to 1.2g t. Exploration at Elginskoye will continue into 2013 with the aim of identifying higher grade areas, which will be priority targets for conversion into JORC Ore Reserves.
