ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 ecosystem cOnnecting intelligence: strategy inteRnAlly And exteRnAlly in 2012, 8.7 billion ARM processor-based chips were shipped, going into many of the consumer, industrial and enterprise electronic products sold last year.
We have achieved this breadth by developing the ARM ecosystem, a network of more than one thousand companies building products around a common platform.
We pour effort into nurturing this ecosystem, and have developed an internal culture and organisational structure that encourages leaders who can manage complex teams, enabling everyone to contribute their creativity, for the mutual success ofall concerned.
Employing about 2,400 people, ARM has For the business to succeed we want to see 29offices around the world, including design the number of ARM technology-based chips centres in the UK, China, Taiwan, France, continue to grow.
Our business model means Warren east India, Norway, Sweden, and the US.
Any that this requires our Partners succeed too Chief Executive Officer company which has people distributed across and hence we do not limit the connectivity so many regions and time zones will find it andidea-sharing to just within thecompany.
challenging to get those teams working About half our commercial team, effectively and efficiently together.
As with approximately 150 people, are tasked with most companies, we need to achieve a balance forming connections with our external between regional autonomy and centralised ecosystem: with our customers and other processes and policies.
At ARM we emphasise influential market leaders across the cross-company communication, thinking value-chain.
We link with semiconductor anddecision making.
Our leadership team vendors and manufacturers, OEMs and dedicates effort to keeping conversations operators, hardware and software tools flowing within and between our various sites developers, OS and apps developers, and ARM brings its Partners together in a series and functional teams.
We use internal TV content and service creators.
As well as ofconferences throughout the year.
streams, video conferencing and social media connecting these companies to ARM, we to ensure ideas can flow across the company.
alsobring them together to encourage Face-to-face meetings remain one of the most interconnectivity, either in small meetings effective means of sparking new innovations, orina series of Partnership conferences and there are regular cross-company thatwehost throughout the year.
Our main engineering and functional conferences Partner conference is held in August.
Weinvite soourpeople are well versed in the latest more than 500 senior managers from across advances and able to think laterally and to our ecosystem to the ARM Partner Meeting in spotopportunities for new technology.
Cambridge a series of presentations and small group meetings toexchange plans and ideas for the future.
In2013, we arefurther investing in the ARM Connected Community, facilitating new waysfor our Partners to connect, collaborate and create.
22 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach ouR PARTneRS TRuST uS To leAve TheMThe SPACe And FReedoM ToAddvAlue, By diFFeRenTiATing TheiRPRoduCTS, inveSTing in TheiR BuSineSSeSAnd MAKing PRoFiTS FoR TheiR ShAReholdeRS.
Connections between companies can only The improved people-to-people connectivity With more consumers connecting together result in creativity when there is trust.
is now being taken a step further, and we are using smartphones and mobile computers, Whereappropriate, our Partners share seeing more machine-to-machine connections.
andeven machines interconnecting across vast withus their product roadmaps, business This interconnection between the physical networks, the planets data requirements will plansand market intelligence so we can help anddigital worlds is creating an Internet of continue to spiral upwards, along with the create the technology to take them forward.
Things, where smart sensors can enable energy requirements to enable all that data They trust us to leave them the space and communication, measurement and control tomove around.
ARM and our Partners are freedom to addvalue, by differentiating their from anywhere in the world.
This evolution working to develop the right technology to products, investing in their businesses and requires multiple technologies to come contribute towards sustainable connectivity in making profits for their shareholders.
together, and the ARM ecosystem is well the future.
These opportunities are potentially suited to the challenge given the breadth huge: CISCO has forecasted that by 2050 Over the next few pages, we explain how anddiversity within it.
there will be over a trillion connected devices theARM ecosystem is developing new in use worldwide.
We are helping our Partners technology that will help to make the world This sharing of data between individuals and and their customers to prepare for this abetter place for everyone.
Smartphones between devices will significantly increase the demand, to the benefit of their shareholders andmobile computers, such as tablets, have data bandwidth requirements across existing and our own.
quickly become established as the primary, mobile networks and internet infrastructure.
go-to device in our modern lives.
Nearlyall of IT equipment already accounts for an these have an ARM processor inthe main chip, increasing proportion of global energy use, Warren East but with many different companies integrating andoperators are seeking to provide their technology alongside the ARM processor, increased data bandwidth, but at much greater creating a richand diverse set of products and levels of energy efficiency.
Thisisunlocking services for consumers and companies alike.
exciting new markets and opportunities for ARM and ARMs Partners tobuild smart, low-power technology.
23 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Engage with ARM on ourFacebook page: http: www.
com ARMfans Mobile computing AlWAys cOnnected.
over the past five years mobile computing has changed the way that consumers and workers interact with each other, with their data, and with the services they use.
Smartphones, and then tablets, have become the primary, go-to devices for many people always connected, always on, and always with you.
This has been enabled by increases in performance and capability, without compromising energy-efficiency.
2012 saw another plethora of new devices 2012 saw the first mobile devices with andapplications launched, and consumers quad-core processors, the first computers habits are shifting to take advantage of the with chips based on our Cortex-A15 functionality they bring.
Gone are the days technology, and we also saw rapid adoption when telephone calls were the primary ofboth LTE handsets and higher resolution function of mobile phones.
Increasingly emails displays putting mobile devices at the forefront are being read on mobile devices, rather than of improving user experience.
60% of one billion Facebook users isevident in the marketplace today as tablets access their accounts from their mobile.
are expected to outsell laptops in 2013.
Appsdevelopers have seen a 100% growth laurence Bryant top ARMs technology is at the core of these inrevenues over thepast year.
Director of Mobile Solutions devices.
Scores of our semiconductor 2012 was also marked by the real beginning of Partnersare developing low-power ARM Laurence has led ARMs Mobile Segment Marketing team since 2009.
He and his teammaintain the post-PC era, as the mobile device became technology-based chips.
OEMs can then relationships throughout themobile value chain, the primary computer enabled by major develop the high-performance, energyincluding influential handset OEMs, network advancement in hardware performance and efficient devices that give users the highly operators andmajor software developers for innovative operating systems that changed mobile and high quality devices they expect.
The launches of the Software developers are taking advantage Microsoft Surface, Nexus 10 and Google ofthe breadth of form factors, based on Roy Chen bottom Chromebook are blurring the lines around theARM architecture, to create new types Director of Client Computing what a conventional personal computer is.
His primary role istowork with leading OEMs and to helpconnect them into the rest of the ARMecosystem of semiconductor and software vendors.
24 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Follow ARM on twitter: @ARMCommunity @ARMEmbedded @ARMMobile @ARMSoC @ARMjobs In the past three years the capability of mobile China remains an extremely exciting market Mobile technology is creating unparalleled devices has accelerated.
In 2009 most and a source of new products, manufacturing opportunities for people and businesses newsmartphones had a single-core ARM ideas and consumer trends.
In 2013, we expect acrossthe world.
Over the next few years, processor.
Today almost all high end that sales of tablets in China will outstrip the upto one billion more people will get their smartphones are dual-core, and many are combined sales in the rest of the world.
ARM firstmobile phone or tablet and become nowmoving to quad-core processors.
In 2013 has found that its ecosystem approach is highly connected.
Meanwhile the information we expect to see multiple chipset solutions compatible withChinas approach to business andservices available to the billions that are with a quad-core processor becoming and over 130 Chinese Partners now belong already connected will continue to increase.
available for entry-level smartphones, and we tothe ARMConnected Community.
The challenge for ARM and our Partners also expect the first shipments of chips based istocontinue to develop anddeploy It is not just established economies that are on our innovative big.
high-performance, low-power technology benefiting from mobile devices.
LITTLE uses an asymmetric multi-core thatwill enable this explosion in connectivity andeconomic benefits of mobile phones processor that can adjust to dynamic and content sharing as we all enjoy the benefits acrossAfrica are already hard to overstate.
computing needs by switching tasks between of amobile society.
Smartphones are becoming tools for accessing different cores withinthe processor.
This health services, receiving information eg crop smart approach means theright processor is information for farmers, weather reports for used for the right task, giving consumers more fishermen or starting a business.
Educators battery life as well as more performance.
worldwide, including those in emerging We have also seen the penetration of Mali, markets, are working with tablet devices that ARMs graphics processor, grow to more than are well suited for todays fast-paced, modern 20% of Android smartphones and over 50% learning environments.
Digital versions of ofAndroid tablets worldwide.
Mali powers textbooks, with interactive and visual tools advanced computer games, and innovative forteachers, appeal to the preferences of user interfaces that help make mobile devices increasingly connected students.
interactive and easy to use.
Developers of computer games often launch new titles on mobile devices before they are available on traditional platforms, a trend we expect will accelerate as the resolution of mobile devices exceeds that of traditional platforms.
25 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 SMARTPhoneS And TABleTS hAve BeCoMe The PRiMARy, go-To deviCeS FoR MAny PeoPle AlWAyS on, AlWAyS ConneCTed And AlWAyS WiTh you.
laurence Bryant Director of Mobile Solutions, ARM nvidiA tegra 3 NVIDIAs Tegra 3 was the first quad-core mobile processor based on ARM Cortex-A9 technology.
It enables new mobile applications, new experiences, more robust multitasking, higher quality gaming, and faster web-browsing.
The combination of high-performance quad-core Cortex-A9s with a fifth Cortex-A9 optimised for power consumption enables Tegra 3 to deliver higher performance and longer battery life than previous generation singleand dual-core devices.
26 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Microsoft surface Surface with Windows RT delivers a compelling experience for consumers and enterprises who need a device that is great forboth entertainment and productivity.
Surface is thin and light, has great battery life and offers a great integrated experience across Microsoft devices.
It is powered by NVIDIA Tegra 3 processor, which is based on a quad-core ARM Cortex-A9 processor.
The ChAllenge FoR ARM And ouR PARTneRS iS To ConTinue To develoP And dePloy high-PeRFoRMAnCe, loW-PoWeR TeChnology ThAT Will enABle ThiS exPloSion in ConneCTiviTy And ConTenT ShARing AS We All enJoy The BeneFiTS oF A MoBile SoCieTy.
Roy Chen Director of Client Computing, ARM 27 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Developers share and discuss ideason the ARM-based LinkedInpage: www.
com search forARMbased group Machineto-machine the inteRnet Of things: cOnnecting the MAchines The market for embedded computers is one of the fastest growing opportunities for ARM and its Partners.
it includes deeply embedded chips going into automotive, industrial and medical applications, and provides the intelligence that will enable the internet of Things.
ARM processor-based chips span from ultra low-power microcontrollers up to embedded computing.
This enables a huge breadth of use cases including in-vehicle entertainment systems, anti-lock braking devices, intelligent lighting, smart washing machines and so on.
Eight out of the worlds top 10 leading semiconductor manufacturers use ARM technology todevelop microcontrollers.
In2012, leading microcontroller vendors announced new ARM-based : Atmel Ultra low-power microcontrollers for nxp Low-power microcontrollers for office industrial automation, smart grid, and lighting systems building and home control freescale Kinetis chips for machine-to-machine Renesas Connected applications demanding gary Atkinson top communication and network connectivity high-speed data processing and a Director of Embedded Computing human-machine interface Gary Atkinson joined ARM in 2010 to lead the development of ARMs strategy in embedded chips fujitsu Up to 500 new ARM processor-based st High-performance microcontrollers in automotive applications, smartcards and microcontrollers for industrial, home forutility metering, renewable energy, microcontrollers.
appliance and medical applications andhealthcare infineon Microcontrollers for digital power toshiba Microcontrollers for smart meters ian Thornton bottom conversion in solar invertors and the VP Marketing automation of manufacturing applications After 12 years at ARM, Ian is currently responsible for ARMs ecosystem development.
He is also head of corporate communications and investorrelations.
28 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Read more from the technologistsat ARM in their blogs: blogs.
com The ARM partnership model enables silicon intelligence to even smaller, lower cost Innovative companies are connecting together vendors to focus on bringing their unique chips.
We believe that this extra intelligence networked intelligent sensors and are creating combined with additional connectivity, brings new business models, products and services competencies to bear in the creation of the possibility of new products with huge for individuals, communities and industries.
optimised, differentiated solutions that address implications for efficiency and innovation.
Many of these networks will utilise ARM diverse market needs.
ARM technology TheInternet of Things is the concept processor-based chips.
scalesacross performance points, enabling whereeverything has both intelligence astandard architecture across multiple ARM is proactively working to lower the andconnectivity this is directly enabled application types for software reuse.
barrier to innovation in the Internet of byefficient, low-cost, low-power ARM Thisallows OEMs to reduce their software Things.
We founded the Internet of Things microcontrollers.
development costs by sharing software Association forum to ensure interoperability, costsand expertise across multiple Environmental sensors, networked together, and are also promoting the Weightless productlines.
Inaddition to reducing costs, can give an overview of temperature, pressure standard for low-power, long distance ARM processor-based microcontrollers and humidity in a home, office, vehicle wirelessdata communications.
offersignificant energy efficiency benefits orconstruction site.
Personal sensors, Together with our Partners, we are paving compared to older, proprietary designs.
networked together, can inform medical theway towards unimaginable connections professionals on an individuals health by ARM technology can already be found in inmany future Internet of Things applications.
measuring such things as activity levels, billions of embedded microcontroller chips, heartrate and glucose levels.
providing additional smartness to products that have traditionally been fairly dumb.
In 2012, we announced Cortex-M0, our smallest and most power-efficient processor to date.
This processor brings greater 29 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 As a new high-tech company, we combine thebest technologies to create a genuinely innovative solution to a decades-old problem.
We work with established and well respected companies such as ARM and ST, and that gives us an excellent embedded platform to monitor and log power switching performance.
Bryn Parry Founder, Amantys Richard Ord, Marketing director, Amantys talking to ian thornton, vp Marketing, ARM We use an ARM Cortex-M processorbased chip because it is becoming ubiquitous inindustrial electronics.
We chose STMicroelectronics STM32 chip because it is proven to be reliable even in the extreme environmentsthat our products can go into from wind turbines in the North Sea to electrical systems in locomotives.
Richard ord Marketing Director, Amantys 30 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach stMicroelectronics stM32 f1 series The STMicroelectronics STM32 F1 series incorporates a high-performance ARM Cortex-M3 processor, high-speed embedded memories, and an extensive rangeof enhanced peripherals and I Os.
Thechip efficiently operates in temperature ranges from 40 to 105 C, making it suitable for a wide range of applications inenvironments where robust technology isrequired.
Amantys power drive Amantys is an independent design and manufacturing company of innovative medium and high voltage, power electronic switching products.
They combine advanced digital control techniques with power system designs to monitor and control the switching of power devices.
The first application of the technology isfor wind turbines.
Future applications includemotor drives, traction control, electric and hybrid vehicles, UPS, transformers and HVDCinfrastructure.
31 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 network Huawei BTS3900 is a compact macro infrastructure Base Transceiver Station which features a large capacity and good extensibility, and is small and lightweight.
It is integrated with HiSilicons Hi1380, the industrys first eight core ARM Cortex-A9 network SoC.
The platform provides innovative multicore technology, which allows it to address global market opportunities with highly competitive solutions.
The Hi1380s high-performance and low-cost meets the need of GSM UMTS LTE base stations.
A fully cOnnected WORld The server and enterprise networking markets must evolve to bemore power and cost efficient to realise the vision of a fully connected world.
With the current cost and availability of energy, iT infrastructure cannot meet the needs of the next billion users, or the evolving needs of currently supported users.
In some companies, especially where data As energy consumption has become more isthe business, the servers generate the important to network operators, ARM and revenue and are also the source of much our Partners are helping them create lower oftheorganisations cost.
Such companies power servers and networking equipment.
include social networking businesses, and One way to reduce power consumption in a online retailers.
Unlike more general-purpose complex system design istocreate a highly platforms that are deployed in conventional integrated chip that features the appropriate enterprises, these servers run one specific combination of heterogeneous processing, application.
Reducing the acquisition cost storage and networking functionality.
In the ofthe server infrastructure and improving last few years we have seen the first design thesystems efficiency directly impacts wins for ARM technology in integrated thecompanys bottom line.
Systems-on-Chip within both servers and enterprise networking equipment.
ARMs Smartphones and tablets are becoming our Cortex-A family of processors have enabled primary compute devices and this is putting some of our Partners to build multi-core chips ahuge demand on mobile infrastructure, that deliver higher performance at lower thevast networks that enable consumers power than existing chips used by the industry.
lakshmi Mandayam top mobile devices to be always on and always Director of Server Systems connected, worldwide.
Current demand for In networking equipment, this can be seen With ARM since 2008, Lakshmi has focused on the data is forecast to multiply 18-fold between bythe adoption of ARM processors by enterprise market including networking and mobile 2011 and 2016, yet much of the present semiconductor companies such as Cavium, infrastructure.
Recently she also started to manage infrastructure is not scalable or able to adapt.
Freescale, Huawei, LSI, Mindspeed and ARMs server initiative.
This presents a key challenge for network TexasInstruments, with software support operators.
They need to deliver high quality, byMontavista and Wind River.
competitively priced services and higher ian Ferguson bottom bandwidth for an increasing density of VP of Segment Marketing subscribers, against a background of rising Ian joined ARM in 2007, and led the strategy to open energy costs.
up the server market for the adoption of ARM technology.
In January 2013, Ian took over managing ARMs segment marketing team.
32 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Join ARM at our Google hangoutswhere we discuss newtechnologies and markets: plus.
com arm posts In servers, a broad range of semiconductor 2013 will also be an important year for ARM companies including AMD, AppliedMicro, inserver technology.
We expect to see the Calxeda, Marvell and Texas Instruments first 32-bit ARM powered servers go into full haveannounced ARM processor-based chips.
We expect the first prototype A server ecosystem around ARM technology- 64-bit ARM processor-based chips and based servers is beginning to develop with hardware platforms to be available.
Initially, platform announcements fromBoston, Dell, these will be deployed to leading server HP, MiTAC and ZT Systems.
In 2012, Dell companies and to third-party software started shipping ARM technology-based developers.
In 2012, companies such as Oracle servers with Marvells quad-core Armada XP and Red Hat released new Java and Linux SoC products.
HPsMoonshot platform and technologies for ARM technology-based Houston-based Discovery Lab will enable servers and in 2013, the Linaro Enterprise thedevelopment ofARM technology-based Group is well placed to advance software server applications.
HP cites thepotential standards so more companies can benefit ofthe ARM technology-based server from ARMs ecosystem approach.
architecture solution to use 89% less energy, In the future, the demands on IT infrastructure 94% less space and 63% less cost.
such as servers and enterprise networking In 2013, we will see more ARM technologyequipment and mobile infrastructure will based mobile infrastructure start shipping into continue to increase.
With energy costs energy-efficient macro base stations.
We can already rising, IT departments know that they also lookforward to new types of products need to deliver more for less.
ARM and our such assmall-cell base stations which can be Partners have connected together to enable more cheaply deployed where mobile data equipment manufacturers to design new coverage is challenging, whether in rural, or classes of low-power products to meet these less developed areas or densely populated challenging demands.
The ARM ecosystem is metropolitan areas.
reshaping IT and operator economics and meeting the needs of business in a fully connected world.
33 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 in 2013 We exPeCT To See The FiRST 32-BiT ARM PoWeRed SeRveRS go inTo Full PRoduCTion.
We AlSo exPeCT The FiRST PRoToTyPe 64-BiT ARM PRoCeSSoR-BASed SySTeMS To Be AvAilABle, WhiCh Will ACCeleRATe The eFFoRTS By ouR PARTneRS in The SoFTWARe eCoSySTeM.
ian Ferguson VP of Segment Marketing calxeda energycore The Calxeda EnergyCore ECX-1000 Series isa family of Server-on-Chip products thatbrings the power efficiency of ARM processors to the data centre.
By tightly integrating these hardware and software capabilities together with ARM processors and I O subsystems, each ECX-1000 SoC delivers the scalability and intelligence needed for building the industrys most power and space-efficient server clusters.
34 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach The SeRveR And enTeRPRiSe neTWoRKing MARKeTS MuST evolve To Be MoRe PoWeR And CoST-eFFiCienT To ReAliSe The viSion oF A Fully ConneCTed WoRld.
WiTh The CuRRenT CoST And AvAilABiliTy oF eneRgy, iT inFRASTRuCTuRe CAnnoT MeeT The needS oF The nexT Billion uSeRS, oR The evolving needS oF CuRRenTly SuPPoRTed uSeRS.
lakshmi Mandayam Director of Server Systems boston viridis The Boston Viridis is a self contained, highly extensible, 48 node ultra low-power cluster ofquad-core ARM Cortex-A9 and Cortex-M3 powered server processors thatfeature on-chip high-speed interconnect within a standard single 2U rack.
35 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 AN ExtERNAL PERSPECtIVE leadership and strategy in the age of business ecosystems The ARM processor had its origins in the late 1980s.
A small British company, Acorn, developed the technology whilst working on a quasi-public computer project for schools, funded by the BBC.
After the ARM processor was adopted by Apple for the Newton PDA, the12 founders were spun out of Acorn into a small start up.
With little money and few resources they decided to collaborate and work together with other companies who wanted to use their design.
These early decisions set the values and the business model for the Company more than 20 years later.
The business model then and today is to make available intellectual property that enables other companies to work together to create successful digital products.
ARMs values include leveraging a relatively small number of employees, seeking to help ARM Partners grow into successful enterprises and helping link these companies together into an ecosystem where each gains from the strength dr. James F. Moore ofthe others.
Academic and author Obviously ARM and its business ecosystem are effective by any conventional business measure.
Today ARM is a relatively small company, employing about 2,400 people worldwide and yet it leads a business ecosystem comprising many of the worlds About the author largesttechnology companies.
As we will see, ARM does this by respecting its Partners Dr. James F. Moore has studied and taught leadership and learning from them, as well as teaching.
As one ARM executive told me recently, and strategy in business ecosystems for three decades.
He is the author of the seminal book on the subject, wedont know everything and we dont want to if we did we would require far more The Death of Competition HarperCollins 1996. than 2,400 people.
We get better specific leadership from Heconducted research at Stanford and Harvard, our Partners, and we are free to focus on whatwe do best which includes helping to andhas advised leaders of many of the worlds top technology organisations.
connect Partners across our ecosystem.
36 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach leAding A BuSineSS eCoSySTeM RequiReS ChAMPioning The ShARed PuRPoSe oF The CoMMuniTy, CReATing oPPoRTuniTieS FoR MeMBeRS To STRATegiSe And To ACT AS An eCoSySTeM.
Leading a business ecosystem requires championing the shared purpose of the community, creating opportunities for members to strategise and act as an ecosystem, helping members meet and do business, and assisting them in their work together.
ARMpromotes a vision of itsecosystem as a place for collaboration and shared learning: A better world, all together.
We see a world where billions of people can collaborate and connect every day.
We work alongside the worlds technology companies fostering a vibrant, diverse ecosystem, unleashing the creativity of many, providing market opportunities for all.
ARM and its Partners jointly strategise and act.
Joint strategy making and the transparency required is facilitated because at the highest level of discussion ARM believes in the sharing oftotal ecosystem revenues and profits with its Partners.
ARMargues that for an ecosystem tosucceed as a whole, the members need to thrive.
This opens the door to recognising the ecosystem itself as an asset and a public good, and to working with Partners to maximise business for all.
The ARM ecosystem provides a living critique of other ecosystems where thedominant players take most of the profits.
Some processes for joint strategy-making are ARM-centric, with ARM either leading the conversation or making a platform for others.
The annual discussion schedule revolves around an invitation-only Partners meeting in the summer and an open technology conference later in the autumn.
These events punctuate the near-constant strategic conversations and initiatives active among members.
ARM executives tell stories of being influenced by others in these exchanges.
One of my favourite stories is from the early years of ARM, when a major Partner wanted chips for mobile phones.
This company suggested that ARM limit its processor to a 250milliwatt budget for electrical power tiny by computer standards and asked that ARMlearn how to double the processing capability of chips every 18 months while keeping power constant.
Of course ARM couldhave rejected this technology strategy but, by embracing it, ARM learned how todo sophisticated power saving in advance of its competitors.
This in turn helped the entire ecosystem to succeed with small devices of all kinds, and energyefficiency is todayone of ARMs most distinctive competencies.
A current strategic collaboration thatwill improve energy efficiency further is ARMs joint work with foundries, such as GLOBALFOUNDRIES, Samsung and TSMC, on developing the most advanced, smallfeature-size chips using FinFET also called 3D Transistor manufacturing technology.
37 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 in 2010 ARM helPed lAunCh linARo, An oPen SouRCe SoFTWARe noT-FoR-PRoFiT oRgAniSATion WhiCh enRiCheS The SoFTWARe ToolKiT FoR AndRoid PhoneS.
org There are also ecosystem-centric strategic processes that ARM fosters.
For example, in2010 ARM helped launch Linaro, an open source software not-for-profit organisation which enriches the software toolkit for Android phones.
By summer 2012 the results looked pretty impressive, with a reported 100% performance improvement for the Android 4 operating system.
ARM and its Partners are active in establishing these kinds ofinitiatives where the ecosystem can benefit.
Leading a business ecosystem means enabling Partners to make business deals between themselves to further their own interests and to succeed.
This connecting the dots asone ARM person calls it is critical to the ARM business model.
ARMs intellectual property is of value only if it can be made into chips that succeed in devices.
And ARM does neither itself.
Soit creates an environment that helps companies come to agreements between themselves.
For example, as part of the activity to break into themobile computing ecosystem, ARM created a formal programme to introduce itssemiconductor and software Partners to OEMs andODMs in China and Taiwan.
Thishelped to accelerate the learning for both groups on how ARM technology could beused in tablets and laptops.
To create a catalyst for entry into both the microcontroller and server markets two markets at polar opposites of the compute spectrum ARMencourages its ecosystem by investing in start-up companies to pioneer intotheseemergent markets.
Multiple members of the ARM team told me the Company intentionally leaves room for others to differentiate on the chip.
This is another way of expressing the ARM value of joint wealth creation and shared fruits.
Chip customers can mix and match designs for technology elements and combine them on one chip, buying the intellectual property forthe elements from any of several sources, and then working with these sources andARM and a foundry tomake the combination succeed.
Currently the parts that canbe combined within the Systems-on-Chip are going beyond the typical microprocessor and graphics and becoming quite varied.
This puts ARM continually inthemiddle of complex business action, helping as chip capabilities are designed andsimulated, fabricated and tested.
Lucian Armasu, June 2012 http: www.
com  38 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Several features of the ARM ecosystem stand out.
The first is that the stance that ARM people take towards the others around them is remarkably humble.
ARM has an agenda: it has points of view and a strong identity.
But at the core of that strength is a willingness to learn, to give and take, and to share in the service of the ecosystem.
Humility is a surprising characteristic in atechnology company and even more interesting in a highly influential and profitable leader ofa fast-growing business ecosystem.
When did you last hear an executive in a technology company say that he or she wants the company to stay compact?
That the company doesnt want to solve every problem, and wants to leave room for other companies to invest and become profitable?
That is not to say that companies dont focus they do but they dont talk about it in this way.
This stance is reinforced with remarkable consistency in ARMs actions they have limited their size, they do learn from others, and they are open to new Partners and they have Partners who thrive.
My second observation is that the values ARM expresses and the ecosystem that has resulted are well-adapted to the world that is unfolding.
There was a business era when only large integrated semiconductor companies could supply what the world needed.
Scientific knowledge spread from large companies to open communities, seeded by entrepreneurial individuals working peer-to-peer, university labs, and the open source and DIY social movements to share technology.
Integrated companies in some cases aided this movement where it suited them, for example licensing advanced technologies, supporting open standards initiatives, and spinning off divisions into new industry-serving foundries.
Within this radically open environment thebarriers to entry for device makers are very low.
Those wanting chips today find themselves with an enormous range of choices but they need fundamental designs, theyneed standards, they need to share resources such as foundries with others andmost of all they need help connecting the dots, making their own personal ecosystems successful.
ARM provides access to these.
My third observation is that ARMs success depends on maintaining trust across the ecosystem.
ARMs stated strategy is to grow by expanding the success of the collective ecosystem, and notby squeezing its Partners or taking away their businesses.
This approach, documented inhistory, helps assure current and prospective Partners that they will be treated fairly.
Face-to-face, ARM professionals are connectors, problem solvers and facilitators.
As one person pointed out, in many cases ARM professionals have worked with their counterparts inother companies for years people have track records of commitments met, of help given and of successful outcomes.
Hundreds of management studies demonstrate the value of trustto businesses, especially in conditions of uncertainty, and when working across group, organisational and professional lines.
One of the limits one can see to business ecosystems istheir ability to keep up with change in society, science and technology.
However when Iconsider the ARM ecosystem Im optimistic, given its willingness to reward Partners, toembrace new ideas and to maintain a culture of trust.
ARMS SuCCeSS dePendS on MAinTAining TRuST ACRoSS The eCoSySTeM.
ARMS STATed STRATegy iS To gRoW By exPAnding The SuCCeSS oF The ColleCTive eCoSySTeM, And noT By Squeezing iTS PARTneRS oR TAKing AWAy TheiR BuSineSSeS.
