Overview Our marketplace strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach ARM OuR stRAtegy is tO develOp technOlOgy fOR lOng-teRM gROWth MARkets, enAbling OuR pARtneRs tO cOnnect With bOth eMeRging tRends And estAblished high-vOluMe MARkets.
tOgetheR We Meet the needs Of OuR pARtneRs custOMeRs And cReAte vAlue fOR OuR shARehOldeRs.
In this section ARM Increase market penetration Read more on page 14 Increase value per smart electronic device Read more on page 17 Generate additional royalties fromcomplementary technology Read more on page 18 Reinvestment and shareholderreturn Read more on page 19 11 11 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 OuR stRAtegy fOR lOng-teRM gROWth ARMs strategy is for our technology to continue to gain market share in long-term growth markets, such as mobile phones, tablets, consumer electronics and embedded digital devices, and to increase the value ARM receives from each device, including developing new technologies that can generate additional royalty revenue.
Our three growth drivers: KPIs: ARM has achieved a more than95% Building the base of licences that Increasing market penetration in penetration of mobilehandsets.
willdrive future royalties target end-markets Increase market 1 As other end-markets require smarter Growing the number of processors, we expect ARM technology ARMprocessor-based chips penetration tobecome more penetrated in other application areas.
Read more on page 14 As consumer products become smarter Increasing the value that ARMreceives they often contain multiple ARM for every smart devicesold Increase value per smart 2 processor-based chips, increasing our royalty opportunity.
Smarter phones and electronic device TVs can generate 510 times more royalty than a basic model.
Read more on page 17 ARM has introduced complementary Developing and licensing technologies which we believe are suitable newtechnology togenerate Generate additional royalties 3 for R&D outsourcing and can command an  up-front licence fee and an ongoing royalty.
from complementary technology Read more on page 18 ARMs financial discipline balances the need Investing in ARMs product Growing normalised operating for continued investment to generate development and margins, EPS, cash generation Reinvestment and long-term future growth, whilst increasing deploymentcapability anddividends todays profitability and shareholder returns.
shareholderreturn Read more on page 19 12 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach More ARM technology-based products can be found on our Pinterest gadget guide: pinterest.
com ARMLtd  Our three growth drivers: KPIs: ARM has achieved a more than95% Building the base of licences that Increasing market penetration in penetration of mobilehandsets.
willdrive future royalties target end-markets Increase market As other end-markets require smarter Growing the number of processors, we expect ARM technology ARMprocessor-based chips penetration tobecome more penetrated in other application areas.
Read more on page 14 As consumer products become smarter Increasing the value that ARMreceives they often contain multiple ARM for every smart devicesold Increase value per smart processor-based chips, increasing our royalty opportunity.
Read more on page 17 ARM has introduced complementary Developing and licensing technologies which we believe are suitable newtechnology togenerate Generate additional royalties for R&D outsourcing and can command an  up-front licence fee and an ongoing royalty.
shareholderreturn Read more on page 19 13 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Every licence represents the opportunity for About a quarter of the deals signed in 2012 increase market afuture royalty stream.
In recent years ARM were signed with companies taking their first 1 penetration hasadded about 100 processor licences per ARM processor licence.
Themajority of these year to its existing base of licences.
In 2012, new Partners are established semiconductor wesigned 110 processor licences taking the companies choosing ARM technology for licensing base to more than 950 licences.
As the trend towards smarter Thisgrowth in the number of licences signed products gainspace, so semiconductor KPi islargely due to existing customers upgrading companies arefinding ARM technology their ARM processor to the next generation: Building the base of instrumental inhelping them gain share in existing customers choosing to deploy ARM anincreasingly competitive marketplace.
licences that will drive technology into another part of their product future royalties portfolio: and new customers taking their first the future opportunity ever ARM processor licence.
ARM expects that its customers will continueto re-equip their R&D teams with Our Partners are planning to develop chips thelatest processors for existing product lines.
fora broad range of end-markets from the In addition, ARMs technology is becoming simplest of microcontrollers to the most increasingly relevant to growing markets advanced servers.
These include: suchas sensors, computers and servers, leading to more new customers taking internet connected consumer devices such theirfirst ARM licence.
as digital TVs, mobile phones and mobile computers: deeply embedded products such as microcontrollers, sensors and smartcards: and enterprise applications such as networking and servers.
ARM licences 08 61 09 87 10 91 11 121 12 110 ARM signed 110 processor licences in 2012, taking the total number of processor licences signed to 954.
Internet connected devices Number of licences signed by end-market Number of licences signed by processor type Mobile 29% ARM7 9 11 4% Embedded 25% Cortex-A family 32% Enterprise 17% Cortex-R family 8% Home 13% Cortex-M family 37% Multiple 16% Mali 15% Other 4% More than half of the licences signed in 2012 were with companies intending to develop a chip for smartphones, tablets or digital TVs.
16% of licences were signed with companies Other includes architecture and subscription licences.
intending to use ARM technology in multiple end-markets.
14 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach In 2012, ARMs customers reported 8.7 billion the future opportunity chips shipped, a9% increase over 2011.
By ARM expects unit shipments and royalty comparison, the industry declined 2% in the revenues to grow faster than the equivalent period.
This demonstrates ARMs semiconductor industry as ARM continues increasing relevance to equipment togain market share.
Shipments of ARM manufacturers as they choose ARM processor-based chips are growing most processor-based chips over chips containing rapidly in microcontrollers as several major KPi proprietary processor designs.
semiconductor vendors ramp into full growing the number production, and also in mobile computing ARMs total market share rose to 32%, up products such as smartphones and tablets.
ofARM processorfrom 29% in the prior year.
The mobile phone was the first consumer electronic device basedchips where ARM processor-based chips started to be widely deployed.
In 2012, ARM processor-based chips could be found in more than 95% of the worlds mobile phones.
ARMs Partners sold 4.6 billion chips into mobile devices, driven by the growth in the number ofsmartphones and mobile computers.
ARM has been seeing rapid adoption of its processor technology into markets such as digital TVs and microcontrollers.
Overall ARMs Partners sold 4.1 billion chips into non-mobile devices, an increase of approximately 20%, year-on-year.
Shipments of ARM processor-based chips bn 08 4.0 09 3.9 10 6.1 11 7.9 12 8.7 ARM Partners reported the highest ever number of ARM processor-based chips shipped in 2012.
ARM processorbased chips shipped Chip shipments by end-market Chip shipments by processor type 2012 Mobile 53% ARM7 36% Embedded 26% ARM9 21% Enterprise 16% ARM11 9% Home 5% Cortex-A Family 9% Cortex-R Family 3% 8.7bn Cortex-M Family 22% ARM processor-based chips Nearly all Mali graphics processors were in chips containing a Cortex-A family processor.
15 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 ARM has increased market penetration into digital tvs 45% each of its key end-markets in mobile phones, As digital TVs become smarter they are more set-top boxes and digital TVs, disk drive likely to need an ARM processor-based chip.
ARM has In a smart TV these chips can run the announced new technology developments operating system and applications.
that will position our customers to enter markets such as computers, servers and Microcontrollers 18% KPi medical devices.
The microcontroller and connected sensor increasing market market is highly fragmented and OEMs Mobile phones 95% areincreasingly requesting that their penetration in target For many years, mobile phones have used semiconductor suppliers use a common end-markets ARM processor-based chips in most of the processor architecture.
ARM is often the applications processors and baseband modems.
choice as it is a suitable architecture that isavailable to all semiconductor suppliers.
networking 35% Most of ARMs share is in WiFi routers the future opportunity inhomes and businesses.
ARM has seen All of these target end-markets have promising increased design activity in enterprise long-term growth prospects and ARMs networking, but we do not expect the market share gains look set to continue as firstshipments until 2013. many of ARMs Partners have announced newproducts in these areas.
Market penetration Mobile Digital Micro phones Networking TVs controllers Year % % % % 08 95 15 25 5 09 95 15 30 5 10 95 20 35 8 11 95 25 40 15 12 95 35 45 18 ARM has gained share in all its target end-markets.
Market share is calculated as the penetration of ARM processor-based chips as a proportion of chips estimated to contain some form of processor technology.
Market data from Gartner, January 2013.
Mobile phones Microcontrollers Enterprise networking More than 95% of mobile phones contained ARM processor-based microcontollers are In 2012, several Partners announced ARM atleastone ARM processor-based chip.
embedded computers used in everything from processor-based chips for use in enterprise white goods to industrial automation.
products such as networking and servers.
16 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Sales of chips into smart devices such as the future opportunity increase value per smart smartphones and high-end digital TVs 2 ARM expects that as consumer electronic electronic device generate higher royalty revenue than basic devices become smarter they will incorporate phones and TVs.
more chips that could be ARM technology-based.
Some of these chips Typically, ARMs royalty revenue per device maybebased on the Cortex-A family of can increase the smarter the device gets.
processors, thus generating higher royalty Smarter devices may generate more royalty KPi revenue per device.
revenue because they may contain: increasing the value that ARM receives for every more chips than basic models: smart device sold more expensive chips than basic models: and more advanced ARM technology that commands ahigherper-chip royalty.
During 2012, the total number of smartphones sold increased by 45%.
We also saw sales of ARM processor-based mobile computers, such as tablets, grow to 160 million.
In this period, shipments of ARMs advanced Cortex-A family of processor more than doubled to 765 million.
Cortex-A processors typically command a higher percentage per-chip royalty than previous ARM families, which helped ARMs dollar royalty revenue to grow by 17% despite the overall industry declining by 2%.
ARM value per mobile phone indexed to 2008 08 1.00 09 0.85 10 1.00 11 1.13 12 1.18 ARM royalty per mobile phone has continued to increase.
Smartphones CortexA family processors % 75 A typical smartphone can contain multiple chips About 75% of all smartphones had a Cortex-A based on an ARM processor.
family processor in the main chip.
17 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 During 2012, ARM continued to develop physical ip for advanced manufacturing generate additional newtechnologies that are suitable for processes 3 royalties from licensingto leading semiconductor companies, ARM develops physical IP for use by leading andfor generating additional royalty streams complementary semiconductor companies that manufacture inthe future.
chips using advanced manufacturing processes.
technology ARM is already the leading physical IP provider Multimedia ip for 3d gaming and and is well placed as semiconductor companies KPi hdvideo increasingly outsource manufacturing to Many consumer electronic devices are utilising developing and licensing ARMs foundry Partners.
3D graphics and High-Definition HD video new technology to During 2012, ARM saw strong licensing, to improve the visual experience and make generate additional especially for advanced processes, signing games more engaging.
Mobile phones, digital ninefoundry platform licences for ARMs TVs and computers are familiar, but other royalty streams physical IP that will drive future royalty applications such as cars, media players and revenues.
In addition, ARM signed 17 licences navigation devices are emerging.
for POP IP pre-configured physical IP During 2012, ARM signed 17 Mali graphics IP components which assist Partners licences, and leading technology companies implementing ARM processors.
such as Google and Samsung launched computing, mobile and consumer electronics the future opportunity devices incorporating chips based on ARMs With a growing base of customers just starting multimedia IP.
to sell their chips in high quantities, we expect that the number of chips enabled by ARMs physical IP and Mali graphics technology will continue to grow in the future.
Physical IP revenues $m 08 44.6 40.3 09 35.9 36.2 10 41.3 43.8 11 49.2 48.7 12 52.2 56.2 Physical IP Licensing Physical IP Royalty Physical IP penetration into smartphones Mali graphics growth in 2012 Mali graphics processors with CortexA processors % % 40 5.5x 20 Application processors in smartphones that ARMs partners reported a 5.5 fold increase in One in five chips containing a Cortex-A family were developed with ARMs physical IP.
the shipments of Mali processor-based chips.
processor also had a Mali graphics processor.
18 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach ARM specialises in designing innovative the future opportunity Reinvestment and technology and developing a sophisticated ARM expects to continue to invest in its shareholder return community of Partners to bring that employees as we develop our engineering technology to market.
Our people are our capability and operational execution.
strength for designing the next generation AsARMtechnology is designed into more oftechnology, delivering it to our customers, end-markets, we expect the business to and for growing and maintaining the ARM become more profitable.
ARM invests in our employees through hiring a mix of graduates and investing in ARMs seasoned industry experts, developing them product development and providing a supportive culture to maximise anddeployment capability their capability and potential.
In 2012, ARM hired an additional net 276 people.
The majority of our new hires were engineers, to increase our R&D capability.
Most of this investment was in our processor and multimedia engineering teams to take advantage of the opportunities for new ARMtechnology in servers, computing and3Dgraphics.
ARM also invests in the infrastructure our engineers need to develop and test complex technology.
In 2012 we opened our new data centre, which hosts our development tools and test software.
Read more about our data centre on page 42 Number of employees at year-end 08 1,071 1,740 09 1,024 1,710 10 1,191 1,889 11 2,116 1,382 12 1,652 2,392 Number of engineers Total employees Investing in R&D The majority of new employees in2012were engineers % 69 Approximately two thirds of ARMs employees are engineers, supporting our customers and developing new technology.
19 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 ARMs business model and exposure to During 2012, ARM generated 267.3 million of structural growth markets means that ARM cash, up 31% over the prior year.
The increase iswell positioned to grow its profitability, to in cash generation is primarily due tothe generate cash and to support a progressive increase in revenue.
ARM intends to cover most of its hasreturned 496 million of cash operational costs from the licence revenues of toshareholders through a combination each new technology.
This leaves the majority ofshare buybacks and dividends.
In 2012 ARM KPi of royalties as profits.
increased the dividend by 29% to 4.5 pence.
growing normalised In 2012, ARMs financial discipline focused the future opportunity operating margins, investment in areas of maximum opportunity As royalty revenues become a greater such as the recruitment of more engineers to ePS, cash generation proportion of ARMs overall revenues, develop the next generation of technology.
ARMsprofitability and cash generation anddividends isexpected to increase.
As our customers are the worlds largest semiconductor manufacturers, their regular royalty payments have become a reliable cash flow.
Given our broad base of Partners and end-markets, ARM is not overly reliant on any one company or consumer product for its future profits and cash.
Operating margin % Earnings per share pence 08 201.
1 5.45 10 26.3 40.4 10 6.36 9.34 11 30.3 45.1 11 8.19 12.45 12 36.1 45.6 12 11.51 14.70 Operating margin under IFRS Diluted EPS under IFRS Normalised operating margin Normalised diluted EPS Normalised net cash generation m Dividend per share pence 08 95.3 08 2.20 09 86.1 09 2.42 2.90 10 179.9 10 3.48 11 203.8 11 4.50 12 267.3 12 Normalised figures are based on IFRS, adjusted for acquisition-related charges, share-based payment costs, profit or loss on disposal and impairment of available-for-sale investments, restructuring charges, share of results in joint ventures and Linaro-related charges.
Normalised net cash generation is defined as movement on cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term deposits, adding back dividend payments, investment and acquisition consideration, restructuring payments, other acquisition-related payments, share-based payroll taxes, payments to joint ventures and Linaro, and deducting inflows from share option exercises and investment disposal proceeds.
