ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 We are committed to connecting sustainability With every element of our business, integrating it as a central part of our long-term success.
In this section Corporate responsibility andsustainability within ARM Read more on page 41 ARMs wider role Read more on page 42 40 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach commitment Our creating a more commitment connected and sustainable society From smart meters helping people to manage energy in their homes to digital controllers making wind turbines more productive, ARM technology is changing the way we use resources.
Products containing our technology are connecting everyone together, enabling people and machines to use resources more efficiently.
Whilst no single company can deliver on technologys potential in solving sustainability issues, ARMs low-power processors and ecosystem business model are enabling us to play an increasingly important role.
corporate responsibility and Project Diamond which acts as a sustainability within arm communication channel with the Group-wide decision making body, the Energy Use and Our approach is to integrate sustainability and Climate Change Committee EUCCC.
corporate responsibility into the core business.
TheEUCCC decides which ideas should We focus on increasing the power efficiency of beproposed at a corporate level.
Everyone, products containing our technology as well as from recent graduates to the Chief Operating on how these products can have a positive Officer, is included in this process with major global impact.
decisions going up to the highest level in theGroup.
ARMs new data centre is the first in the world Within ARMs operations, our priorities areto: to be awarded the CEEDA Gold certification Our people are our most important asset for its energy efficiency.
isan over-used and often incorrect statement continue building and retaining an but it is true for ARM as a company that Read more on page 42 exceptionalteam: depends on the continual development of intellectual property.
ARM is still a small act with integrity in our interactions company relative to its global influence.
withallstakeholders: Thismeans that we place great importance support charitable and sustainability initiatives on ensuring that our culture endures and our where ARM can add real value: and ability to innovate remains strong.
continue reducing our environmental impact.
This is especially so given ARMs success and the need to develop our team.
Our workforce grew by more than 10% in 2012 and further Corporate responsibility CR and governance growth is anticipated during 2013.
By the end at ARM are established and reach throughout of 2012, ARM employed 2,392 people with the Group.
The Board underpins ARMs operations in 13 countries.
A clear indication sustainability and CR strategies, receiving ofthe importance ARM places on its global updates twice a year.
The associated team can be seen in the provision of the committees develop the Groups CR strategy samebenefits and policies to all our full and and ensure a good flow of information and part-time staff, wherever they are located.
For further information please refer to our full ideas around the business.
Our local offices report on ARMs corporate responsibility: also develop their own priorities within the To sustain ARMs success, we need strong www.
com reporting2012 internal networks and a company culture strategy established for the Group and report thatis maintained at all levels of the business.
For environmental This is achieved through intensive technical issues, local teams the Green Teams feed conferences and effective team building ideas and priorities into a central committee activities.
41 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 From the two-week Global Graduate Alongside our growing team, another ARMs direct environmental impact is low.
Conference to the ARM Leadership consequence of ARMs success is an increase Emissions come only from energy use in Programme for those in senior positions, we in our data-processing requirements.
We offices, our data centres and flights.
The Ethical focus on training and personal development needed more processing power to help us Investment Research and Information Service for all employees.
As ARM continues to design the next generation of processors and EIRIS has graded ARM as an environmentally evolve, leadership plays an increasingly so, in 2012, we completed a new data centre Low Impact business.
Nevertheless during important role at many levels by aligning inCambridge.
Our goal was to provide 2010 we set the target of reducing our CO2 people, purpose and performance.
scalable computing power with the lowest emissions per employee by 30% before 2020 environmental impact possible.
and we are confident of making significant These programmes are already achieving progress over the next twelve months.
Figures from the 2012 Interim Global The new facility has become the first data Employee Opinion Survey show that leaders centre in the world to be awarded a gold arms wider role atARM feel more confident and their teams CEEDA Certified Energy Efficient Data We have the opportunity to develop consider them more in tune with ARMs values Centre Award for its energy efficiency, with technology that can really improve peoples and culture.
aprojected annualised efficiency ratio PUE lives and global sustainability.
This sets the standard for is bringing even more capability to the mobile allARMs future data centre projects and computers that we carry with us every day.
demonstrates our company-wide commitment In2012 we introduced big.
LITTLE, an innovative to energy efficiency and carbon reduction.
approach to ensuring that the processor uses as corporate responsibility at arm Local office Team Green Teams ARM Charitable Donations and Project Sustainability Diamond Committee CDSC CR Team Energy Use and Climate Change Committee EUCCC Executive Committee Holdings Board 42 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach commitment little power as possible to perform a given task.
It is for innovations like big.
LITTLE that ARM We are supporting a variety of research ARMs big.
LITTLE technology is a combination has been recognised by Forbes as one of the projects to improve understanding of how of our Cortex-A15 and Cortex-A7 processors.
most innovative companies in the world.
our technology and ecosystem might be able Combined they deliver twice the performance Italsodemonstrates why we are seen as to support a more energy-efficient future.
of todays smartphones, but with up to a 70% beingcentral to the future of energy-efficient ARM is partnering with the Carbon Trust power saving.
In 2012 the Smart Electronics onaproject to model the global energy and Initiative SEI identified ARM as a clear carbon reduction potential of introducing our Read more on page 25 innovator in energy-efficiency and asked us low-powered chips into computer servers.
tohelp them bring a new wave of efficiency The research will look at a number of different innovation to California.
Their goal is to ARM technology is also enabling a new scenarios with different assumptions and will maintain the states energy consumption at the generation of lower power server and current rate of 30% below the US average.
also use measured data from some prototype networking products, helping network ARM technology-based servers.
operators and infrastructure providers SEI is putting a spotlight on the huge operate more efficiently.
At the other energy-efficiency savings that new consumer We have continued our collaboration with endofthe spectrum, the frugal and tiny electronic devices such as set-top boxes, The American Council for an Energy Cortex-M0 processor has great potential computers and televisions can have in cutting EfficientEconomy ACEEE, supporting the todeliver on the promise of the Internet of over 20% of the current energy consumption development of their 2012 Intelligent Efficiency Things and the smart cities of the future.
This has led to a new research project someof our Partner companies are working exploring how smart appliances can reduce Read more on page 28 with California policy-makers to expand energy consumption.
In2013, the ACEEE will theresearch, design, manufacture and sale bring together a widerange of experts to ofmore efficient products both in state quantify the impact thatsmart connected andaround the globe.
appliances can have onachieving asustainable energy future.
Our CR programme for 2012 continued tofocus on energy-efficiency as well as on Information Communication Technology asanenabler for economic development andgrowth in developing countries.
To find out more visit: www.
org research-report e125 Team ARM is a programme that helps strengthen our values and culture whilst raising funds for charities through employee-led events.
2012 has been a great year, raising over 100k through employee led activities, helped by matched funding from ARM.
43 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Information Technology has a key role to play Literacy Bridge develops low-cost technology ARM is committed to building sustainability in international development and Information aimed at alleviating poverty.
At present, considerations into every element of our Communication Technology for Development Literacy Bridge is focusing on poor subsistence commercial activity.
We expect our ICT4D has become a focus for farming communities in Northern Ghana contribution to a more sustainable world to Non-Governmental Organisations NGOs where its Talking Book device, that is based prove central to our future success.
Unfortunately the around ARMs technology, helps deliver key results promised by technology often do not agricultural information to farmers.
One reason for this is that next generation of this device, Literacy Bridge hardware and supporting systems fail as they hope to expand into areas suchas health are designed for countries with extensive andeducation, and also to othercountries.
infrastructure and reliable grid power This section intends to provide a brief connectivity.
overview and examples of our CR and To understand how technology might be sustainability activities in 2012. designed more appropriately for use in developing countries, we have formed a Our full 2012 Corporate Responsibility partnership with Inveneo, a NGO focussed Report is published on our website at ondelivering appropriate technology to those www.
com reporting2012 who need it most.
Through its ICT Works programme, Inveneo is gathering information on why IT systems tend to fail during charitableprojects in developing countries.
The intention is to use this analysis to catalyse the development of new products that will bettermeet the needs of individuals and organisations.
ARM and Literacy Bridge are entering into a Literacy Bridge develops low-cost strategic three year partnership.
Over this technology aimed at alleviating poverty.
period we hope that our collaboration will ARM and Literacy Bridge are entering help improve the health and livelihoods of into a three year partnership.
