Capital Plans a testing consumer and trade environment.
Business Review Our growth trajectory and brand development It is therefore a huge credit to everyone that Continued plans mean we now have the confidence, we have continued to deliver against our opportunity and requirement to invest in the expectation of growth in sales and profit at long term provision of additional capacity to the same time as we continued to invest in support the future growth of the business.
future innovation and growth in our brands, We announced our intention to invest in assets and people.
production facilities in the south of the U. K. in late 2011 and can now confirm that we We have also invested in building the are currently in detailed discussions with organisation and developing teams across developers Gazeley UK Limited regarding the the business.
We achieved our Investors development of a production and warehouse in People IIP status across the Company facility to be constructed at Magna Park, in 2010 and have developed this further, Milton Keynes.
The new site will initially with several sites moving from bronze support a canning facility and then PET accreditation to silver, reflecting the capacity and it is anticipated that the site improvement actions which have taken will be operational in the summer of 2013. place across the business.
Currently we envisage leasing the land and buildings and investing c20m in the Our health and safety performance has equipment and fit out.
This is a significant continued to improve over the year.
The investment which the board believes will development of a safety culture across support the future growth potential of the the business has progressed further, with business and will allow us to maintain, notable success in our direct sales teams develop and support the successful business and continued strong positive performances model that we currently operate.
We have also initiated a wide-ranging external People and Sustainability benchmarking approach to safety and The team at A. G. BARR have faced numerous expect to see more improvements in this challenges across the financial year 2011 12 area in coming years.
it has been a tough year with substantial cost headwinds, operational difficulties and Our focus on corporate responsibility has increased across the past 12 months.
The roll out of our Do the Right Thing programme across all of our sites has built on the strong momentum of previous years.
This performance and our future plans are stronger than ever before and are fully covered in the corporate social responsibility report.
Summary We are operating in a challenging consumer environment where confidence remains fragile.
However, the soft drinks market remains a robust and growing sector.
Orangina celebrates 75th anniversary with grand tour of France promotion To celebrate the fact that Orangina was 75 years young in 2011, consumers were given the chance to win a once in a lifetime holiday in France, the home of Orangina.
Limited edition packaging, featuring iconic Orangina imagery by French painter Bernard Villemot, also appeared on special promotional packs.
14 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
