In addition to our normal capital investment Cash Flow and Net Debt Financial Review programme we have announced further Our financial position has continued to Continued details of the planned production and improve as we have delivered growth in distribution facility to be located in the underlying trading performance, carrying that south of England.
At this stage we have not through to improved operating profits and concluded our discussions with developers strong cashflow generation, yielding a positive however we envisage leasing the associated impact on the overall net debt position.
land and buildings whilst incurring an incremental 20.0m on plant and equipment Whilst the timing of the year end, being two over the next five year period.
2.1m of trading days before the month end, impacted related capital expenditure is expected to the collection of receivables, a free cash flow fall in 2012 13. of 20.2m was generated in the period previously 15.7m.
The free cashflow Finally, within non-current assets, a retirement benefited from reduced capital expenditure benefit surplus of 2.1m reported at the prior of 6.9m previously 9.8m which itself was year end has reversed into a modest offset by the proceeds from the sale of both non-current pension liability of 0.4m.
the Mansfield and Atherton properties and some associated plant.
Current Assets and Liabilities Current assets remained flat over the period The free cashflow generation facilitated a at 66.8m previously 66.6m.
A reduction 10.0m dividend payment, additional pension of inventories together with the sale of the deficit recovery contributions of 2.7m and Atherton site, an asset previously classified funded the purchase of 2.0m net of shares as held for sale, offset an increase in trade on behalf of various employee benefit trusts receivables.
The increase in receivables to satisfy the ongoing requirements of new reflected strong trading over the Christmas and maturing share schemes.
In addition, a and New Year period but also reflected the further 10.0m repayment was made towards timing of the year end being the 28th of the the 5 year term loan.
month, with receivables not becoming due until after the year end date.
The average As at 28 January 2012, the Groups closing number of trade receivable days has net debt position stood at 6.7m, being the increased from 53 to 57.
We have closing cash position of 8.3m, net of the experienced some ageing of the overdue borrowings of 15.0m.
This represents a net debt position and a provision for the debt: EBITDA ratio of just over 0.2 times and impairment for receivables has been reflects a reduction of 59.5% on the prior year increased to take account of this.
Cash net debt position of 16.6m.
balances were broadly flat at 8.3m.
Exceptional Items Whilst inventories reduced by 8.8% from An exceptional credit of 1.9m was reported the prior year, they continue to be relatively during the year, reflecting two major pieces of high in order to support ongoing operational activity.
A net 0.6m of exceptional charges requirements.
The average inventory holding were incurred as we finalised the closure and period equates to 59 days.
Prior to the year sale of the production and distribution facility end, the Group began to increase inventories at Mansfield, offset by an exceptional credit of canned products and mango pulp to of 2.5m following completion of a pension benefit from reduced prices associated increase exchange exercise.
During the year the Group incurred dual Current Liabilities running costs as we were required to Current liabilities have reduced by 3.8m, outsource some PET production volume to to 45.8m, of which 3.3m related to the an external party at a cost of 0.9m.
The reduction in trade and other payables.
The required capacity is now on stream and the average time taken to settle trade payables Group now has sufficient operating capacity has increased by 6 days to 28 days.
Other at Cumbernauld to absorb all current PET current liabilities have remained broadly in line packaged products from the Mansfield with the prior year, with the exception of an factory and allow for projected future growth.
outstanding Mansfield redundancy provision These dual running costs were offset by a which has reduced from 0.8m to 0.1m.
0.5m pension curtailment credit following the departure of Mansfield employees from Non Current Liabilities the business.
A minor gain on the sale of the The 12.4m reduction in non-current liabilities Mansfield asset and other provision releases relates mostly to the reduction in borrowings netted to an overall charge of 0.6m.
of 10.0m, with the balance being movements in deferred tax liabilities.
20 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
