From left to right: Jonathan Warburton 54 Board of Directors Joined the Company in 2009 as NonW.
Currently Chairman of Joined the Company in 1960.
Appointed Warburtons Ltd and a Non-Executive Director Director in 1964 and Chairman in 1978. of Samworth Brothers Ltd.
Retired as Chairman and appointed NonExecutive Director in 2009.
Former President Ronald G. Hanna 69 C. A. of the British Soft Drinks Association.
Joined the Company in 2003 as a NonExecutive Director.
Appointed Chairman in Andrew L. Memmott 47 BSc, MSc 2009.
Currently Chairman of both Bowleven Joined the Companys Project Engineering plc and Troy Income & Growth Trust plc.
Team in June 1990 following three years with Formerly Chief Executive of Bett Brothers plc, Cooperative Wholesale Society.
Appointed joint managing director of Cala plc, director of Operations Director in 2008.
Currently chairs Scottish Western Trust and senior consultant the Environmental Committee.
38 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Roger A.
White 47 M. A. Hons Alex B. C. Short 44 B.
A. Hons, FCMA Audit Committee Joined the Company in 2002 as Managing Joined the Company as Finance Director M. A. Griffiths Chair, Director.
Appointed Chief Executive in 2004. in June 2008.
Currently chairs the Health W. R. G. Barr, J. Warburton Currently President of the British Soft Drinks & Safety Committee and is Chairman Association.
Previously held numerous of the Scottish Finance Directors Group.
Nomination Committee senior positions in food group Rank Hovis Previous appointments include Group R. G. Hanna Chair, M. A. Griffiths, McDougall.
Scottish PLC Chief Executive Finance Director of William Grant & Sons W. R. G. Barr, J. Warburton of the year in 2010.
Holdings Ltd, Managing Director of William Grant & Sons Distillers Ltd, Management Remuneration Committee Martin A. Griffiths 45 LLB Hons, C. A.
Consultant with Coopers & Lybrand and W. R. G. Barr Chair, R. G. Hanna, Joined the Company in 2010 as a Nonvarious management positions within J. Warburton, M. A. Griffiths Executive Director.
Currently Finance Director Coca Cola Schweppes Beverages Ltd. of Stagecoach Group plc, Senior Independent Treasury Committee Non-Executive Director of Robert Walters plc Jonathan D. Kemp 40 B.
B. C. Short and and Co-Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
Joined the Company in 2003 as Commercial senior members of the finance A Chartered Accountant, Martin Griffiths Director following a successful career in various and purchasing departments.
is a member and former Chairman of the commercial roles within Proctor and Gamble.
Group of Scottish Finance Directors and former Director of Troy Income & Growth Trust plc, Trainline Holdings Limited, RoadKing Infrastructure HK Limited and Citybus HK Limited.
He was young Scottish Finance Director of the year in 2004.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
