Rubicon: We made good progress across both of our major Rubicon continued to grow as distribution and awareness levels developed.
Rubicon reporting segments, carbonates and still drinks, grew in every region across the U. K. posting with continued growth in volume and value in a total growth of 6.9%, with core Rubicon, excluding the Sun Exotic sub brand, growing both segments.
Our long term brand development ambitions were supported by a full year of marketing activities, in particular, through the use of a broad promotional campaign based on cricket to build brand awareness.
The market, supported by a brand building In the second half of 2011 we launched the combination of cricket sponsorship, on-pack programme designed to further drive loyalty first ever limited edition IRN-BRU product offers associated with cricket and the use of and build brand affinity.
The year started with Fiery IRN-BRU, which sold over 3.5m units key Rubicon brand ambassadors, Muttiah the successful re-branding of Diet IRN-BRU and helped to further build IRN-BRU brand Muralitharan and Graeme Swann, proved to to IRN-BRU Sugar Free.
In addition to our product innovation, be a successful mix of brand building activity.
of the year, a real highlight was the television the IRN-BRU brand has increased innovation Innovation also played its part in further backed on-pack BRU-JET promotion, which in consumer communication with the use of building the Rubicon brand, with the saw consumers being given the chance to the digital communication platform, which successful launch of Rubicon light and win seats on our very own chartered flight expanded significantly over the course of additional pack flavour extensions.
and an all inclusive holiday.
We have always endeavoured to continued to make good progress in the ensure that the IRN-BRU brand maintains its Our combination of exotic brands now give north of England as we moved into the relevance to consumers and communicates us a differentiated and powerful growth second year of our regional growth strategy.
through a wide range of mediums and opportunity to build on in future years.
In this region, IRN-BRU grew revenue by technologies.
2011 12 saw a step change 13%, with notable success in the impulse for the brand in our use of digital technology channel where IRN-BRUs share of flavoured to meet our objectives.
Across the year, we carbonates increased to 11.5%.
In support invested in a range of digital activities for the of our growth ambitions, we invested further brand which now has a presence across all in the brand through television and outdoor key social media sites, including Facebook, advertising, as well as through further Twitter and YouTube.
Going forward, we will leverage of our successful sponsorship with continue to develop our use of new and Rugby League and our continued association emerging technology to ensure IRN-BRU with Rugby League on Sky Television.
is at the very forefront of consumer communication platforms.
Rockstar The Rockstar portfolio was strengthened with the addition of Rockstar Xdurance, ideal for consumers seeking an extra boost ahead of activity or exertion, and Rockstar Pink, the first energy drink to be targeted specifically at women.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
