Overview Segment Performance Financial Review Profit before tax for the financial year ended During the financial period we delivered 28 January 2012 is reported at 35.4m, an growth across both the carbonated and still Alex Short, increase on the prior year of 16.4%.
The drinks segments, overall turnover increased Finance Director reported position includes a net exceptional by 14.6m.
credit of 1.9m: excluding exceptional items, profit before tax increased to 33.6m, an Our carbonates segment delivered volume increase of 6.2% on the prior year.
This is growth of 3.5% with value growing more a very encouraging result given the tough strongly at 5.8%.
In absolute terms the comparative prior year trading position, which increase in carbonates equated to additional saw an increase in turnover of 10.4% and an turnover of 10.0m, delivered through associated increase in profit before tax and distribution increases across all our core exceptional items in excess of 13%.
Our business continues to develop upon We significantly outperformed the stills strong foundations.
In the financial period market delivering a year on year volume A. G. BARR continued to outperform the U. K. increase of 2.9% with turnover increasing soft drinks market.
Within the context of by 9.4%, an increase of 4.7m.
Rubicon a low growth retail environment, suppressed performed well in the face of strong prior consumer confidence, significant competitor year comparative performance and after activity and some operational challenges, significant retail pricing increases following A. G. BARR achieved full year sales of the sharp rise in the cost of fruit pulp.
237.0m, an increase of 6.6% 14.6m on the During the year we reviewed the promotional prior year.
The core brands all performed well, programme for the brand, reinforcing growing particularly strongly within the north distribution within the impulse channel and of England.
growing awareness of the brand through its continued association with cricket.
However, We have maintained our focus on delivering by far the biggest success story during the sales fundamentals, secured sales growth year was the launch of KA stills which has from our core brands, extended our added greatly to our exotic offering.
penetration across new and existing distribution channels and introduced several Across all segments our key brands delivered new and exciting product developments.
growth with one exception, being the sales of 19 litre water under the Findlays brand name.
Despite increasing commodity costs our Sales of this brand declined during the year margins have been resilient, we have following a review of the water cooler route delivered strong cash flows and have once to market and the subsequent decision to again increased investment behind our manage the brand for profit rather than brands, infrastructure and internal capability.
volume, reinforcing our decision to impair the brand value in the prior year.
Our balance sheet strength has improved, with the business generating a return on capital employed of 22.8% prior year 21.4%.
Redundant assets have been sold, strong cashflow has reduced the net debt position in line with expectations and our small pension deficit is very manageable.
The Group has delivered performance ahead of a robust soft drinks market, delivering growth in volume, turnover and profit.
Our strong operating margins have been resilient.
16 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
