Our business model Strong business fundamentals allow us to focus on growth Our business is financially well positioned to grow.
We operate within an expandable consumption market with powerful brands, differentiated products and important positions within our core consumers repertoires.
Our business model allows us to focus on creating and delivering value in all we do.
By owning our brands, being asset backed, with multiple routes to market, and having a strong execution culture, we seek to outgrow the market as well as build our business.
Consumer insight drives our business Our aim is to understand real consumer needs and tastes.
Our consumer base is growing in number, location and diversity.
We aim to build long term relationships with all our consumers through our brands by appealing to both traditional and new tastes as well as by bringing exciting innovation to the market.
We believe people want choice and we aim to build brands and develop innovation which meets this need.
Our business model Focus on core brands We have developed a wide brand portfolio and believe in offering choice.
We have directed much of our efforts to focus on our core brand offerings IRN-BRU, BARR and our exotic brands Rubicon and KA.
By focusing our efforts on these core brands, we have been able to speed up the development of this group of brands and bring better quality, better supported communication and improved innovation to market.
We believe our core brands will drive our long term business growth.
Our business model Excellence in execution Turning plans into actions as efficiently and effectively as possible is a key factor in our success.
From factory operations to activity at the point of consumer purchase we aim to excel in the execution of our plans.
We have invested significantly in our customer facing teams to ensure our brand led activity is activated in all channels creating interest, excitement and visibility in our brands and helping to leverage the consumer marketing campaigns which drive brand awareness.
Our business model Efficiency across the supply chain To ensure we can compete in todays market place we must strive for efficiency across our full supply chain.
We invest in all areas of efficiency from the sourcing of materials across the globe, the design of our packaging materials through to our manufacturing and distribution facilities across the U. K. Our business model Envisaged, enabled, energised team Throughout our business we rely on both individual and team performance: our aim is to build competency, capability and leadership across the business.
The pace of growth and change in our markets demands much of everyone and we will continue to invest in developing all our people as well as encouraging people to successfully use their initiative.
Our business model Long lasting customer relationships Building long lasting relationships with customers in all channels across all our key markets is central to building our business for the long term.
Our aim is to understand all our customers businesses and work in collaboration with them to find winning consumer propositions but to do so in a practical, fun and profitable way.
Our business model Doing the right thing Our Corporate Responsibility CR actions across the environment, people, consumers and community are a big part of our business.
We believe that how we act reflects who we are.
Our aim is to ensure we always Do the Right Thing across the business.
We are providing support and guidance but also autonomy to individuals, teams and sites across the business to ensure they can Do the Right Thing every day.
