Barr brands: exciting initial steps to take the Rubicon Business Review The Barr range of traditional flavoured brand outside its core soft drinks position.
Continued carbonates grew by over 12%, with Following a considered development distribution gains, innovation and further process, we will launch Rubicon into the growth in the north of England all reinforcing frozen category in March 2012 with a range the 80% growth achieved in the previous of Rubicon tub ice creams for the take home three years.
The range continues to develop, market and frozen pushups for impulse with the launch of new flavour Appleade consumption.
We believe this will further during 2011 and the focus on Cola in the support the long term development of the impulse channel, including the use of the brand by delivering a new way for consumers 500ml can format all of which continue to to enjoy the delicious exotic flavours and support the development of the brand.
The taste of the Rubicon brand.
This will be done Barr brand will remain a key source of growth via outsourced production but all commercial into the future, as we seek to exploit further activities including marketing and selling will the positioning of the brand as one of quality be carried out by A. G. BARR.
Route to Market Innovation 2012: We have continued to develop our Our brand portfolio, which covers all organisation and competency to build on the sub-sectors of the soft drinks category, strength of our diverse route to market.
The with the exception of dairy, provides us with retail market has fragmented further rather a strong platform for growth throughout the than consolidated over the past 12 months, U. K. and within many of the growing and with shoppers increasingly purchasing from diverse communities across the country.
The well documented Our core brands are also growing in terms growth in discounters and the increasingly of consumer awareness and developing a important value retailers channel, as well as meaningful position within many consumers a competitive impulse market and highly soft drinks repertoires.
Our objective of promotionally driven multiple retailers building our brands for the long term is environment, all require our focus.
We have backed up by our innovation pipeline, further organised our business to respond to where much of the output from our efforts changes in shopper habits and this, together throughout 2011 will come to market across with our relentless focus on execution in the course of the 2012 13 financial year.
Our combination with improving systems and Fiery IRN-BRU development plans include further focus on processes, give us the ability to compete for For just ten weeks from our exotics portfolio and will include format every consumer sale across all key channels September, IRN-BRU was and flavour developments, as well as the both now and in the future.
given an injection of fire, with the launch of its first ever limited edition Fiery IRN-BRU.
Cricket World Cup Rubicon sponsorship Rubicon sponsored Sky Sports coverage of the 2011 ICC World Cup 19 February to 3 April.
The 2 million investment saw Rubicon idents aired throughout Skys coverage and the brand also had a huge online presence via Skys associated websites.
12 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
