Change of control As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, under certain conditions the notice period for executive directors may increase from one year to two years in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
Full details of these plans are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 55.
The Companys banking facilities may, at the discretion of the lender, be repayable upon a change of control.
Articles of association The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles at the 2012 AGM.
Financial risk management Information on the exposure of the Group to certain financial risks and on the Groups objectives and policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas is detailed in the Financial risk management disclosure in note 24.
Contracts of significance There were no contracts of significance as defined by Listing Rule 9.8 in existence during the financial year.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 15.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 25.
After making the appropriate enquiries, the directors have concluded that the Group will be able to meet its financial obligations and will continue to generate positive free cash flow for the foreseeable future and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
Auditors The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the board for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditors.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on Corporate Governance is included in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 48 of this report.
The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this Directors Report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Annual general meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 9.30am on 21 May 2012 at the offices of KPMG, 191 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2LJ.
The Notice of the AGM is set out on pages 104 to 106 of this report.
Recommendation to shareholders The board considers that all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of them.
A. Barr Company Secretary 26 March 2012 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
