Our business model brand owners with The market for stills declined in volume terms Business Review a full service multi channel asset backed but grew by 3.8% in revenue terms.
Our key Continued operation gives us real competitive still brands performed exceptionally well in advantage.
We are close to our consumers, the period, outperforming the market in both customers and the market and can move volume and value terms.
The exotic brands, quickly to take advantage of opportunities Rubicon and KA, delivered a combined whilst seeking to minimise risk in all that we do.
15.7% year on year revenue growth.
Within this performance we benefited from the Core Brands, Markets and Innovation highly successful launch of the KA brand into Our core brands continue to drive growth for still drinks at the end of Q1 2011 thereby the Company.
Over the 2011 12 financial year following a similar strategy to the Rubicon we have seen balanced growth across our brand, which was originally launched as a key geographical markets, with growth in carbonated drink and a number of years later Scotland of 3.4% and growth in England and successfully transitioned to a still and Wales of 8.4%.
Our continued marketing and carbonated brand.
KA is now successfully brand development activities in the north of straddling both these sub-sectors.
The England delivered growth of 13.0% in the last combination of authentic flavours, striking year, as our core brands became more firmly packaging and an increasingly wide range of established with consumers in this important brand loyal consumers has allowed KA, as a area of geographical focus.
brand in its entirety, to grow by an impressive 66.6% in the period.
We made good progress across both of our major reporting segments, carbonates and IRN-BRU: still drinks including water, with continued IRN-BRU performance was particularly growth in volume and value in both segments.
strong in the second half of the year In the period, we have taken further steps growing sales by over 7% to end the full year through innovation and growth in penetration with growth of 2.7%.
After a slow start to and distribution of our still brands to ensure 2011, impacted by significant competitor we have an increasingly balanced portfolio.
promotional activity to which we chose not Our revenue growth in carbonates was to respond, IRN-BRU delivered growth in 5.8% and in stills was 9.4%, resulting in regular, Sugar Free and through its first ever IRN-BRU Irish league Cup stills including water accounting for 23.0% limited edition Fiery IRN-BRU.
IRN-BRU In a two year deal IRN-BRU became an official partner of the of our total sales mix.
maintained its leading position in the Scottish Irish FA and the official sponsor of the Irish League Cup which is now known as The IRN-BRU League Cup in 2011.
The sponsorship will help IRN-BRU to build further brand awareness and consumer recognition in Ireland and beyond.
IRN-BRUs phenomenal summer IRN-BRU ran a phenomenal programme of activity to celebrate summer in Scotland, led by its new, high impact TV commercial.
The 3 million integrated campaign began in April with a 12 week heavyweight TV schedule.
10 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
