Directors Report Continued Relations with shareholders The Company has regular discussions with and briefings for analysts, investors and institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director normally meet with major shareholders twice annually in order to develop an understanding of their views and brief the next board meeting on their discussions.
All directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to participate in questions and answers with the board on matters relating to the Companys operation and performance at the AGM.
Share capital As at 28 January 2012 the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles.
Note 26 to the financial statements contains details of the ordinary share capital.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared and paid out of profits available for such purposes.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, whereby certain directors and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares and are prohibited from dealing during close periods At 28 January 2012 the Company had authority, pursuant to the shareholders resolution of 23 May 2011, to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
It is proposed that this authority be renewed at the 2012 AGM, as detailed in the Notice of AGM.
At 28 January 2012 Robert Barr Limited, as trustee of the General Employee Benefit Trust, the Savings Related Benefit Trust and the Long Service Award Trust the RBL Trustee, held 1.26% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
As at 28 January 2012, the trustees of the Profit Linked Share Plan the PLSP Trustees held 0.21% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
As at 28 January 2012, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the AESOP Trustees held 1.41% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for participants in the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the RBL Trustees holdings under the Savings Related Benefit Trust and the Long Service Award Trust.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares held by the AESOP Trustees under the Plan which have not been appropriated to participants.
The voting rights in relation to the RBL Trustees and the PLSP Trustees shareholdings are exercised by the RBL Trustee or the PLSP Trustees, as the case may be, who may vote or abstain from voting the shares as they see fit in respect of shares which are unvested or have not been appropriated to employees.
Under the rules of the Plan, eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
Details of the Plan are set out on page 50.
Plan shares which have been appropriated to participants are held in trust for those participants by the AESOP Trustees.
Voting rights in respect of shares which have been appropriated to participants are exercised by the AESOP Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the AESOP Trustees, no vote is registered in respect of those shares.
In addition, the AESOP Trustees do not vote any unappropriated shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
The Executive Share Option Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM 2010 ESOS.
The 2010 ESOS superseded the Companys current Executive Share Option Scheme, which expires on 19 May 2013 2003 ESOS.
To date, no options have been awarded under the 2003 ESOS or the 2010 ESOS.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
42 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
