We continue to manage the risks associated Interest Financial Review with our basket of commodity based items A net interest income of 0.2m was reported Continued closely through a number of risk management in the financial period, 1.3m higher than the activities and have appropriate levels of cover prior year.
This is best summarised in the in place for the year ahead, which we manage table below: through our commodity and treasury 000s 000s committees.
Finance income 59 Finance costs 744 During the year we continued to drive the benefits of previous operational restructuring programmes and improvements within our Interest related to manufacturing and distribution activities.
Group borrowings 685 In 2011 these equated to reduced material Pension interest on defined requirements through light weighting of benefits obligation 4,357 PET bottles, improved energy efficiency and Expected return following the cessation of manufacturing at on scheme assets 5,234 Mansfield, a reduction in staffing of circa Finance income related 35 people.
2011 was not however without to pension plans 877 its operational challenges.
Total finance income 192 Whilst the investment at our Cumbernauld facility implemented at the end of 2010 Finance income has benefited from the net delivered tangible manufacturing filling and expected return on scheme assets relative to labelling speed improvements, installation of the interest costs associated with the defined end of line packing equipment was delayed until benefit pension scheme deficit of 0.9m.
Additional levels of dual running were required as we outsourced The cash interest cost includes the full year production to meet our required levels of interest charges of 0.7m, offset to a small customer service.
The incremental cost of extent by 0.1m of interest income on cash procuring this production has been treated as balances.
The reduced level of interest costs, an exceptional cost within the financial period when compared to the previous year, reflects although we have not sought to estimate the the lower level of Group borrowings during negative impact that the associated internal the financial period and the unwinding of an inefficiencies had on margins.
interest rate hedge in July 2011, with interest costs reverting to a prevailing floating rate Despite the various headwinds during the year at that time.
Given the low level of net debt, the Group has not deviated from its strategy of the expected short term outlook on interest continuing to invest and develop the business.
rate movements and the anticipated level of The Group continued to invest further in sales future free cash generation, the Group has execution and brand building activities and not undertaken any further interest rate is continuing to develop organisational hedging activity.
The Group continues to operate its banking An operating profit of 33.4m before facilities through RBS and has facilities exceptional items was reported during totalling 30.0m, of which 15.0m is the the year, representing an increase of 2% on outstanding balance on a five year term loan the prior year.
Reported operating margins maturing in July 2013, 10.0m is available reduced from 14.7% to 14.1%.
through a three year revolving credit facility expiring in March 2014 and the balance being Profit before tax of 33.6m before a 5.0m annual overdraft facility.
exceptional items was reported being an increase on the prior year of 6.2%, reflecting During the financial year borrowings of net finance income of 0.2m compared to 10.0m were repaid in line with the five year a prior year net interest cost of 1.1m.
facility agreement, with a further 10.0m due to be repaid in the financial year ending EBITDA pre exceptional items of 40.7m January 2013. was generated in the period, with a reduced EBITDA margin of 17.2%, previously 18.2%.
18 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
