Also during the year in conjunction with the Under IAS 19 the pension surplus of 2.1m Summary Pension Trustees, the Group undertook a recognised at the end of January 2011 has In summary, the Group has delivered pension increase exchange exercise.
This reduced to a small deficit of 0.4m at the performance ahead of a robust soft drinks exercise involved offering current pensioner year end.
market, increasing market penetration and and retiring members of the defined benefit continuing to build brand equity.
Against a pension scheme an opportunity to receive a Asset values have increased by 4.3% to tough environment the Group has delivered one-off increase to their pension in the short 82.9m, mostly attributable to company volume, turnover and profit growth and our term, in return for giving up future inflationary contributions of 3.9m, with a smaller than strong operating margins have been non statutory increases on that part of their expected return on assets broadly covering extremely resilient.
The offer was made in order to benefits paid.
However, despite the benefit of increased enabling a reduction in borrowings, provide current pensioner and retiring the combined pension curtailments of 3.1m, whilst increasing dividends by 10%.
Our members of the Scheme with greater liabilities increased by 7.7% to 83.3m, the balance sheet strength has improved with flexibility and choice over their pension most significant aspect being the impact redundant assets sold, return on capital payments, whilst also managing the of reduced bond yields and increases in employed is increasing and our net debt is Schemes funding position and the risks assumed life expectancy.
Life expectancy at very low levels.
Our pension deficit is very associated with its pension liabilities more at 65 for a female currently aged 45 is now manageable and the cessation of deficit effectively.
The impact on the pension assumed to be 91.5 years.
Changes in recovery payments will further boost future scheme has been to reduce future liabilities actuarial assumptions have increased cashflow, helping to fund future by 2.6m which, in line with IAS 19, has been liabilities by 6.2m.
This is a very strong financial transacted as a one-off credit through the base upon which to develop the business.
More important is the result of the latest triennial valuation undertaken as at April 2011 Share Price and Market Capitalisation Pensions which is now complete.
The result of this At 28 January 2012 the closing share price The Company has continued to operate two exercise, which at best reflects a moment in for A. G. BARR p. l. c. was 12.30, an increase pension plans, being the A. G. BARR p. l. c. time of the health of the scheme, highlighted of 6% on the closing January 2011 position.
2005 Defined Contribution Pension Scheme a defined benefit scheme that was 2.3m The Group is a member of the FTSE250, and the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and in surplus, sufficient to cover 103% of the with a market capitalisation of 478.8m at Life Assurance Scheme.
The latter is a defined schemes liabilities.
This has in no small the period end.
benefit scheme based on final salary, which part been achieved through the payment also includes a defined contribution section for of additional company contributions of pension provision to executive entrants.
The 9.9m since April 2008. assets of both schemes are held separately from those of the Company and are invested Following these results, the pension scheme in managed funds.
The main section of the trustees and the Company have agreed to Alex Short defined benefit scheme was closed to new cease the pension deficit recovery payments, Finance Director entrants on 5 April 2002 and the executive the intention being, until at least the next section closed on 14 August 2003. triennial valuation.
These payments historically amounted to 2.7m per annum.
The focus The area of pensions has again seen moving forward will be to continue the work tremendous volatility, with asset values being undertaken during the last financial year to impacted by substantial falls in the equity review the underlying investment strategy markets and liabilities increasing on the back whilst continuing to seek to reduce the of historically low gilt yields, themselves underlying risk associated with the scheme.
Historic share price for the last six years 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Financial Year A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Share price p
