Business Review Industry Overview The pace of change within the gambling industry is increasing as regulation increases.
Playtech is determined to retain its leadership in providing the widest range of software and services to the broadest range of participants worldwide.
Interactive Gross Gaming Win by Product While global statistics are hard to verify, The market continues to benefit from improved it is believed that onshore interactive gross broadband penetration and capacity, mobile gaming win GGW reported by the global penetration, a growing number of market gambling industry, including sports betting, participants, and greater acceptance of online casino, poker and bingo, from regulated gaming as a mainstream leisure pastime.
Since jurisdictions increased to 7.8 billion in 2012 the passing of the Unlawful Internet Gambling from 6.6 billion in 2011 Source: H2 Gambling Enforcement Act in 2006, which outlawed Capital.
The UK, a fully regulated market, is online gaming in the US, the main focus of predominantly offshore, and adds a further 2.5 operators has been on Europe and in particular billion to the 7.8 billion stated above.
Over on markets where legislation allows various the last five years, the GGW referred to above forms of online gaming on a locally regulated has grown at a compound annual rate of 12.2%.
As the US now begins to regulate on The figure for 2012 comprises 6.5 billion a state-by-state basis, the overall interactive 82.8% from sports betting operations, which gaming market may grow more quickly than Playtech views as a significant opportunity since rates seen in the last three years, which is in-line acquiring Geneity and integrating its products with forecasts by H2 Gambling Capital.
The remainder comprises 343 million 4.4% from casino, 804 As further countries regulate, H2 Gambling Betting 11.5bn 45.2% million 10.3% from poker and 197 million Capital forecast interactive regulated revenue Poker 3.1bn 12.1% 2.5% from bingo.
to grow at a CAGR of 20% over the next three years, whereas total interactive revenue is Casino 5.6bn 21.7% H2 Gambling Capital estimates that the forecast to grow at 9% over the next three years.
Bingo 1.6bn 6.4% interactive gaming sector, including sports Skill-Based, Commercial 1.5bn 5.8% betting, casino, poker and bingo achieved Regulating Markets Lotteries and Other Gaming 21.8 billion in GGW in 2012 2011: 20.5 The regulation of online gaming in a national billion, comprising 53.1% from sports betting, market, historically has been a catalyst to State Lotteries 2.2bn 8.8% 25.4% from casino, 14.1% from poker and substantial market change.
typically new entrants are attracted to the Total 25.5bn 100% market including major local gaming companies Adding skill-based, commercial lotteries, such as betting shop operators, lotteries and Source: H2 Gambling Capital state lotteries and other gaming to the above, local casino groups who have historically total interactive GGW in 2012 was 25.5 billion.
not been willing to operate online in an Interactive GGW as a percentage of total unregulated format.
GGW land-based and interactive was 8.1%.
Interactive is growing at a higher rate than The ability to advertise more freely across the land-based retail sector, evidenced in the a broad range of media formats, such as TV adjacent graph, and this trend is forecast by H2 and online, raises awareness of online gaming Gambling capital to continue into the future.
as a leisure activity and drives an increase in player interest, which is also underpinned Online Development by a perceived safer player environment.
It is The online gaming market developed in the combination of these factors that have led the mid-1990s, first with online casinos and to major growth in players and revenues in then with poker from 1998.
In 2004 the market markets such as the UK and Italy.
For Playtech was estimated by H2 Gambling Capital as the opportunities across a range of newly having revenues of approximately 9.3 billion, regulated and soon to be regulated markets and it grew substantially throughout the second are substantial as a broad range of providers half of that decade, to a total of 25.5 billion in look to participate.
10 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts The tax regime within a jurisdiction has a Market Participants For Playtech the material impact in determining whether online The online gaming industry accommodates opportunities across a gaming is likely to be commercially attractive a wide range of participants, who choose range of newly regulated in the longer term.
In addition, the products on entry whether to develop the necessary that are permitted when a market regulates software, content, systems and marketing and soon to be regulated will also determine its attractiveness for themselves, or to outsource various elements markets are substantial.
to providers such as Playtech.
The implementation of regulation is expected Industry participants have traditionally been to remain a key focus for market participants defined within two categories: and an important driver of online gaming revenue growth over the next few years.
B2C: As markets move from a dot.
The B2C sector includes all player-facing national regime, there are expected to be activities such as marketing and delivery of notable opportunities together with some the gaming experience.
Operators typically potential headwinds and uncertainties through have a strong marketing-led business model the transition period.
and seek to attract players to their website and encourage ongoing loyalty from their Over the past two years there has been active players.
considerable momentum in countries regulating or looking to become regulated In addition to commercial operators, there is a in online gaming, and in 2012 regulation was growing B2G segment, comprising state-owned introduced in Spain, Belgium and Denmark, or state-controlled entities such as lotteries and while Italy introduced more products to other organisations.
In Germany, Schleswig-Holstein issued a number of licenses B2B: including two to a joint venture vehicle of Supporting the aforementioned operators Playtech and Gauselmann, but the overall are a number of technology providers offering regulatory environment in Germany remains software platforms, specialist products and unclear.
The Netherlands and Greece are services and games content.
proceeding in becoming regulated markets.
Countries around the world continue to Such providers compete in offering regulate, using as a model, the experience of the highest-quality gaming products or other countries that have already undergone systems capable of achieving the operators regulation.
At 31 December 2012, there business objectives.
were 12 counties that were regulated for some form of online gaming 31 December 2011: Playtech is the largest listed B2B provider, 9 countries.
offering a full product suite that includes the worlds largest bingo and poker networks.
These networks provide Playtechs licensees with the benefits of increased liquidity, joint marketing, plus networked jackpots.
Unlike a B2C partnership, licensees can still manage their own business activities and maintain their independence from the platform provider.
Interactive Gross Win by Regulated vs. Unregulated 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012P 2013E 2014E 2015E Source: H2 Gambling Capital Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Business Review Industry Overview continued Turnkey Services This gives them access to a local profile and Advances in technology Online gaming is a relatively new, dynamic, enhanced player liquidity, which they might have also improved industry that requires differentiated specialist not otherwise enjoy themselves.
In return they the operators player skills and assets, from traditional land-based typically look to offer a white-label turnkey operations.
As local or land-based operators solution for their local partner.
management systems, seek to add a complementary online offering delivering features such to their existing business, or as media Playtechs positioning in the industry remains as real-time analytics and companies seek to enter the industry, they constant as a B2B provider, focusing on have increasingly looked for help from an providing scale and breadth of product offering, VIP management tools.
experienced partner with the ability to offer a and ensuring that licensees have the most A significant milestone range of services up to a full turnkey solution.
advanced technology and operator platform has been the ability Such a solution would include the knowin the industry with best-of-breed tools how and manpower necessary to ensure and content.
to offer a single wallet the new business can comply with any across all platforms.
relevant legislation and compete against Player Management the sophisticated marketing capabilities Advances in technology have also improved of well-established online operators the operators player management systems, from day one.
delivering features such as real-time analytics and VIP management tools.
A significant Competition and Market Position milestone has been the ability to offer a Playtech has traditionally faced competition single wallet across all platforms and product for B2B mandates from other software segments.
This enables players to move providers, typically of smaller scale.
More across games or products without changing recently there have been B2C operators user account.
that are looking to minimise their own risk when entering a newly-regulated market This technology is also used to provide greater by partnering with substantial and wellplayer protection to prevent under-age and recognised local businesses.
problem gaming, and includes age verification tools, tracking player activity and self-exclusion tools.
It also monitors the network for evidence of money laundering.
Interactive Gross Win Margin all products 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012P 2013E 2014E 2015E Source: H2 Gambling Capital 12 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governan rnanc ce e S Sus ust ta ainab inabili ilit ty y Ac Acc co ount unts s Improved player management systems the most sophisticated of server-based are key elements in increasing player loyalty gaming systems: unique capabilities in TV and enhancing an operators cross-selling and broadcast: and cutting-edge mobile potential as players are encouraged to play and online products.
All are managed by more frequently and for longer periods.
This a single operator platform with a single can now be combined with cross-platform player wallet across all formats.
capabilities through server-based gaming terminals, mobile phones and tablets using The gaming industry is undergoing browser-based technology, and download.
fundamental and structural change and Playtech is determined to remain a market Convergence of Online and Land-Based leader in providing technology and services A significant industry trend is the growing to the broadest range of participants with convergence of land-based and online market a focus on regulated business.
This is principally as a result of many new entrants in regulated online markets being Consolidation of the Gaming Market existing land-based gaming, betting and lottery As evidenced by the recent offers for operators, who already have a substantial local Sportingbet plc and betdaq.
com, the industry presence, well-recognised brands, existing is beginning to show signs of consolidation.
player databases and are familiar with the Driving these trends is the increase in licensing local regulatory environment.
costs, the limited number of licenses issued by regulated countries, decreasing margins in Historically separate in their philosophy and part because of increased taxes as a result systems, there has been a fundamental shift in of regulation and B2C market saturation both segments towards common techniques in certain verticals.
Keeping up to date for player attraction and retention, such as with technology, the need for player liquidity VIP levels and loyalty schemes.
Operators and marketing spend are also believed to are becoming more aware of the importance be contributors to market consolidation.
of player retention and of incentivising the player on an individual basis regardless of channel.
The retention of players and the ability to cross sell them onto other products provides opportunity for operators, but also presents substantial technical challenges for them.
Playtech has focused much of its recent development efforts on ensuring that it is able to deliver functionality, player management and content across the full range of distribution channels, and to capitalise on this trend of convergence.
It has proactively developed Pla Play ytech tech Limi Limited ted An Ann nual ual R Re epor port t and and Accou Accoun nt ts s 20 201 12 2 1 13 3
