Governance Directors Report The directors are pleased to present to shareholders their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Principal Activities and Business Review The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing of software and the provision of ancillary services for the online and land-based gaming industries.
Playtech Limited is a public listed company, listed on the London Stock Exchange: it is incorporated and domiciled in the Isle of Man.
The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report as required by Rule 4.1.
5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules applicable to the Company can be found in the Chairmans statement and the Business Review on pages 2 to 27, which also includes an analysis, using financial key performance indicators, of the development, performance and position of the Companys business.
A statement of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business of the Company at the end of the year is found on pages 48 and 49 of this report and accounts, and details of the Companys risk management objectives and policies are set out in Note 30 to of the Financial Statements.
Details of all important post-balance sheet events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries are set out in Note 31 to the Financial Statements.
Results The results of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out on pages 58 to 97 show total gross income total revenue plus the Groups share of profits in William Hill Online before non cash amortisation of intangibles of 368.1 million 2011: 243.6 million and a net profit after tax of 86.8 million 2011: 77.7 million.
Dividends The Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 15.4 cents per share which will be paid to shareholders on the register as at 26 April 2013.
The payment of this dividend requires shareholder approval which will be sought at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held at the Sefton Hotel, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man on 8 May 2013.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 24 May 2013, and together with the interim dividend of 7.8 cents per share paid on 19 October 2012 makes a total dividend of 23.2 cents per share for the year.
Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in a currency other than euros will be required to return currency election forms to the Companys registrars by 3 May 2013.
Directors and Directors Interests The directors of the Company who held office during the 2012 year and to date are: Appointed Resigned Roger Withers 28.3.
2013 The interests of the directors who held office during 2012 and to date, in the share capital of the Company and details of their service agreements are shown in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 40 and 43.
There are no agreements between the Company and any of its directors providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs because of a take-over bid.
Significant Shareholdings As of 14 March 2013 the Company had been advised of the following significant shareholders each holding more than 3% of the Companys issued share capital: No.
of ordinary Shareholders % shares Brickington Trading Limited 49.3 143,645,782 BlackRock Investment Management Institutional Group 5.4 15,699,402 Capital Institutional Group 4.9 14,311,675 Greenlight Capital 3.8 11,029,476 Fidelity Institutional Group 3.6 10,625,334 Interexpo Trading Limited 3.0 8,774,200 Based on 291,137,964 ordinary shares in issue on 28 February 2013 30 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts The persons set out in the table above have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Capital Structure As at 31 December 2012, the Company had 290,236,870 issued shares of no par value.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares and each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and to participate in any dividends declared in accordance with the articles of association.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
The authorities under the Companys articles of association granted at the last Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase its own shares and for the Directors to issue new shares for cash remains valid until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting when it is intended that a resolution will be put forward to shareholders to renew the authority to issue shares for cash.
The Company did not acquire any of its shares during the year.
The Companys articles of association do not contain any specific restrictions on the size or a shareholders holding or on the transfer of shares.
There are no restrictions on amending the articles of association other than the requirement to pass a special resolution of the shareholders.
Significant Agreements There are no agreements or arrangements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change in control of the Company following a take-over bid, and which are considered individually significant in terms of their impact on the business of the Group as a whole, other than the Companys 50 million facility from Bank Hapoalim B. M. which provides that the outstanding facilities may become immediately due and payable on the occurrence of a change in control.
Related Party Transactions Details of all related party transactions are set out in Note 28 to the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance The Directors statement on Corporate Governance is set out on pages 33 to 36 and forms part of this report.
Political and Charitable Donations The Company made a charitable donation of 30,000 to the Responsible Gaming Trust formerly the Great Foundation, a charity which funds the research into and treatment of problem gambling during the year ended 31 December 2012, and made further donations to a variety of charities operating in countries in which the Companys subsidiaries are based.
The Company made no political donations during this period.
Employees The Corporate Social Responsibility Report provides information with respect to the Groups impact on the environment and can be found on pages 50 to 55.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitude and ability of the applicant concerned.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them as employees and on the performance of the Group.
Policy on Creditors The Group and Company do not follow any code or standard on payment practices and there is no fixed policy for payment for goods and services, though generally terms of payment are agreed when commencing trading and, subject to any genuine dispute, the policy is to adhere to such payment terms.
Payment is made promptly once authorisation of the invoice is obtained.
Land and Buildings The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference between the book and market value of the land and buildings owned by the Group.
Future Prospects The Board is confident of its performance for 2013.
Its aim in 2013 is to further enhance Playtechs market leading position with a focus on regulated markets and using its strong cash position, if appropriate, to look at the acquisition of complementary businesses.
Directors Statement Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages 28 and 29 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: t The Group and Company Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and t The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Annual General Meeting AGM The 2012 AGM was held in May in Douglas, Isle of Man.
All directors were present, and made themselves available to answer questions from shareholders.
The AGM provides an opportunity for the directors to communicate personally performance and future strategy to non-institutional shareholders and for those shareholders to meet with and question the board.
All directors again plan to be present.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review at the meeting, recorded in the minutes of the meeting and communicated to the market and via the Group website.
The 2013 AGM will be held at the Sefton Hotel, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 2RW on Wednesday 8 May 2013 at 11:30am.
The notice convening the 2013 AGM, and an explanation of the items of non-routine business are set out in the circular that accompanies this Annual Report.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Governance Directors Report continued Auditors So far as each director is aware, at the date of the approval of the Financial Statements there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Companys auditors will be submitted to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board Paul Wright Company Secretary and Legal Counsel 14 March 2013 32 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
