Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Partnerships Two joint venture partnerships and a structured agreement with Ladbrokes signed in past 14 months.
Gauselmann It is anticipated that over the medium-term, The breadth and depth of The joint venture with Gauselmann was Playtechs industry-leading IMS will become the software and services signed in January 2012, and was awarded the foundation of Ladbrokes digital back-end, casino and sports betting licenses from the enabling Ladbrokes and its customers to enjoy to be provided under these state of Schleswig-Holstein in early 2013. the benefits of a fully integrated experience agreements are unique to across all products and channels.
Playtech, and reflect the Founded in 1957, Gauselmann has developed its Groups successful laughing Merkur sun into the most recognizable From May 2013, PTTS will advise and assist German domestic gaming brand.
With Group Ladbrokes in driving its digital revenues by acquisition strategy.
revenues in excess of 1.7 billion in 2011 and introducing sophisticated methodologies and over 6,300 employees, Gauselmann is one business intelligence systems, developed by of Europes leading gaming groups, with PTTS, in order to maximise customer lifetime operations across Germany focused on the values accelerating the growth of Ladbrokes development and production of amusement digital business.
and gaming machines and related gaming content, along with over 200 gaming arcades In addition to the royalties to be generated operated by its Merkur Spielothek division.
under the terms of the software agreement, the Group will be entitled to a success fee for While the regulatory position remains unclear, the advisory services provided by PTTS, based a number of license holders are planning to upon the improvement in Ladbrokes digital launch services across Germany in 2013 utilising EBITDA between FY2012 and FY2017, with their Schleswig-Holstein licenses.
interim instalments falling due if EBITDA uplifts of 35 million, 70 million and 100 million are Peermont achieved in an earlier year.
75% of the success Peermont is the second largest land-based fee is payable in cash, with the balance payable casino operator in South Africa, entered into in Ladbrokes shares, with Playtech able to elect a joint venture with Playtech in January 2012. to receive a greater proportion of the success Regulation of online gaming is not expected fee in Ladbrokes shares.
The success fee is calculated in accordance Ladbrokes with the following formula: 27.5% x increase In March 2013, Playtech announced a landmark in adjusted EBITDA over Base EBITDA x the then agreement that expands its existing software prevailing Group EBITDA multiple of Ladbrokes.
and technology agreements with Ladbrokes 75% of any interim instalment is payable and separately that Playtechs PTTS will provide immediately with the remaining 25% deferred Highlights: Ladbrokes with advisory services to assist in the until the earlier of the achievement of the next Accelerates ability to drive online and development and growth of its digital business.
interim instalment or the end of the period over mobile revenues using Playtechs highly which the success fee is measured.
sophisticated products and services The new software agreement, which provides Interests closely aligned through structure Ladbrokes with access to Playtechs full If by 31 December 2017 the adjusted EBITDA of success fee technology and product suite, will commence uplift reaches more than 100 million, Playtech with the launch of a new Vegas tab on would be entitled to an additional bonus fee, Ladbrokes digital platforms, offering a suite calculated as 75% of the amount exceeding of casino and games products across online, 100 million, subject to a cap of 50 million.
mobile and tablet, with the other products The aggregate success fees payable to PTTS to follow in due course.
under the advisory services agreement are capped at a level that does not require Ladbrokes shareholder approval.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
