Governance Board of Directors The current Board of Directors consists of: Ron Hoffman aged 36 Andrew Thomas aged 69 Chief Financial Ocer Non-Executive Director Roger Withers aged 70 Ron was appointed as the Groups Chief Andrew has enjoyed a career as an accountant Non-Executive Chairman Financial Officer following the retirement of and businessman, much of which within in the Roger started his career with Booz, Allen & David Mathewson on 31 December 2012, having leisure industry.
Andrew is currently chairman of Hamilton as an international management joined the Group in 2004.
He spent the last eight Randalls Limited, a family-owned pub company consultant and, subsequently, has over 30 years years at Playtech as VP of Finance, managing in Jersey, where he has his home.
Andrew experience in the leisure and gaming industries.
the finance department, including its listing on previously served as chairman of the The In 1973, Roger joined Ladbrokes where he held AIM in 2006, the transition to the Main Market in Greenalls Group PLC and as a non-executive a number of senior positions in the bookmaking, 2012 and supporting the growth of the business director of JJB Sports PLC and of The Restaurant casino, lottery and gaming machine divisions.
through its operations, financial planning and Group PLC, as well as serving on the boards In 1986, he joined Bass where his roles included reporting.
Prior to joining the Playtech Group, of a number of private and public companies.
managing director of BMLS and Coral Racing Ron previously held the position of Senior He is the founding partner in the Cheshireand executive chairman of Bass Leisure, South Manager at Ernst & Young.
based accountant firm, Moors Andrew Thomas Africa.
Andrew is a member of the Institute he has held a number of other non-executive Alan Jackson aged 69 of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales directorships, including chairman of Arena Senior Non-Executive Director and a member of the Institute of Taxation.
Leisure plc as well as with a number of Alan has over 30 years experience in the leisure substantial privately held companies in industry.
From 1973 to 1991, he occupied a the property, technology, publishing and number of positions at Whitbread, principally exhibitions sectors.
He is also currently a as managing director of Beefeater steakhouse non-executive chairman of Sportech plc, and also the Whitbread restaurant division the pools and tote betting company.
where he was responsible for the creation and development of the Beefeater, Travel Inn Mor Weizer aged 37 and TGI Friday brands.
In 1991, he founded Chief Executive Ocer Inn Business Group plc, which was acquired Mor was appointed as the Groups Chief by Punch Taverns plc in 1999.
He has been Executive Officer in May 2007.
Prior to this he chairman of The Restaurant Group plc since was the chief executive officer of one of the 2001.
He is also chairman of Charles Wells Groups subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing Ltd Limited and deputy chairman and senior which required him to oversee the Groups non-executive director at Redrow plc.
licensee relationship management, product management for new licensees and the Groups marketing activities.
Prior to joining the Playtech Group, Mor worked for Oracle for over four years, initially as a development consultant and then as a product manager, which involved creating sales and consulting channels on behalf of Oracle Israel and Oracle Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Before this, he worked in a variety of roles, including as an auditor and financial consultant for  and a system analyst for Tadiran Electronic Systems Limited, an Israeli company that designs electronic warfare systems.
Mor is also a non-executive director of Sportech PLC.
28 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Roger Withers Mor Weizer Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Ron Hoffman Alan Jackson Chief Financial Officer Senior Non-Executive Director Andrew Thomas Non-Executive Director Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
