S T T P s e s s r t n u c o t i n u t Business Review Business Model & Strategy Playtechs strategy, supported by its strong balance sheet, centres on developing three highly complementary business channels: products and services: turnkey solutions: and joint ventures, with organised growth and targeted acquisitions.
Shareholder Value Maximising Opportunities Poker Games Bingo Sport Casino IMS Information Management Solution Live & TV Lottery Gaming Gaming Internet Machines TV Mobile Broadcast Social 14 Playtech Limited Annual Re epor port a t and nd A Accou ccoun nt ts s 2 20 01 12 2 e u d V l o o t n r S i P o y J e k n r u T Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts IMS and Products Playtech offers a full suite Playtech is the supplier of choice to over 110 channels, including download, web, mobile, TV licensees in the gaming industry, because of the and land-based.
This functionality is enhanced of gaming products, including best of breed products, scale and breadth of by Playtechs services solution, which provides casino, bingo, poker and player networks in bingo and poker, the industrys marketing, CRM, operational support and sports along with ancillary largest content library, and most importantly, the payment advice up to a full turn-key solution.
services including marketing, cutting-edge information management solution.
The IMS, which is Playtechs key competitive Through ongoing R&D and bolt-on acquisitions, operational support, advisory advantage, acts as a backbone for the entire Playtech will continue to develop its product and network management Playtech business model, allowing operators to and content offering into new or complementary services, all of which are acquire, convert and retain players using specific areas, including expanding its cross-platform supported by the highly tool and services, thereby maximising player capabilities.
In 2012 Playtech added two product sophisticated information value and lifetime, as well as enhancing the player verticals, Social Gaming and Binary Options, experience.
The IMS provides a single account which are still in their infancy.
It also acquired management solution.
The registration or sign-on for multiple products Geneity, which increased the sportsbook offering, IMS is the core component casino, bingo, poker etc.
a single wallet with creating a one-stop shop for gaming operators.
and key differentiator of multiple balances, enabling players to make a Playtechs focus remains on regulated markets, Playtechs offering, and can seamless transition between products, which with a dynamic product and services offering fully can be accessed through multiple distribution compliant with the evolving regulatory landscape.
be customised through a variety of network management tools and features.
Turnkey Solutions As a result of more than a decade of experience, product offering, can deliver the very best Through PT Turnkey Services PTTS offers a number of value adding services marketing and operational support services PTTS, Playtech has a including affiliate marketing penetration, the to compete in highly competitive new comprehensive single source most advanced player management systems, markets.
Recently, Playtech signed a structured solution to the online gaming operational support including fraud, network agreement with Ladbrokes to provide industry: of particular interest management, hosting, reconciliation and marketing and advisory services, including payment advisory services, all designed to sophisticated business intelligence and CRM to the growing number of new leverage the market-leading tools delivered systems along with access to Playtechs full entrants targeting regulated by Playtechs IMS.
product suite, technology and the IMS back online markets.
This offering is expected to For many operators, particularly in emerging accelerate Ladbrokes online and mobile and newly-regulating markets, there is a clear revenues and grow the lifetime values of need for a partner that, along with a premier Ladbrokes digital customers.
Joint Ventures These partners are looking to develop a In each case Playtech will provide its localised Playtechs strategy is to market-leading online offering, supported service expertise while its local partners identify new partners with by highly experienced marketing and player commit their gaming brand, any online which to establish long-term management capabilities.
Joint venture partners operations, customer lists and management ventures.
In markets such recognise the benefits of Playtechs expertise to the new joint venture.
It is anticipated that when they are competing against established both parties interests are aligned through as the UK, Germany and international businesses transitioning from the injection of working capital and or certain South Africa, Playtech being offshore dot.
com operators to local assets into the venture.
has been chosen as a joint market participants.
venture partner by leading land-based operators.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
