Business Review Products IMS Information Management Solution The IMS is a cross-platform infrastructure, Dashboard for KPI Monitoring The IMS is the backbone of enabling online, broadcast, mobile and Enhanced analysis tools allow licensees Playtechs offering controlling land-based platforms to be managed to generate reports and statistics on all all products and generating through a single administrative system.
aspects of their players activity, enabling higher levels of player Sophisticated CRM tools enable operators segmentation of the player base, in order to better understand players gaming todefine marketing strategy and future conversion and retention behaviour, using a single interface that spend.
The dynamic operational dashboard potential, it drives profitability generates reports to analyse every player provides an at-a-glance view of KPIs, using through maximising crosson the network, or a predefined segment.
clear graphs and charts to display key business selling opportunities.
Recent innovations include a quick deposit trends including player numbers and activity, feature located in all lobby and game earnings per active player, player churn, bonus windows, making depositing an easy costs, deposits, withdrawals and declines.
and immediate process, a mobile hub linking These real-time reporting and advanced Playtechs award winning Mobenga platform marketing tools play a key role in player Highlights: to the rest of Playtechs product verticals and retention and conversion.
Migration of Gala Coral onto the IMS platform the Playtech portal which enables operators to Development of improved IMS through the provide players with a bespoke user-interface.
Player Engagement launch of the mobile hub and portal By providing the tools to understand their In addition, a ring-fencing feature enables players, Playtech assists licensees to devise players who are registered at a multi-product appropriate marketing strategies accordingly.
brand to facilitate play and bonusing without Furthermore they can communicate these the need for funds transfer.
Together, these promotions in the most relevant way to a tools enhance an operators ability to attract, particular player segment, through offline convert and retain their player base, while and online communication tools, and chat encouraging players to try new or unfamiliar applet, all in multiple languages.
Casino With its open gaming platform, the Games Portfolio Playtechs casino is Playtech casino offers the best games library Playtechs expanding games library continues the Companys flagship in the industry, including unrivalled branded to incorporate a careful selection of branded product, and continues content, and hundreds of games integrated games designed to help licensees draw in new to be the leading online from various third-party developers.
players and to excite their existing players A best-of-breed back office system through mass-market appeal.
The most notable 2012 releases include Monty Open Gaming Platform Pythons Spamalot, The Sopranos, Cowboys Powered by Playtechs EdGE technology, & Aliens, Baywatch, Little Britain, John Wayne, Highlights: Playtechs open platform offers operators Thor, Captain America and Marilyn Monroe.
Now includes all Ash Gaming products the opportunity to enjoy Playtechs own Revamped live dealer offering extensive content library, as well as new Winner of EGR slot provider of the year games from various third-party providers, all developed using the same EdGE technology.
Combined with the strength and capabilities of Playtechs IMS, this open platform is unrivalled in the industry.
16 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Games Games Tab client or web-based product.
The fast and Ash Gaming provides an entire Playtechs open platform was developed by seamless integration allows games to be new portfolio of proven content, Gaming Technology Solutions GTS which implemented across the entire product which is embedded in the was acquired in December 2009.
GTS partners portfolio, enabling valuable operator casino platform and offered with industry-leading game developers around cross-selling opportunities.
the world, and through its Enhanced Gaming to all casino licensees.
Engine EdGE, operators have access to content The incorporation of the EdGE system from these third-party suppliers, enabling into Playtechs IMS provides licensees with a regular offering of new games in addition additional tools to manage their online to localised content for particular markets.
operations, including comprehensive reporting, account management, customer support and The games library is continually expanding, promotional tools.
EdGE also forms part of Highlights: as developers come up with new and Playtechs cross-platform solution: games on Easy integration of games onto Playtechs exciting games and variations.
Games on the platform can be played using download, IMS either as a downloadable client or the EdGE Platform support multiple domains, web, mobile and tablet, TV and land-based web-based product are available in 30 different languages VLTs using a single account with one wallet.
Largest library of games with over 500 in most currencies.
games available Content from 20 different content providers Via the EdGE platform operators can choose from over 500 games, from more than 20 different content providers.
Along with integration to any games, bingo or casino offering, operators have the option of embedding mini or popup formats into their live sportsbook application.
The platform was designed as a cross-channel content delivery solution, with the ability to seamlessly integrate games to new and existing online operations, either as a downloadable Live Games The live dealer and TV formats attract a broad operators to attract traditional land-based Bringing live games to range of participants who enjoy interaction players into the online arena.
Live games also multiple platforms including with the dealers, the sense of trust when playing play a key part in an operators conversion web, TV, mobile, and tablets, with real cards on real tables, and the enhanced strategy: the option to use a private table area Playtechs live product community-feel of the playing experience, allows operators to fully promote their brand across a range of casino table games.
and other product offerings, through specific takes the authenticity of the targeted promotions.
land-based experience into Live Dealer Games the home and on the go.
Playtechs live dealer centres are designed Operators can offer fully-integrated casino as real, land-based casinos, which enable mini games alongside the live dealer games, generating valuable cross-selling opportunities.
The product is updated regularly to enhance Highlights: and maximise player engagement, including Underwent a comprehensive redevelopment much faster streaming capabilities.
The live Includes new features and functions product has a clear and efficient user interface, designed to capitalise on Playtechs first and the use of top of the line cameras mover advantage positioned at multiple viewpoints delivers Partnered with Casino Gran Madrid to offer HD broadcast quality, enabling players to live games to the Spanish market immediately experience the live land-based look & feel of the studio.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Business Review Products continued Bingo Virtue Fusions product offers the industrys With the unrivalled liquidity of the network The bingo network of choice for largest range of bingo variants, branded content supporting a huge international prize pool, blue-chip gaming companies and side games which delivers peak traffic of up licensees can deploy quickly in all markets, worldwide, Playtechs Virtue to 16,500 concurrent daily players.
offering the most attractive promotion and Fusion networks provide an life changing prizes.
Product Development award-winning bingo offering, Virtue Fusion has continued to focus on adding Regulated Markets connected to the industrys value across its licensee network through Playtech provides operators with exciting largest bingo liquidity pool ongoing product development.
A notable opportunities as newly-regulated bingo with over 65,000 daily players.
development being the launch of mobile bingo markets start to open up.
Playtechs Italian on Apple iOS and Android for use on tablets bingo network already has the regions leading and smartphones.
Virtue Fusions loyalty system operators on board, including SNAI, SISAL, also allows each licensee to set up a completely Eurobet and Codere, with more major licensees bespoke loyalty programme for their players by set to join the network.
assigning specific programme names, different Highlights: numbers of loyalty levels, a range of accrual Further strengthened its position as the rates per level, and various redemption rates largest bingo network in the.
com market per level and per bonus category.
Launch of Gala Bingo in May 2012 Launched mobile bingo on 24 August The popularity of side games, which account for approximately 38% of total bingo revenues, give the players access to the more than 500 leading games and over 60 embedded mini games, specifically designed for the bingo playing audience.
GTS EdGE with Virtue Fusion give licensees access to Playtechs ever increasing suite of market-leading branded and proprietary games in mini and full-screen formats.
Poker Enhancements Improved User Experience Home to Europes leading The iPoker network has the leading liquidity The fully customisable client supports multiple operators, Playtechs and offers a vast range of tournaments.
languages and currencies and offers exclusive iPoker network is the The player experience was enhanced during side games, a tournament calendar and largest independent poker 2012 by improving the user interface and the the fastest poker variation, speed Holdem.
ecology of the network through the poker Regular online satellites, land-based events, network in the world, with liquidity programme.
plus daily, weekly and monthly tournaments over 35,000 concurrent have a guaranteed prize fund of over 10 million players at peak time.
Superior performance, memory utilisation a month.
and high-resolution options ensure a smoother game flow for players, delivering continuous, uninterrupted gameplay.
The lobby integrates Highlights: cutting-edge design elements with slide Enhanced liquidity programme initiated animation, reflecting iPokers forward-thinking in August approach when it comes to player retention.
Launched a variation of speed holdem Betclic Everest Group launches its Everest Additional developments have added greater and Betclic poker brands with Playtech personalisation to the network to drive deeper Betfair launched with iPoker in early 2013 player engagement and achieve higher player Easy integration of new licensees retention and lifetime value.
18 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Videobet The Videobet product encompasses both 2012 Performance Videobet provides a complete terminal software and control systems.
By the end of 2012, in conjunction with end-to-end solution for landThese can be configured to meet a wide range The Global Draw, the UKs leading provider based gaming operations, of operational requirements, from VLT or of server-based gaming terminals, Videobet ranging from standalone remote multi-site operations to casino and had deployed over 23,000 terminals in the UK, slot hall management.
Videobet provides Mexico and Puerto Rico.
gaming machines to server access to the entire Playtech games portfolio, supported fixed odds betting including all branded and licensed content.
terminals FOBT and full server-based Video Lottery For an operator, the core of the offering is Terminals VLT.
the server-based technology that allows for remote management or on-demand changes.
These range from real-time management of games or bonuses, remote updating of software, or full terminal-level financial Highlights: reporting and control.
Added approximately 400 additional terminals Videobet works closely with its licensees Over 23,000 machines deployed to ensure that the product is localised to Offers true server-supported and meet their specific requirements.
The unified server-based gaming solutions back office system allows for real-time Game optimisation and remote software monitoring, control and updating of all updates lead to reduced downtime gaming machines from a single application and increased revenue and has the ability to connect to, and monitor, machines from third-party vendors.
Mobile Cross Platform Capability Mobile Bingo In-line with Playtechs strategy, Playtech Mobile enables valuable operator Mobile bingo was launched on 24 August 2012, the addition of the Mobile Hub cross-selling opportunities across casino games, enabling access to Playtechs bingo network, and Mobengas world class poker and live sports betting and offers players accessing the same jackpots and prizes found mobile sports betting platform, a seamless transition between web and mobile, online, with the ability to pre-purchase tickets using the same account and wallet.
Playtechs mobile products play an integral part of the In what is a very fast-growing gaming channel, Complete Solution cross-platform offering.
Playtech has significantly enhanced its mobile Through Playtechs exceptional mobile betting offering through the introduction of the Mobile channels and cross-product opportunities, Hub, which links Mobengas sportsbook a wide range of choices is become available offering to the remainder of Playtechs product to players, eliminating the need for different Highlights: verticals.
This gives players access to Playtechs mobile applications.
Another implication Significant enhancement of mobile full offering through high-end smartphones of this development is that those who gaming capabilities and tablets, including iPhone, iPad, and download the mobile application will Launch of Playtechs Mobile Hub, Andriod devices.
automatically have access to Playtechs linking Mobenga and Playtechs other complete suite of products, regardless product verticals Mobile Marketing of which channel was originally chosen.
Launch of mobile bingo A range of specialised marketing tools, including Web2mobile user conversion tools, targeted promotions via SMS and an Invite a friend feature, allow operators the ability to leverage the mobile platform and maximise cross-sell opportunities.
Pla Pl yt tech ch h Limi L Li imit it te ed d d An A Ann nual uall R R Re epor port t t and and d Accou Accou A n nt t ts s 20 20 201 1 12 2 2 19 19 19 Business Review Products continued Sports Betting Sports Mobenga Playtechs sports betting Playtech has substantially increased its sports Playtechs leading mobile sportsbook capability has been transformed betting capabilities in the past year and now platform allows operators to have a fully with the acquisition of two has a highly sophisticated solution across both integrated mobile sports betting offering, market-leading developers online and mobile channels.
delivered seamlessly onto handheld devices focusing on mobile and including smartphones and tablets, across Geneity a number of operating systems see further online segments.
In January 2012, Playtech acquired Geneity, information on the following page.
With the developer of a next generation and further mobile growth being forecast, fully-featured sportsbook GenBet.
Geneitys Mobenga coupled with Geneitys leading edge platform is a highly competitive, flexible technology is well placed to deliver to of those Highlights: offering, designed to take advantage of the licensees wanting to gain further market share.
Launched the mobile hub, linking latest trends, concepts and technologies.
Its Mobengas leading sportsbook offering sportsbook platform, GenBet, has sought to to Playtechs other product verticals provide significant structural improvements Full integration of the most exciting sports on existing management systems to take betting platform developer, Geneity Playtechs sportsbook offering to the next level.
Launched 2 licensees with Geneity, with further licensees to join in the near future The GenBet architecture is modular in design, robust, proven and highly scalable allowing the same basic system to be tailored to both large and small operators.
The platform has been designed to address bottlenecks experienced in traditional sportsbook platforms, whether in terms of speed of pricing or bet placement, or in development time-to-market for client-facing tools and features.
Social In June 2012, Playtech entered into a software brand access to the social gaming market.
With the industry turning its licence agreement with Skywind Holdings, The software licence agreement provides attention to social gaming, providing the Company with a wide range Playtech with access to a broad range of social Playtech is at the cutting edge of both social gaming and real money gaming platforms and products in addition of this movement, penetrating software, primarily focused on the rapidly to complementary real money products and the market to offer our expanding social gaming market and further development potential giving them strengthening the Companys mobile a unique position in the market.
licensees a range of leading gaming product range respectively.
Positioning Playtech for the Future Access to a Large Developed Market The combination of Playtechs wide distribution Social gaming has experienced significant channels, expertise in content development, growth over the last two years and is now back end and online marketing capabilities, Highlights: a multi-billion dollar market with revenues and the broad range of products licensed under Licensing deal with Skywind Holdings generated in a number of ways, including the the software agreement, positions the Group to offer social gaming and real money real money purchase by end users of social the amongst the leading B2B providers to the software to the market currency such as Facebook credits.
Playtech will have the Potential for building a significant new has been monitoring developments in the social ability to offer cross platform capabilities for stream of additional earnings for Playtech gaming arena closely, analysing a number of a full suite of products, including social casino, ways to offer current licensees and third party poker, bingo and rummy.
20 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
