Governance Governance Corporate Governance continued The Company considers that the Board and its Committees Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive officer and The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management Shareholders who are not able to attend the AGM are have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, Senior Independent Director of the Group and developing the Groups business strategy, encouraged to submit proxy votes either electronically or in The Board has approved the division of responsibilities objectives, budget and forecasts and, once approved independence and knowledge of the Company to enable paper format.
At the Companys 2012 AGM we received votes them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer CEO by the Board, overseeing their successful implementation.
representing approximately 85% of our issued share capital.
All Directors have access to the advice and services and the role of the Senior Independent Director SID.
The Chief Executive officer reports to the Chairman and The results of the proxy vote are read at the meeting with the of the Company Secretary, and are able to take independent to the Board directly.
The Board interacts with the executive final results announced via the London Stock Exchange and professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Chairman reports to the Board and is responsible for the management on a regular basis.
Directors welcome senior available on the website.
leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board and setting executives to attend relevant parts of the Board and Board meetings the Boards agenda.
His responsibilities include: committee meetings for reporting on items of the agenda In addition, our AGM provides a valuable opportunity for In 2012, the Board met seven times.
Further business was and participating in discussion.
All members of executive shareholders to meet with and put questions to the Directors Q effective running of the Board: approved by written resolutions of the Board on two occasions.
management report directly to the Chief Executive officer.
The 2012 AGM was attended by all Directors, Q ensuring there is appropriate delegation of authority from the His responsibilities include: including the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration Board to executive management: Role of the Board and Nomination Committees.
Live webcast and conference Q development and proposal of Group strategy, including Q promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating The Board is responsible for: call facilities are available for the shareholders unable to be communicating annual plans and commercial objectives the effective contribution of non-executive Directors in present in person and a recording of the AGM webcast Q dening the commercial strategy and long-term objectives to the Board: particular and ensuring constructive relations between is made available on the Companys website.
of the Group: Q upholding the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, executive and non-executive Directors: Q approving annual operating and capital expenditure budgets customers, employees and other stakeholders: Q encouraging active engagement by all members of the The primary means of communication with the majority and any material changes to them: Q identifying and executing strategic opportunities: Board: and of our shareholders, who have not requested paper copies Q overseeing the Groups operations, ensuring: competent and Q regularly reviewing the operational performance and of our documentation, is through our corporate website Q ensuring that the views of the shareholders are prudent management: sound planning: a strong system of strategic direction of the Group: www.
communicated to the Board as a whole.
internal control: and compliance with all statutory and Q making recommendations on remuneration policies, regulatory obligations: Board and Committee meetings attendance Mr Godsell is able to commit sufficient time to his role as executive remuneration and terms of employment Q reviewing the performance of the Group in the light of its Audit non-executive Chairman of Polymetal International.
for senior employees: and Risk Remuneration Nomination business strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets Mr Godsells other significant commitment is membership Q ensuring the development needs of the executive Directors Board Committee Committee Committee and ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: 1 2 3 of the South African National Planning Commission, a meetings meetings meetings meetings and senior management are identied and met and ensuring seven three two two Q approving any material extension of the Groups activities government commission, and up to March 2012 was the Chair effective succession planning: and into new businesses or geographic areas and any decision of the board of Optimum Coal Holdings, a Johannesburg listed Bobby Godsell all n a n a all Q ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that to cease to operate all or any material part of the Groups medium size coal mining company.
In January 2012 he also Vitaly Nesis all n a n a n a appropriate, timely and accurate information is disclosed to business: and accepted a non-executive directorship in the South African Jonathan Best all all all n a the market, with issues escalated promptly to the executive state owned Industrial Development Corporation, however, Q ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives and Russell Skirrow all all n a n a management and the Board.
the additional time commitment required by this additional maintaining constructive dialogue with shareholders.
Leonard Homeniuk all n a all all role is more than offset by the termination of his role on the Senior Independent Director Charles Balfour all all all all board of Optimum Coal Holdings, acquired by Glencore The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed Charles Balfour acts as the Boards Senior Independent Konstantin Yanakov all n a n a n a International plc.
Mr Balfour is available to shareholders and as an Marina Grnberg all n a n a n a intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He attends Jean-Pascal meetings with major shareholders to listen to their views in Duvieusart all n a n a n a order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues Notes and concerns of major shareholders.
Meetings between 1 Further business conducted by the Board was approved by written resolutions independent Directors, including Mr Balfour, and major on two further occasions.
2 Further business conducted by the Audit and Risk Committee was approved institutional shareholders took place in 2012.
The Board by written resolutions on two further occasions.
is regularly updated on the shareholders opinions following 3 Further business conducted by the Remuneration Committee was approved Audit &Risk Remuneration Nomination meetings with the Companys management.
by written resolutions on three further occasions.
Committee Committee Committee member member member Evaluation and re-election policies Appointed Executive Non-executive Independent chairman chairman chairman Board member Separate meetings are held between with the non-executive Nomination Committee Directors without the Chairman or executive Directors being Bobby Godsell 29 September 2011 Chairman The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Godsell and 1 present: and between the independent non-executive Vitaly Nesis 29 September 2011 its other members are Mr Homenuik and Mr Balfour.
The Directors without the other non-executive Directors being 2 Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 Chairman Member Committee has responsibility for making recommendations present.
This includes both formal and informal meetings 3 Russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 Member to the Board on the composition of the Board and its between Directors.
4 Leonard Homeniuk 29 September 2011 Chairman Member Committees, including appointments of additional and 5 replacement Directors.
The Committee: Charles Balfour 29 September 2011 Member Member Member Constructive use of the AGM 6 Q leads the process for Board appointments and makes Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and 7 recommendations to the Board: to encourage their participation.
To ensure the Companys Marina Grnberg 29 September 2011 shareholders have time to consider our Annual Report and Q regularly reviews the Board structure, size and composition Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 Accounts and Notice of the AGM and lodge their proxy votes including the skills, knowledge, independence, experience 1 Mr Nesis was appointed CEO of JSC Polymetal, the previous parent and reporting entity of the Group, on 30 June 2004. in good time, all meeting materials are mailed more than 2 and diversity and makes recommendations to the Board Mr Best was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 28 December 2006.
3 Dr Skirrow was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008.
20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions about any changes that the Committee considers necessary: 4 Mr Homeniuk was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 29 June 2010. are proposed on each substantially separate subject and all 5 Senior Independent Director 6 resolutions are put to a poll.
The Company also offers Mr Yanakov was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008.
7 Ms Grnberg was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008. shareholders the ability to abstain.
92 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 93 Governance Governance Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued Q considers plans and makes recommendations to the regularly receive updates on changes to the corporate Q reviewed the critical risks and exposures of the Group, Board for orderly succession to the Board and to senior governance and regulatory requirements and other changes including tax risks: management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of affecting the Company.
The Board is kept informed of relevant Q recommended approval of Deloitte LLP as external skills and experience within the Company and on the Board developments in the Company by way of monthly management auditors: and and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board, taking reports, including comprehensive information on operating and Q reviewed the capability of Groups finance team.
into account the challenges and opportunities facing financial performance and progress of capital projects.
A eld Performed a self assessment review of the Committees the Company: trip to the Omolon and Dukat hubs for non-executive Directors effectiveness relative to the requirements of its terms took place in October 2012.
Q keeps under review the leadership needs of the Group, both of reference.
executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the There were two meetings of the Nomination Committee in continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the In 2012 the Committee focused in particular on risks 2012.
Evaluation of performance of the Board, its Committees marketplace: including those relating to tax following recent rulings and and individual Directors was performed in 2012.
Q before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluate the made significant progress in improving the quality of external balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence and internal reporting.
The Nomination Committee at its meetings discussed diversity and diversity of the Board, and in the light of this evaluation and ways of helping to promote women in the Company.
prepares a description of the role and capabilities required Further, the Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the The Board welcomes diversity at all levels: it believes that the for a particular appointment and the expected time approach taken both by management and the external auditors right way to approach diversity is not to introduce xed quotas, commitment: and Dear Shareholders in the key judgements and risk areas of the financial reporting, but to seek the right qualities in every appointment, where ensuring the fair presentation of the Companys financial Q reviews the results of the Boards performance evaluation competence comes first.
Diversity becomes a bonus of such As part of the Boards overall responsibilities in particular statements, supported by an independent external audit.
process that relate to the composition of the Board and an approach.
Despite challenges presented by the industry as they relate to risk management and internal control the whether non-executive Directors are spending enough the Company operates in, it takes steps to promote women Audit and Risk Committee has a specic role in the review In common with the Companys overall approach to time to full their duties.
including hiring women in positions traditionally held by men.
and supervision of the Companys financial reporting and governance, we have instilled a strong culture of discipline This approach has led to an increase in the number of women internal controls.
In addition, it has responsibility for the throughout our business, and are confident that we have There were no changes to the Board structure in 2012 and the holding senior positions in the Group from 19% in 2011 review, evaluation and stewardship of the Companys risk a strong system of exible processes which enable the Company has not employed external search consultants.
to 23% in 2012. management processes with particular emphasis on areas Committee to operate effectively.
of possible or likely change.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company Full terms of reference of the Nomination At a meeting of the Committee held on 23 April 2013 the the Articles, at every Annual General Meeting one third of the Committee are available at the Companys website: The Audit and Risk Committee is a fully independent body, Committee reviewed the financial statements for the 2012 Directors on the Board must retire or, if the number of Directors www.
com consisting only of Independent non-executive Directors with financial year and the report from the external auditors is not divisible by three, the number of Directors nearest to one relevant skills and experience in financial reporting and risk was considered.
After due consideration the Committee third shall retire from ofce but any Director who has held ofce The Board considers that the composition of the Board and management.
recommends the approval of the 2012 financial statements for three years or more since he or she was last appointed the Nomination Committee complies with the requirements by the Board and shareholders.
or re-appointed at the date xed for the annual general of the UK Code.
In 2012 three meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee were meeting must retire.
In accordance with the UK Code, all held and further business conducted by the Committee was The Committee also reviewed various assurance reports Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Board evaluation approved by written resolutions on two further occasions.
provided by the external auditor, internal audit and The Board carried out a performance evaluation of itself, its The Audit and Risk Committee dealt with the following matters: management and concluded that in respect of the 2012 Full terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Committees, the Chairman and CEO.
This was conducted financial year the system of internal financial controls is Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Q reviewed and recommended for approval financial and risk without the assistance of an external facilitator.
In accordance adequate and that there were no significant breakdowns information included in the Annual Report 2011: registered ofce.
with the UK Code, it is the Boards intention that the evaluation in internal controls.
process will be externally facilitated every three years.
Q reviewed and recommended for approval Polymetals results The Directors biographical details are set out on pages 88 to for the six months to 30 June 2012: Going forward, we as a Committee are set to operate 89 and the Board considers that each of the Directors will be The process consisted of the Board discussing its composition Q discussed and approved the Committee work plan: effectively as a key body scrutinising the reporting, internal an effective contributor to the success of the Group.
Following and operational integrity: the balance of executive and Q supervised compliance with the Companys Anti-Bribery control and risk management process in order to ensure their performance evaluations, the Chairman believes that each non-executive Directors, independent Directors and Directors and Corruption Policy: transparency and objectivity of the Companys reporting.
Director standing for re-election continues to be effective representing major shareholders: the balance of skills, Q reviewed the Groups internal audit plan and monitored the and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
experience, and knowledge of the Company: and international A performance evaluation of the Chairman was conducted effectiveness of internal audit: diversity.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held by the Board in 2012, and the Board believes that the Q reviewed the Groups external audit plan and recommended was discussed as well as the performance of each Committee Chairman continues to be effective and to demonstrate for approval the year end audit fee: of the Board: it was agreed that the Board worked effectively commitment to his role.
The remuneration of Directors and senior Q reviewed the actual audit fee in 2012 compared to the management was also considered.
Areas for further authorised amount: Upon appointment, Directors receive a full induction, including: Jonathan Best development identied included the enhancement of formal Q approved the terms of engagement, including engagement information about the Company: an outline of the role of a Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee succession planning, and the process by which assessment letter issued at the start of each audit and the scope of Director and a summary of his or her responsibilities and of individual Board member performance was performed.
the audit: ongoing obligations under legislation, regulation and best The overall conclusion was that the Board and its Committees practice: a Copy of the UK Listing Authority UKLA Model Q reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the operated successfully and that Directors receive accurate, Code, and details of the Companys policies regarding external auditor: timely and clear information ensuring ongoing board Directors share dealings and the disclosure of price sensitive effectiveness.
Each Director continues to contribute effectively information.
Directors also receive the Companys guidelines and to demonstrate commitment to the role including on matters reserved for the Board and terms of reference of commitment of time for board and committee meetings the Board committees and other governing documents of the and any other duties.
Directors and chairmen of the Board committees 94 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 95 Governance Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Companys Internal control and risk management Internal control framework and activities The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Mr Best and its relationship with its external auditors relating to the provision The Company aims to ensure that all its activities are The management structure of the Group and internal policies adequately controlled to mitigate risk and support the other members are Mr Skirrow and Mr Balfour, all independent of non-audit services to ensure that auditor objectivity and and procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust control non-executive Directors.
The Directors consider that Mr Best independence is safeguarded.
This is achieved by disclosure achievement of its objectives, while avoiding the creation framework within the Group which will result in the has recent and relevant financial experience refer to page 89 of the extent and nature of non-audit services see Note 14 of excessive bureaucracy.
The system of internal controls achievement of strategic objectives within the set risk tolerance for details of Mr Bests experience.
In addition, the other to the consolidated financial statements and the prohibition is designed to manage rather than completely eliminate levels.
This framework includes: members of the Committee have a wide range of financial against selected services being provided by the external the risk to achieve the Companys business objectives Q appropriate tone set from the top from the Board level, and other relevant experience.
Policy on the provision of non-audit services by the in order to bring the residual risk to an acceptable level.
aimed at building the appropriate control environment: external auditor was approved by the Committee in 2012 and Q a proper risk identication and management system The responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee comprise: defines permitted audit and non-audit services.
Pre-approval In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk for more detail please refer to page 76 : thresholds are in place for the provision of non-audit services management and internal control including financial, operating Q monitoring the integrity of the Groups consolidated financial Q the strict division of responsibilities and adequate delegation by the external auditor, for which the pre-approval of the and compliance controls, the Board considers the key findings statements and reviewing its annual and interim financial of authority: CFO if below US$5,000, Chairman of the Audit and Risk from the ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, statements, including, but not limited to: the consistency of, Committee if between US$5,000 and US$20,000, and Audit management assertions and independent assurance reports.
Q specic control activities implemented at all levels of the and any changes to, accounting and treasury policies across and Risk Committee if above US$20,000 is required.
Above The Board also takes account of material changes and trends Group: and the Company and the Group: the methods used to account a certain threshold, if it is determined that the external auditor in the risk prole and considers whether the control system, for significant or unusual transactions: the reasonableness Q a periodic review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
has no obvious competitive advantage in the performance of including reporting, adequately supports the Board in achieving of significant estimates and judgements, taking into account proposed non-audit services, then the provider of those its risk management objectives.
the views of the external auditor: and the clarity and The governance framework reects the specic structure and services must be chosen by way of a competitive tender.
completeness of disclosure in the consolidated management of the Group, where authority and control are Certain types of non-audit work may be undertaken by the During the course of the year the Board considered the delegated by the Board to different levels, from the Chief financial statements: auditors without prior referral to the Audit and Risk Committee Groups responsiveness to changes within its business Executive to the managers of the Groups operating entities Q considering and making recommendations to the Board, to environment.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing up to a cumulative annual value of US$100,000.
Any further and then downward to business and project managers be put to the shareholders to consider at the annual general non-audit work is subject to approval by the Audit and Risk process, which has been operational during the year, and as appropriate.
meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, Committee in further tranches of US$100,000.
In the event up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, resignation or removal of the Groups external auditors: that the cumulative value of non-audit fees exceeds evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Within this framework, authority is delegated within clearly Q overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors US$500,000 in any given year, separate approval of the the Group.
prescribed limits and decisions are escalated where either and reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process: Audit and Risk Committee is required explaining why there project size or risk prole require a higher level of authority.
the Committee meets with the external auditors at least once is no threat to independence.
A copy of the policy is available Internal audit a year without management being present, to discuss their The internal audit function supports this aim by providing the on the Companys website.
In addition to controls operating in specic areas production, remit and any issues arising from the audit: Directors, through the Audit and Risk Committee, with an exploration, construction, procurement, the control framework Q reviewing the independence of external auditors and the The Audit and Risk Committee has considered information objective evaluation of the Companys and the Groups also includes a set of common procedures for financial appropriateness of the provision of any non-audit services pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit governance framework.
The internal audit function also aims accounting, reporting and budgeting see details below.
by the external auditor: work for the Company in 2012 and concluded that the nature to raise levels of understanding and awareness of risk and and extent of non-audit services provided do not present control throughout the Group.
Q reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary a threat to the external auditors objectivity or independence.
controls and risk management systems: have been or are being taken to remedy any failings or The head of internal audit reports to the CEO and, through the weaknesses in the Groups system of internal controls.
Q monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Groups The re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external Audit and Risk Committee, to the Board of Directors.
Where This has involved considering the matters reported to it and internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
relevant, the internal audit function will additionally report its developing plans and programmes that it considers are risk management system: Deloitte LLP were appointed auditors in 2011, with Deloitte CIS findings to members of the Companys executive management.
Based on the results of the Q reviewing the Groups policies and procedures for preventing having been auditors of JSC Polymetal since the last tendering review of risk management and internal control activities, and detecting fraud, the systems and controls in place for process in 2007.
The internal audit functions annual work plan is designed to undertaken by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee, preventing bribery, and its policies for ensuring that the focus on matters arising from the operational risk matrix and the Board considers that the risk management and internal Group complies with relevant regulatory and legal The Committees assessment of the external auditors is approved by the Audit and Risk Committee in advance.
control systems are in accordance with the Revised Guidance requirements: and performance and independence underpins its recommendation for Directors on the UK Code.
to the Board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment The internal audit function uses an annual self-certication of Deloitte LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the AGM process, which requires managers throughout the Group Full terms of reference of the Audit and Risk in 2014.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint and to personally confirm the testing of internal controls and Committee are available at the Companys website: compliance with Group policies within their business or determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM www.
com on 12 June 2013. function and the steps taken to address actual or potential issues that are identied.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the The Board considers that the Audit and Risk Committee interim and annual financial statements remains with the complies with the requirements of the UK Code.
Management provides a timely response to issues raised by Board.
The Committee gives due consideration to applicable internal audit.
Where possible, the issues are resolved within laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Code and the one reporting period.
requirements of the Listing Rules.
96 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 97 Governance Governance Audit and Risk Committee report Directors report continued Financial reporting systems Controls over IT systems used in financial accounting The Directors submit the Annual Report of Polymetal Directors indemnities The quality of the financial accounting and reporting is ensured and reporting International Plc together with the audited financial To the extent permitted by the Companies Jersey Law 1991, through a set of control procedures in the following areas: The Group uses a 1C: Enterprise 8 ERP system for automation statements of Polymetal International Plc for the year the Company indemnified every Director or other officer of the accounting methodology, preliminary review of the new of everyday enterprise activities.
These include various ended 31 December 2012.
Company other than any person whether an officer or not transactions, documentation, accounting techniques and business tasks of economic and management functions, engaged by the Company as auditor out of the assets of the financial closing procedures.
such as management accounting, business accounting, Principal activities and business review Company against any liability incurred by him for negligence, HR management, CRM, SRM, MRP.
Polymetal also uses the Polymetal International is a large gold and silver mining default, breach of duty, breach of trust or otherwise in relation Accounting policies are developed centrally for each of the ERP system for budgeting, accounting, HR record keeping company, operating central processing hubs and a number to the affairs of the Company.
This provision does not affect Groups subsidiaries and are adapted for the peculiarities and payroll, supply chain management, operational reporting, of standalone mines in Russia and Kazakhstan.
Detailed any indemnity that a Director or officer is otherwise entitled to.
of each entity and the Group-wide policies.
The Group operates an IT management information on the Groups business, activities and financial responsible for accounting and reporting functions have framework based on COBIT Control Objectives for Information performance can be found in Overview and Business Review Supplier payment policy powers to review upcoming transactions and propose and Related Technology, which provides a complete set sections of this report on pages from 2 to 61.
These sections The Companys and the Groups policy is to set the terms adjustments, where necessary, to ensure proper accounting of high-level requirements to be considered by for effective also include description of likely future developments and any of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each and tax treatments.
control of each IT process.
research and development activities held by the Company transaction, ensure that the suppliers are made aware of the and the Group.
terms of payment and abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The use of a centralised ERP system in each of the Group UK Bribery Act 2010 Polymetal International plc itself is a holding company and companies ensures unication of the business and accounting The Company and the Directors are committed to ensuring Principal risks and uncertainties therefore did not have any material trade creditors as at processes.
The Group implements a multi-level set of controls adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards.
This Refer to pages 77 to 79 for a description of principal risks and 31 December 2012. over financial and accounting data recorded in the system.
must be reected in every aspect of the way in which the uncertainties and the Groups response and pages 97 to 98 These controls involve the accounting department of each Group operates.
Bribery is a criminal offence in the countries for a description of the main features of Groups system of Charitable and political donations subsidiary, senior management of the subsidiary and controls in which the Group operates, and corrupt acts expose the internal control.
For details of financial risk management, The Company may not make a political donation to a political at the Head Ofce level.
In addition, the accounting and Group and its employees to the risk of prosecution, fines please refer to Note 30 on page 152. party or other political organisation, or to an independent reporting data are regularly audited by internal and and imprisonment, as well as endangering the Companys election candidate, or incur any political expenditure, unless external auditors.
The Group has anti-bribery policies in place, which Corporate governance such donation or expenditure is authorised by an ordinary extend across all of Groups business dealings in all countries Refer to pages 90 to 98 for a description of the Groups resolution of shareholders passed before the donation is Procedures for approval of capital and current and territories in which the Group operates and apply to all corporate governance structure and policies.
made or the expenditure incurred.
No such donations were expenditures employees of the Group, as well as relevant business partners made in 2012 2011: none.
The Company prepares annual operating and capital and other relevant individuals and entities.
The Board attaches Going concern expenditure budgets based on its current and strategic the utmost importance to this policy and applies a zero The business of the Group, its strategy and the factors Many of the regions in which the Group operates are goals and objectives.
In addition to periodic control of actual tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any of that may affect future performance are described on pages 2 considered socially and economically undeveloped areas of financial performance versus budgeted, a procedure of the Groups employees or by business partners working on the to 61 of this report.
The risks in achieving the Groups strategic Russia and Kazakhstan.
The Group pursues a responsible ongoing control and authorisation of expenses is in place.
Groups behalf and prohibits the payment, offer or authorisation objectives, together with assessment of their potential impact social strategy in those regions and views the implementation The current system of pre-approval of significant transactions, of bribes, the receipt or acceptance of a bribe, or the payment, and mitigating actions are set out on pages 77 to 79 of this of long-term social programmes as a key factor in the along with accounting procedures in the ERP system, offer or promise to pay any facilitating payments.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows and sustainability of the Groups operations.
achieves a level of control over the amount and this policy is regarded as a serious matter by the Company and liquidity are further analysed on pages 62 to 75 of this report.
is likely to result in disciplinary action.
The Groups social programmes focus on the social and The Board, having considered all relevant factors related economic development priorities in the regions in which it Treasury operations As part of its implementation of internal procedures to comply to financial position, risks and business prospects of the operates and aims to improve education and healthcare, The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which with the UK Bribery Act, the Group has in place a formalised Group, and its projected future cash ows, has a reasonable develop local infrastructure, promote sports and healthy is responsible for payments on behalf of all subsidiaries whistle-blowing policy which describes processes in place for expectation that the Group has adequate resources to lifestyles, promote the cultural and artistic potential of the of the Group.
Use of such a centralised system achieves staff to communicate, in confidence, concerns about possible continue operations in the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the local population and support local communities.
the best level of control over the payments function without improprieties, unethical or illegal activities and ensures that Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing compromising the speed and reliability of payments.
arrangements are in place for independent investigation the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012.
As part of this social programme, the Group has entered into All interactions with banks on accounts maintenance, of such matters.
Refer also to Note 1 of the financial statements.
social partnership agreements with municipalities and regional deposits and borrowings and foreign currency transactions governments.
Under these social partnership agreements, the is also performed at the Head Ofce level.
Copies of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and the Financial and business reporting Group organises and nances a variety of humanitarian whistle-blowing policy are available on request from the The Board believes that the disclosures set out on pages 2 projects and development and maintenance projects in these Companys ofces.
to 75 of this Annual Report provide the information necessary communities.
In addition, the Group also undertakes various for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, social projects in accordance with the agreements with the business model and strategy.
public organisations of indigenous minorities of the north of Russia IMN and in accordance with the Groups own Directors charitable programmes.
More detail on these activities The Directors, their status and Board Committee memberships can be found on pages 86 to 87 of this Annual Report.
are set out on pages 88 to 92 of the report.
In 2012, the Group spent US$6.1 million on social and Directors interests community projects 2011: US$4.0 million.
Information on Directors interests in shares of the Company is set out in the Remuneration report on page 108.
98 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 99
