Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General significant shareholders Corporate information At 31 December 2012, the significant shareholders in the Company were: Pearlmoon Limited, the ultimate beneficial owner Polymetal International plc the Company was incorporated on 29 July 2010 as a public limited company under Companies of which is Petr Kellner 20.83%, Powerboom Investments Limited, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Alexander Nesis Jersey Law 1991.
17.87%, Vitalbond Limited and its afliated companies, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Alexander Mamut 10.11%, MBC Development Limited, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Mr Alexander Mosionzhik 4.44%, and Staroak Limited, On 2 November 2011, the Company was admitted to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority and commenced trading on the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Mr Oleg Shuliakovskii 4.26%.
the London Stock Exchanges premium listed market.
The Company became the new ultimate parent company of Joint Stock Company Polymetal JSC Polymetal and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates the JSC Polymetal Group and owned Following the admission to trading of shares issued in respect of ZAO Maminskaya Gornorudnaya kompania acquisition 83.26% of the issued share capital of JSC Polymetal as at 31 December 2011, with 8.11% held by third parties and 8.63% see Note 35 on 9 April 2013, the significant shareholders are as follows: Pearlmoon Limited 20.50%, Powerboom Investments effectively held as treasury shares.
Limited 17.59%, Vitalbond 9.95%, MBC Development Limited 4.36%, Staroak Limited 4.19% and Morgan Stanley & Co International Plc 4.11%.
On 17 February 2012, the Company executed the Mandatory Tender Offer the MTO made on 23 November 2011 at a cost of US$534 million acquiring 30,317,610 shares in JSC Polymetal via its wholly-owned subsidiary PMTL Ltd.
Going concern In assessing its going concern status, the Directors have taken account of the Groups financial position, anticipated future On execution of the MTO, Otkritie Securities Ltd tendered the shares it had legally acquired in JSC Polymetal, which for trading performance, its borrowings and other available credit facilities and its capital expenditure commitments and plans.
accounting purposes were then effectively transferred from being shown as treasury shares in JSC Polymetal to being held by PMTL Ltd with a corresponding reduction in the level of the non-controlling interest.
The Group settled the loan balance with The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, having taken account of reasonably possible changes Otkritie Securities Ltd through a payment of US$250 million.
in trading performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months from the date of this document and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Through these two transactions, the Companys holding in JSC Polymetal increased to 397,287,592 Ordinary Shares, these consolidated financial statements.
representing approximately 99.48% of the total share capital of JSC Polymetal.
On 20 April 2012, the Company delivered notice of its intention to proceed with a statutory squeeze out i. e. purchase of the remaining JSC Polymetal shares on terms and within Basis of presentation the period as provided under applicable Russian law.
In the period to 10 July 2012 2,087,408 additional shares in JSC Polymetal The Groups annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are prepared in accordance with were acquired such that at that date the Companys holding in JSC Polymetal had further increased to 399,375,000 shares, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and representing 100% of the total share capital of JSC Polymetal.
endorsed by the European Union.
IFRS includes the standards and interpretations approved by the IASB including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Total cash outows in respect of the MTO and Squeeze Out for the year amounted to US$569 million, offsetting the share purchase liability recognised when the offer was initially made.
This comprised MTO payments of US$534 million and other The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are payments of US$35 million.
On execution of the MTO and the Squeeze Out, the non-controlling interest balance in reserves was derecognised in proportion The accounting policies set out in Note 2 have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year to the percentage acquired in the period, with the minoritys share of the other reserves previously transferred to non-controlling ended 31 December 2012. interests on the original formation of the Group transferred back.
The treasury shares balance and the share purchase obligation reserve were also eliminated.
The difference of US$399 million was recognised within retained earnings.
Reclassications Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year and current year financial statements has been made significant subsidiaries during the period, comparative gures have been restated accordingly.
As disclosed above at 31 December 2012, the Company held an effective 100% interest in JSC Polymetal.
Through this subsidiary, the Company held the following significant mining and production subsidiaries: In the current period shipping expenses have been presented within cost of sales rather than within general, administrative and selling expenses.
The comparative information has been revised to be on a consistent basis with costs of US$9.6 million for the Effective interest held by JSC Polymetal, % year ended 31 December 2011 being reclassied.
Country of 31 December 31 December Deposits incorporation 2012 2011 Name of subsidiary At 31 December 2012 US$39 million of ore stock piles at Omolon were classied as non-current inventories following managements assessment that these stock piles will be processed starting from 2016.
Previously these amounts were CJSC Gold of Northern Urals Vorontsovskoye Russia 100 100 included within current metal inventories.
The comparative gures of US$14 million have been restated to be presented LLC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company Khakandjinskoye Russia 100 100 on a consistent basis.
Yurievskoye Avlayakan At 31 December 2012 US$4 million on capital spare parts were classied as property, plant and equipment rather than Ozernoye non-current inventories.
The comparative gures of US$2.3 million have been restated to be presented on a consistent basis.
CJSC Magadan Silver Dukat Russia 100 100 Lunnoye Arylakh Goltsovoye Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC Mayskoye Russia 100 100 Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC Kubaka Russia 100 100 Birkachan Sopka Kvartsevaya Albazino Resources Ltd Albazino Russia 100 100 Amur Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC N A Russia 100 100 JSC Varvarinskoye Varvarinskoye Kazakhstan 100 100 116 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 117 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
General continued 2. significant accounting policies Standards and interpretations in issue not yet adopted Basis of consolidation The following new or amended IFRS accounting standards not yet adopted may have a significant impact on the Group: Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries and, IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine provides a model for accounting for costs associated if applicable, special purpose entities, from the date that control effectively commenced until the date that control effectively with the removal of waste during the production phase of a surface mine, including guidance on the apportionment of the ceased.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity costs incurred for obtaining a current and future benefit and how capitalised costs are depreciated.
This interpretation applies so as to obtain benets from its activities.
to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income The following new, amended or revised IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted are not expected statement from the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
to have a significant impact on the Group: When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classication and Measurement reects the first phase of the IASBs three stage project those used by other members of the Group.
The first phase deals with the classication and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
All intra-Group balances, transactions and any unrealised profits or losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses accounting for consolidated financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 Changes to the Groups ownership interests that do not result in a loss of control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as provides a single basis for consolidation with a new denition of control.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reect the change on or after 1 January 2014. in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Parent.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers.
Under IFRS 11 a joint arrangement is classied as either a joint operation or a joint venture, and the When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on the disposal is calculated as the difference between 1 the option to proportionately consolidate joint ventures has been removed.
Interests in joint ventures must be equity accounted.
aggregated fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and 2 the previous carrying amount This standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and non-controlling interests.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities will accompany IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
This standard combines the disclosure For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion requirements previously covered by IAS 27, related to consolidated financial statements, IAS 31 Interest in Joint Ventures and of the fair values of net assets recognised at acquisition.
Thereafter, a share of the profit or loss for the financial year and other IAS 28 Investments in Associates, as well as including additional disclosure requirements.
This standard applies to annual movements in the net assets or liabilities of the subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the income periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. statement and balance sheet.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provides a single framework for all fair value measurements and applies to annual periods Business combinations beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the denition of a business combination.
When acquiring new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities assumed An amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which requires items to be grouped in other comprehensive constitute an integrated set of activities, whether the integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed as a business income based on whether those items are subsequently reclassied to profit or loss.
The amendment is to be applied by a market participant, and thus whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, using the guidance provided in for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. the standard.
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and An amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benets is to be applied retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the 1 January 2013. consolidated income statement as incurred.
Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business combination are expensed.
Provisional fair values are nalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Amendments have been made to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and it has been reissued as IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements.
The revised standard prescribes the accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition may include an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements.
The accounting and disclosure arrangement.
Contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in consolidated financial statements are prescribed by transferred in a business combination.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
The revised standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. retrospectively with the corresponding adjustment against goodwill where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement Amendments have been made to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and it has been reissued as IAS 28 Investments in period about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The measurement period may not exceed one year Associates and Joint Ventures.
The revised standard prescribes the application of the equity method when accounting for from the effective date of the acquisition.
The subsequent accounting for contingent consideration that does not qualify for as investments in associates and joint ventures.
The revised standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after a measurement period adjustment is based on how the contingent consideration is classied.
Contingent consideration that 1 January 2013. is classied as equity is not subsequently remeasured.
Contingent consideration that is classied as an asset or liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets Amendments to IFRS 1 Government loans and to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities or IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement with the corresponding amount being recognised in profit or loss.
are effective for annual periods on or after 1 January 2013.
The identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation is effective for annual periods on or after 1 January 2014.
Q deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benets, respectively: 118 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 119
