Business review Business review Risks and risk management Impact financial consequences US$50m US$50m-US$10mUS$10m-US$5mUS$5m-US$0.1m US$0.1m Catastrophic Major Moderate Insignicant Minor Q significant impact Q Major impact on Q Serious impact on Q Minimal impact on Q Minor impact on strategy on strategy or strategy strategy or operational strategy or operational or operational activities operational activities or operational activities activities activities Q Limited stakeholder Q Multiple significant Q Major stakeholder Q Moderate stakeholder Q Low stakeholder concern Effective risk identication stakeholder concern concern concern concern Likelihood probability and management Almost certain Likely Possible Unlikely Rare Occurs one or more times Occurs less than once Could occur or may has happened at some Is highly unlikely per year and is likely to a year and is likely to reoccur at some point time or could happen that it could occur reoccur within one year reoccur within five years within 10 years within 20 years in the next 20 years Residual risk level High Medium Low in which we operate.
Our risk identication system considers Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Managing our risks well is critical not only single, mutually exclusive risks, but also multiple linked and correlated risks.
Gold and silver price volatility can result in material and The Group monitors gold and silver prices on an ongoing basis.
to the long-term sustainability and 1 adverse movement in the Groups operating results, Market risk revenues and cash ows.
The Group has decided not to hedge gold prices in order to success of the Company.
We believe Risk matrices are used to record, prioritise and track each risk maximise the benets from the positive price trends.
In order through the risk management process.
These are regularly Movement in gold equivalent price for all metals produced to manage the risk of potential decline in the metal prices, that delivery of sustainable value reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee.
of 10% will cause EBITDA to increase decrease by the Group uses price conservative estimates for budgeting approximately 25% in accordance with Group budgeted purposes usually below spot prices by 10-20% and actively to our stakeholders should be based gures for 2013. manages cut-off grades and medium-term mine planning in Risk assessment response to changes in metal prices on effective risk identication and Once identied, potential risk factors are assessed to consider the impact consequences the event or events may have on The risk of failure to meet the planned production Annual, quarterly and monthly production budgeting and an appropriate response to each risk.
2 achieving objectives and the likelihood probability of the event programme.
subsequent monthly control against budget is designed to Production risks mitigate the risk.
The effectiveness and efficiency of the see table on top of page 77.
Together these create a risk prole.
Risk management process Failure to meet production targets may adversely affect production process is ensured by the Groups engineering Polymetals risk management process is designed to minimise operating performance and financial results of the Group.
Risk response the potential threats to achieving our strategic objectives.
When the appropriate ranking has been identied, a response The risk of lower than expected metal grade or dilution An approved production programme includes increased The process incorporates the following stages: 2.1 is caused by complex mining and geological conditions, volume of operational prospecting works, such as in-ll to each risk is formulated and implemented.
Management Q identication and documentation of risks: Production risk mainly at underground mines.
drilling and grade control sampling.
assesses the effects of a risks likelihood and impact, as well low grade potential Q assessment, qualication and quantication of each risk: as costs and benets.
A response is then evaluated, that brings dilution of ore Q development and implementation of risk mitigation the risk within acceptable tolerance levels.
control strategies: The Company operates in remote locations that require To mitigate the logistics risk the Group invests considerable Q 2.2 monitoring, reporting and reviewing risks: and Monitoring and reporting complex and significant transportation of ore and gold amounts into construction and maintenance of permanent Production risk silver concentrates, most of which is conducted by third and temporary winter roads at exploration and production Ongoing monitoring processes are embedded in Polymetals Q input of effective internal control procedures.
ore and concentrate party contractors.
Production targets may not be reached sites.
The Group exercises effective control over the whole business operations.
These track the effective application of shipping if any element of the logistics chain is disrupted.
In 2012, logistics chain, including selection and operation internal control and risk management policies and procedures, The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board sets the agenda some ore losses took place, in transit from remote sites of contractors.
including internal audit and specic management reviews.
for the risk management policies and procedures of the Group Risk matrices are used to re-evaluate and adjust controls in and is responsible for reviewing their effectiveness.
Its duties The Groups production activity depends heavily on the The Group has implemented and constantly improves the supply response to changes in Companys objectives, business and include the review of: 2.3 effectiveness of supply chains.
These might be negatively chain system to closely link the production demand of resources the external environment.
Production risk Q policies and overall process to identify and assess affected by complex logistics to remote locations and delays with inventory levels, optimise the number of order placements supply chain risks in construction and delivery of purchased mining and and ensure the in-time inventory and equipment delivery business risks and manage their impact on the Company Management is responsible for the implementation of effective processing equipment or spare parts.
and the Group: follow-up procedures to ensure appropriate actions occur Q regular assurance reports from management, internal audit, Recoveries at the Groups processing plants may not To mitigate the risk the Group invests considerable amounts in response to changes in risk and control assessments.
2.4 reach planned levels due to complex technological in ore quality assessment procedures and seeks to control external audit and others on matters related to risk and Production risk properties of ore processed.
ore quality by formation of ore stacks with the required control: and low recovery rate characteristics.
Q the timeliness of, and reports on, the effectiveness of corrective action taken by management.
The use of such methods at the Groups production Monitor, report plants in 2012 was deemed effective.
It allows the Company and review risk to reduce this type of risk to medium.
1 Risk identication Identify and An awareness of risk is embedded within the Group and is Failure to meet return required from the major capital The Company implements global best practices in project document risks grounded in our strong ethical values and proactive corporate 4 2.5 expenditure projects, such as building new mines and management.
The Groups engineering team is responsible for Production risk culture.
Our risk management philosophy is driven by the processing facilities or production capacity increase the oversight of capital expenditure projects, including project construction and renovation at existing mines, as a result of failure to meet support, coordination of service organisations, contractors, Companys Board of Directors and runs through all our renovation project delivery timeline and budgets which can adversely constructors and cooperation with regulatory bodies.
management, employee and connected stakeholder affect the Groups financial results, cash ow position activities from developing strategy to day-to-day operations.
significant parts of exploration and development projects are Develop and 2 performed by the Group in-house by Polymetal Engineering, implement Most significant ongoing projects include construction a subsidiary company with significant expertise and track Risk management is one of the key functions of the Audit risk mitigation of Mayskoye concentrator.
record of designing and commissioning mines and and Risk Committee.
Strategic risks are identied by the strategies 3 Assess, quantify processing plants.
and classify Board based on a detailed understanding of the Company, each risk its markets and the legal, social, political, economic, On complex projects, such as construction of the Amursk POX plant, the Group employs world class consultants with technological, environmental and cultural environments recognised international experience.
76 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 77 Business review Business review Effective risk identication and management continued Residual risk level Residual risk level High Medium Low High Medium Low Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Operating in developing countries, such as Russia and Polymetal has a successful track record of operating in both Operating in Russia and Kazakhstan involves some The Group actively monitors political developments 7 3 Kazakhstan, involves the risk that changes in tax and Russian and Kazakh jurisdictions, having developed its own risk of political instability, which may include changes on an ongoing basis.
Political risk Legal risk other legislation may occur from time to time.
The most expertise in corporate, tax, licensing and other legal areas.
in government, negative policy shifts and civil unrest.
sensitive areas are regulation of foreign investments, These may have an adverse effect on the Groups We aim to maintain open working relationships with local private property, environmental protection and taxation.
The Groups financial and legal teams monitor current market value and operating environment.
authorities in the countries where we operate.
legislation and proposed changes and incorporate these In recent years, however, the governments of both into the practice.
Currency risk arises as the Groups revenue is linked to Natural hedging is used to reduce the risk exposure: Russia and Kazakhstan have become more consistent 8 London Bullion Market Association LBMA gold and silver revenue is matched with US Dollar denominated debt.
regarding the introduction of new regulations and taxes, Corporate and operating management teams are responsible Currency risk xings and denominated in US Dollars.
The expenses are demonstrating awareness of investment climate issues.
for meeting the legal requirements in their operating activities.
mostly incurred and denominated in Russian Roubles.
Flexible budgeting is used to monitor the effect of exchange However, in the application of existing legislation requiring Head ofce and on-site legal teams guarantee appropriate rate uctuations on the Groups financial results.
interpretation, courts often uphold the more assertive controls over compliance issues.
position of the tax authorities, which does not always Failure to retain key employees or to recruit new staff A working conditions improvement programme is in place.
coincide with the Companys position.
The Group takes into account the results of tax audits and 9 mainly at the Groups mining and processing facilities court rulings when interpreting taxation rules and determining Human resources may lead to increased staff costs, interruptions to existing Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate future tax positions.
operations and delay in new projects.
Due to frequent changes in tax legislation in Russia and The Companys policy is to comply fully with the requirements 4 Lack of skilled and knowledgeable staff at remote There is an increased focus on health and safety Kazakhstan, lack of established practices in tax law of the applicable tax laws, providing adequate controls over Taxation risk locations may occur due to extreme weather conditions.
refer to page 84 of this report and there is active promotion means that additional costs such as taxes or penalties tax accounting and tax reporting.
of a positive corporate culture within the Group.
Given the prevailing practice accepted by arbitration tribunals The taxation risk level correlates with the legal and when deciding on certain cases in tax disputes in 2012, as Inability to raise sufficient funds to meet current The Groups Treasury function is responsible for ensuring 10 political risks levels.
well as particular outcomes of tax disputes involving Kazakh operating or ongoing financial needs, to develop new that there are sufficient funds in place, including loan facilities, Liquidity risk and Russian subsidiaries of the Group, the tax risk is projects and growth.
cash ow from operating activities and cash on hand to meet assessed as High.
Long-term credit lines are used to finance new projects and organic growth.
The consolidated financial statements reect provisions booked in connection with the Companys evaluation Exploration and development are capitaland timeThe Group invests considerable amounts in focused of tax risks.
11 intensive activities and may involve a high degree of risk.
exploration projects to obtain sufficient information about the Failure to meet They are, however, necessary for the future growth.
quantity and quality of expected reserves and to estimate To date the Company is not aware of any significant exploration objectives Failure to discover new reserves of sufficient magnitude expected cash ows.
The Groups team of geologists and outstanding tax claims, which could lead to additional taxes could adversely affect the Groups medium and long-term engineering specialists has a track record of successful accrued in the future except for amounts already booked growth prospects.
greeneld and browneld exploration leading to subsequent or disclosed in the Groups financial statements.
development of exploration elds into commercial production.
The Group invests considerable amounts in gold mining Rigorous due diligence procedures are applied to the 5 assets and operations in the Russian Federation and evaluation and execution of all acquisitions to assess the The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as significant Based on analysis of the current economic situation, the 12 Mergers and Kazakhstan.
There is a risk of failure to achieve expected consequences of the acquisition, based on economic, part of the Groups debt portfolio comprises US Dollar Group has decided to accept the risk of oating interest rate Interest rates acquisitions benets from any acquisition in the case of adverse ecological, political and social factors.
rather than hedge it or borrow at xed rates.
However the changes in assumptions or inaccuracy of estimates made, Group does not rule out the possibility of xing the interest or where the information used for decision making was Board and or shareholder approval is required for rate on its borrowings in the future, should assessment of the incomplete or inaccurate.
on going economic situation suggest this may be profitable.
Failure to deliver expected benets from an acquisition The Group is exposed to potentially high rates of ination As part of the budgeting process, the Group estimates 13 can results in adverse financial performance, lower in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan.
Higher rates possible ination levels and incorporates them into Ination risk planned production volumes or problems with of ination may increase future operating costs and have cost planning.
a negative impact on financial results if there is no related depreciation of the local currency against US Dollar Environmental damage may arise from operations, The Group has implemented a number of initiatives to monitor or an increase in LBMA gold and silver xings.
6 including air and water pollution from toxic waste.
and limit the impact of its operations on the environment.
Environmental risks Waste storage and recycling is subject to government These include external expert assessment of pollution regulation.
Potential impacts include fines and penalties, generated and adoption of industry best practice statutory liability for environmental rehabilitation and other on the corporate level policies and procedures.
financial consequences that may be significant.
Refer to pages 80-83 of this report.
78 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 79 Business review Business review Investing in sustainability Sustainability ensuring progress New community buildings at Ozerny, Khabarovsk Territory Environmental focus in the Sverdlovsk Region Urals Our sustainability focus for 2013-2014 Assessing risks Our approach to sustainability Environmental responsibility Our sustainability focus is influenced by those issues that The CEO, Board of Directors and Technical Council, aided by present a risk to our business performance and those that are the Internal Audit Department, identify risks to the business We regard sustainability as an The Group operates complex deemed important by our stakeholders.
While our focus for and associated management operations.
In doing so, they are essential element of our activities.
processes on a large scale in remote 2013-14 is dened, our approach is exible and responsive to informed by interaction with government agencies, the financial changes in the policy and financial environment, developments community, employees, local communities, NGOs, customers It is an investment in society as well locations, some of which are home in best practice regarding employee relations and safety and and suppliers.
Our risk management process is dened and as in our own future.
Thats why new or heightened concerns for communities that influence monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
we rmly believe that anchoring create waste and emissions, including Stakeholder engagement Through our risk management and stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders help to define sustainability priorities and sustainability as part of our business toxic substances, therefore we operate provide a vital check on how we are performing.
We are programmes we have identied five key sustainability priorities, strategy will lead to economic, a management system to reduce the which are material for the business: therefore open, honest and clear in the way we communicate through many channels, including corporate reporting, Q to maintain positive working relationships with local environmental and social progress.
associated impacts while complying Company news, briengs, hotlines and digital technology.
government, NGOs and communities by enhancing our partnership agreements and increasing the effectiveness with national and international Sustainability is the ultimate responsibility of our Group of our investments: We have identied five main stakeholder groups: CEO, Vitaly Nesis.
To help him in this, a Technical Council Government regulations.
Q to attract and retain high quality people and ensure and is convened monthly to monitor, among other issues, Shareholders and investors improve the quality and terms of their employment: performance against our sustainability priorities and We operate a Group-wide environmental management They are interested in governance, strategy and sustainable implementation of associated policies across all of the Q to further improve our health and safety systems through system that is planned and co-ordinated by our Deputy Chief financial returns.
more sophisticated visualisation, risk management and operating companies.
Our heads of department report Operating officer and Director for Environment, Health and more rigorous monitoring, as well as to enrol it to our wide into the Council, covering employees, community outreach, Safety from our headquarters in St. Petersburg.
The system Employees supplier network: health and safety and environmental management.
is based on international best practice, applies across all They are interested in careers, benets, health and safety, Q gaining third party certication for our environmental Group businesses and complies with relevant Russian and corporate reputation and clear lines of communication.
The UN Global Compact management system and embedding the system into Kazakh legislation.
One of our priorities for 2012 was to production operations: and The overall sustainability strategy is designed to meet the prepare for independent certication to ISO 14001.
This Partners and suppliers requirements of the UN Global Compact.
This voluntary Q to enhance the rigour and transparency in our certication was granted in March 2013, after an external audit They are interested in fair dealing, openness and transparency.
international standard commits afliated companies communications with suppliers, customers and partners.
by Bureau Veritas, an independent environmental assurance to comply with ten principles in the areas of human rights, rm.
The environmental management system is also subject Government labour, environment and anti-corruption.
Polymetal became to regular internal review.
They are interested in compliance, transparency and a signatory in 2009 and is an active member of the economic development.
UN Global Compact Network Russia.
The core of the system is an environmental policy, which is available at www.
This focuses Communities and NGOs The UN Global Compact and our corporate values define on the use of best practice, continuous improvement, risk They are interested in directing investments, openness the focus for more detailed policies and associated reduction, compliance and issues management.
There is a and transparency, economic opportunity and long-term management systems, all of which are dened at Group level strong focus on incident and emergency control, use of the relationships.
and implemented through our head ofce and the subsidiary most environmentally friendly materials and resource efficiency.
Ongoing monitoring and regular audit ensures For more details on our sustainability performance, including that performance is measured against the relevant regulatory Each of our subsidiary companies has its own environmental compliance with GRI recommendations and meeting level B and Company internal requirements.
team which runs and monitors the system and provides of reporting, please refer to our Sustainability Report 2012. monthly performance reports to the Group.
Air quality, surface water and ground water samples collected through the system are analysed at laboratories certied to international standards.
Our in-house engineering operation, Polymetal Engineering, employs more than 100 specialists in the design and construction of mines and processing facilities.
All ecological aspects are taken into account at the stage when new facilities are being designed.
80 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 81 Business review Business review Maintaining high standards Sustainability ensuring progress continued Surveying activity in the Chukotka Autonomous Territory Tailing storage at Mayskoye Auditing and compliance Future plans Our performance Regular audit and monitoring activities are built into the Our action plan for 2013-15, focuses on continuous management system and comply with the requirements of improvement to our environmental management systems, GHG emission The use of diesel generators to power our plants, natural relevant Russian and Kazakh legislation.
External audits are including improving performance against the most significant 2.0 1.9 CO equivalent tonnes gas and coal for heating and diesel fuel for vehicles 1.8 2 undertaken by state supervisory authorities such as the environmental impacts at each site and embedding this into per 10Kt of ore mined accounts for our main GHG emissions.
During 2012 Russian Federal Service for Supervision of Natural standard operating procedures.
we increased our diesel generation capacity, however, Resource Usage.
our ability to use this energy more efficiently saw Maintaining and managing biodiversity an incremental reduction in GHG emission intensity.
Employee environmental training In accordance with the Federal Law of the Russian Federation 2010 2011 2012 Our Human Resources department annually reviews we do not operate in or near Special Protected Areas, nor environmental training opportunities at national and those that are designated of natural, historical or cultural value All air emissions Stripping, mined waste storage, ore processing and 6.2 international level.
An in-house training programme also by IMN.
Prior to operating on any site we are required to tonnes per 10Kt energy use generate air emissions including carbon 4.7 4.6 supplements ongoing professional development with site undertake comprehensive surveys and impact assessments.
of ore mined dioxide and oxides of nitrogen and sulphur.
visits and attendance at conferences.
Each year, our Of the 11 mineral elds that we are currently developing, seven environmental managers attend the All-Russian Industrial are situated in areas where rare, endemic and vanishing ora Ecologists Seminar for an update on environmental legislation.
In all seven, as well as the remaining four 2010 2011 2012 Specic courses attended by environmental specialists sites, we operate a system designed to protect ora and fauna.
include those covering environmental management systems, This involves baseline monitoring of the pre-development state Waste We operate against a set of procedures that are hazardous waste, land reclamation, water quality assessment and the creation of protection and buffer zones, away from key 6,754 6,581 tonnes per tonne designed to minimise the amount of waste, maximise 5,985 and environmental security.
extraction, transport and construction activity.
of ore mined the volumes recycled and minimise the potential impacts on people and the environment.
The rise has been Investment in environmental protection driven by an increase activity at some of our new Our overall investment in environmental management and operations, combined with significant growth in monitoring has increased from US$5.6 million in 2011 to underground development.
2010 2011 2012 US$7.8 million in 2012, reecting growth in the scope and intensity of external monitoring and expenditure on equipment, Discharges to The reduction in discharge intensity reects the work 6.1 people and training.
In 2012, 48% of this investment went into surface water done to enhance the efficiency of water use and 4.8 protection of water resources, 33% into land reclamation and thousand cubic increase recycling.
3.3 19% into reductions in atmospheric emissions.
metres per 10Kt of ore mined Regulatory authorities specify that we make quarterly payments in line with the intensity of monitoring and auditing 2010 2011 2012 required.
In 2012 these payments amounted to US$2.7 million Energy use Group companies operate in remote areas, subject compared to US$2.3 million in 2011, reecting continued 66.2 gigajoule per 10Kt to extremes of weather and far from centralised power 58.0 expansion of our production capacity.
They must generate their own sources of electricity and heat, which currently necessitates significant use of diesel generators.
Costs, environmental impacts and alternatives are constantly reviewed.
2010 2011 2012 82 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 83 Business review Business review Focusing on a safe working environment Sustainability ensuring progress continued Management of blasting operations at Khakanja Personnel discussing operations at Varvara A key corporate KPI is the ongoing reduction of the Lost Time As at 31 December 2012, we employed 9,237 people across Health and safety Employees Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR.
This has reduced from 0.63 the Group, with 7,862 in production, 554 in exploration and 821 in 2011 to 0.59 in 2012, following a major improvement from in research, development, design, logistics and management.
A safe and healthy working Our employees are contributors to 1.9 in 2010.
We have also experienced our second consecutive environment is a fundamental right and beneciaries of our commercial Most of those working in extraction and exploration work on year with zero fatalities, which is a tangible and meaningful outcome from the measures taken to improve safety systems a shift basis, due to the demanding nature of the work and the for all employees and a measure success.
They expect a high quality and risk management.
remote locations of many sites.
On average, shift workers of management effectiveness.
working environment, direction account for 60% of the headcount.
The growth in employee In 2012 we initiated daily risk assessments DRAs, introduced numbers between 2011 and 2012 is largely accounted for and a career pathway.
In return Polymetals approach to Health and Safety is set by its a 5S programme at all of our processing plants and transport by the development of the Amursk and Omolon hubs.
employee protection and workplace safety management depots, started to integrate contractors into the health and we expect a clear commitment system.
This is designed to detect, assess and manage safety system and established ongoing monitoring of risk.
More than 60% of all employees work in Magadan and to our corporate goals.
production risks: ensure employee health and workplace Khabarovsk regions in the hubs at Omolon, Dukat and safety and define the safe use of buildings, other structures Health and safety performance Amursk, as well as Khakanja and Albazino.
As a key stakeholder group our employees expect a certain and all equipment.
The system complies with ILO-OSH 2001, 2012 2011 2010 standard of behaviour from the Company and in turn we OHSAS 18001 and GOST R 12.0.
Accidents 11 11 24 Headcount distribution by regions of operations % provide a Code of Conduct to which they commit to adhere.
Incidents 0 2 The Code of Conduct is supported by specic policies on In 2012, health and safety activity focused on: 35 5 recruitment and equality, professional development, appraisal, Occurrences 19 14 14 Q ongoing implementation, operation and renement Q Magadan Region 8 training, resources and skills, organisational design, motivation Injury frequency coefcient 1.2 1.3 3.5 Q Khabarovsk Region of the system: and reward and productivity.
The Code also summarises Q Chukotka Autonomous Territory Injury gravity coefcient 36 61 75 Q reducing workplace injuries: our position on harassment and bullying, drugs, conicts of Q Sverdlovsk Region Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR 0.6 0.6 1.9 11 Q enhancing the culture of safety within every operation: Q Kazakhstan interest, bribery, entertainment gifts, government relations, Q St. Petersburg and Karelia Fatal injury frequency rate FIFR 0 00.5 Q ensuring that the latest safety techniques and equipment anti-trust and anti-competition laws, community relations, are applied: Contractor organisations insider dealing, data protection, transparency disclosure and 9 Q Accidents 2 50 environmental protection.
32 Occurrences 13 9 10 We operate 102 production sites and processes, each with Employment policies and prole In line with the UN Global Compact principles, our main its own inherent risks, including open and underground mines, Work-related illness geological exploration sites, ore processing, explosive depots, employment objectives are: Zero cases of production-related illness were recorded in 2012. as well as transportation of people, equipment, waste and Each employee receives, as a minimum, an annual health Q to build a team that is motivated to achieve business In 2012, women occupied 23% of our management roles, ore. Every employee receives illustrated guides, backed check from one of our medical professionals.
In some cases, performance targets: compared to 19% in 2011.
We have also made significant up by regular briengs and formal training sessions, as well as these checks identify the need for specic treatment, perhaps Q efforts to work with local universities to provide internships and to create working conditions and a system of incentives the provision of necessary equipment and work wear.
This is involving time away from the workplace in one of our that improves safety: a pathway for graduates and young specialists into the backed up by ongoing internal audits that identify areas of poor health centres.
In 2012, we employed 260 people under this Q to supply Company operation projects with appropriately and positive practice that maintain the integrity of the system.
scheme, up from 190 in 2011. skilled personnel: and Focus for 2013-15 Q to operate a continuous employee skills improvement Workplace accidents Our health and safety focus for 2013-2015 is on enhancing our Competitive salaries and benets programme.
In 2012, there were 11 workplace accidents across the Group, capabilities in training, visualisation and monitoring, as well as Our salary levels comply with all legal requirements in Russia none of which were fatal, one of which was serious and ten of rolling out the system to our supplier and contractor network.
and Kazakhstan and are highly competitive, exceeding the Human resources policies are co-ordinated by our Group Head which were minor.
Of this total, 62% of the accidents involved average across each of our operating regions and the of Human Resources from our headquarters in St. Petersburg.
being struck by an object, 18% involved falling from height, Russian and Kazakh mining sectors.
These are implemented by the Managing Directors of our 9% falling while walking and 11% were burns related.
While the operating companies, working through their human total number of non-fatal accidents in 2012 was the same as in resources teams.
2011, there was only one serious accident, compared with two the previous year the remainder being classied as minor.
Our target is to get the accident rate as close to zero as possible, therefore we will continue to improve our health and safety systems to prevent incidents.
84 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 85 Business review Business review Committed to community involvement Sustainability ensuring progress continued A folk festival for the Indigenous Minorities of the North The Panthers junior ice hockey team in action Skills development and training The principles that we adhere to when engaging with local Community engagement Community All Polymetal employees have access to a comprehensive communities and indigenous peoples in these locations are: In 2011-12, we organised 30 meetings with local communities training programme, covering general aspects of our and IMN groups, eight round table discussions and Our aim is to operate with the tacit Q to be open to ideas and comments from those living and operations and specic technical curricula.
This is delivered consultations with the representatives of local ecological and working close to our operations: support of our neighbours in the form as part of an appraisal system that measures employee social welfare groups and organised six sites visits for nature Q to be transparent in our dealings with those living and development and maps out career pathways.
working close to our operations providing timely, relevant of local communities and indigenous employees join the Company, they undergo an initial appraisal, and accurate information on the progress of corporate and as part of which a detailed training plan is drawn up peoples.
Our relationship with these Feedback obtained from these meetings, informal contact community investment projects: and agreed.
and ongoing evaluation of community investment work was Q to take a long-term view of interaction and investment and communities has many facets, as an overwhelmingly positive.
While this is a pleasing outcome, we put in place systems for identifying investment priorities Over 2012 we invested US$1.1 million 2011: US$0.9 million are conscious of our long-term commitments to the economic, employer, a user of services, a user and monitoring progress: in professional training across all disciplines.
In 2012, this social and environmental wellbeing of the people and places Q to identify and act on the most significant issues for local of resources, producer of waste meant that 2,096 employees had some form of additional associated with our operations.
communities and indigenous peoples entailing open and professional development training.
In 2012, the average regular dialogue: and materials and emissions and as an number of hours of training was the same as for 2011: In line with our own codes and policies, we have six Q to provide real and tangible benets to local communities 41 hours per person for managers and 42 hours per person agreements in place with IMN communities in our Russian investor in local infrastructure and and indigenous peoples.
Between 2011 and 2012 the average hours Far East operations.
These agreements are drawn up in the social fabric.
We therefore offer of training for all other employees increased from 47 to 90, consultation with IMN and local authority representatives and Investing in communities reecting the work done to enhance our occupational focus on support for traditional reindeer breeding activity, multiple contact points, both formal Our community investment priorities have been determined health and safety system.
educational and cultural programmes designed to celebrate through feedback from our employees and our experience and informal, such that needs are and preserve language and traditions, provision of fuel, food, of working with communities and indigenous peoples over Employee relations vehicles and building materials, maintaining and restoring addressed and the benets of the many years.
At least once a year, we evaluate local community We support our employees right to freedom of association festival and holiday traditions, learning about local ecosystems, requirements through public meetings, questionnaires, and their desire to enter into collective agreements.
In 2012, exchanging knowledge on environmental protection and relationships are maximised.
surveys and one to one dialogue.
This allows us to identify 7,526 employees or 81% of the total workforce were facilitating exchanges between others in the local area and key investment targets and assess the impact of existing participating in collective agreements at our eight main IMN representatives.
We recognise that our business cannot operate without formal investments.
In the main, these investments focus on the operating sites in Russia and Kazakhstan.
Some of the and informal licence to operate from local authorities and their following activities and groups: agreements expire and will be renegotiated in 2013, while Community benefit associated communities.
In our areas of operation we are Q Education and healthcare most will run to mid late 2015.
At each of these sites, at least Over and above our tax commitments and employment a significant employer and creator of infrastructure that one employee with a maximum of nine sits on a Labour Q Infrastructure commitments, we maintain and enhance local infrastructure impacts upon adjacent communities and indigenous peoples.
Relations Commission LRC, a vehicle for discussing workand services, maintain and grow the working population, Consequently we have formalised our approach to and Q Sports facilities and healthy lifestyle initiatives related queries and concerns.
In tandem with the LRC, six increase employment opportunities, provided training and attitude towards local and indigenous peoples in our Code Q Cultural and creative development with indigenous peoples of the sites hosted Workers Councils, which act as a further education for local people and operate a long-term programme of Corporate Governance and Policy on Social Investments Q Indigenous Minorities of the North IMN.
voice for employees in that operation.
On the two sites that of community investment.
As an average, the proportion of that are informed by the UN Global Compact and the UN do not, those contributing to the LRC act as the conduit for employees drawn from the local population, across all of our Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
Compliance These investments totalled US$6 million in 2012, more than views from the workforce.
sites, is about 90% of the total workforce.
In addition, at the with the Code is monitored by the Technical Committee 80% of which was directed towards sports, education and end of 2012, we also employed more than 80 people from and implemented through our Group companies by their healthcare projects.
indigenous minorities living and working adjacent to our respective management teams.
Social investments in 2012 % Our operations and hence the regional and local populations with which we interact are numerous and widespread, 5 42 including Russias Far East Omsukchan, Srednekansk and Q Sports 6 Severo-Evensk districts in Magadan Region, Okhotsk, Amursk, Q Education 6 Ayano-Maysk and Polina Osipenko, as well as the town of Q Health Amursk in Khabarovsk Territory : Northern Urals the towns Q Infrastructure of Krasnoturinsk, Karpinsk, Degtyarsk and Sukhoi Log and Q Cultural and creative potential Q IMN Vorontsovka village : Chaun district in Chukotka Autonomous Territory and Taranovka district in Kazakhstan.
15 26 86 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 87 Governance Governance Board of Directors Chairman Executive Director Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director at the Okhotsk Mining and Exploration 07 Jonathan Best 01 02 03 Senior management Company, and in the preceding two years Independent non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee he was a mining engineer in the Production Vitaly Savchenko and Technical Department of JSC Polymetal.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Chief Operating officer He graduated with honours from the Mining Mr Best was an independent director of JSC Department of the St. Petersburg State Polymetals Board since December 2006.
Mr Savchenko was appointed COO of Mining Institute, majoring in Open-pit Mining.
JSC Polymetal in 2009 and elected to the He has more than 30 years experience in the management board in September 2011. mining industry.
In 2006 he served as the interim CEO of Trans-Siberian Gold.
Prior to From 2007 to 2009 he was Director of the Valery Tsyplakov Production Department, having held senior that he was CFO and an Executive Director Managing Director, JSC Polymetal 04 05 06 of AngloGold Ashanti, where he was involved production, technical and mining positions Engineering in the companys formation and its listing in since 2004.
From 1994 to 2003 he worked Mr Tsyplakov was appointed Managing at Priargunskoye Mining and Chemical New York.
He is currently a non-executive Director, Polymetal Engineering in 2004.
Director of AngloGold Ashanti Holdings plc Company, latterly as a chief engineer.
From 2000 to 2004 he held senior roles in the and a member of its Audit Committee.
Mr Savchenko graduated from the Kyrgyz Production and Technology and Technological Mining Institute in 1994 with a degree in He is Chairman of Sentula Mining and Bauba Research Departments, subsequently Platinum, where he serves on the nomination underground mineral mining engineering and becoming Deputy General Director for is a recipient of a third-category Miners Glory and remuneration committees, and of Mineral Resources, Design and Technology.
He has completed Stage 1 of the MBA GoldStone Resources.
Mr Best is Chairman Previously he served as Department Head of the Audit Committees of Metair Investments course at the UKs Open University Business at the Soviet Union Research Institute of School and is currently undertaking Stage 2.
He is an associate Aeronautical Automation and prior to this of the Chartered Institute of Management at Orhus Universitys Physics Institute Accountants, an associate of the Chartered Sergey Cherkashin Denmark.
He was also a Research Fellow Institute of Secretaries and Administrators, in the Plasma Physics Department of the Chief Financial officer and holds an MBA from the University of the Moscow Physics and Engineering Institute, Mr Cherkashin was appointed CFO of JSC Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.
from where he graduated in Experimental Polymetal in 2005 having previously held Nuclear Physics.
He also holds a PhD in Skills: Mining, finance and business strategy senior management positions in the food Physics and Mathematics.
Mr Tsyplakov processing and machine building industries.
is a Professional Member of the Institute He was CFO of the Timashevsk Dairy Plant, 08 Russell Skirrow of Materials, Minerals & Mining London.
Sales Director of the Ulyanovsk Automotive 01 Bobby Godsell 02 Vitaly Nesis 03 Konstantin Yanakov Independent non-executive Director Plant and Deputy CEO of Development at Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive officer Non-executive Director Member of the Audit and Risk Committee the Volgograd Dairy Plant, having previously Chairman of the Nomination Committee Pavel Danilin Mr Nesis was JSC Polymetals Chief Mr Yanakov has been a member of the Board Dr Skirrow was an Independent Director of been a consultant for AT Kearney in Moscow.
Deputy CEO, Strategic Development Mr Godsell has over 30 years experience Executive from 2003, becoming a member of since 2011, having served on JSC Polymetals JSC Polymetals board since September Mr Cherkashin graduated from the Moscow in the international mining sector and brings its Board in June 2004.
Between 2002 and Board of Directors since September 2008 and Mr Danilin was appointed Deputy CEO 2008.
Dr Skirrow previously spent ten years at Institute of Physics and Technology in Applied for Strategic Development in 2009, having valuable industry and leadership insight 2003, he was CEO of Vostsibugol and in 2000 as a member of the Audit Committee until Merrill Lynch as Head of Global Metals, Mining Mathematics, and has completed a one-year to the Board.
He is Chairman of Business he was Strategic Development Director at the 2011.
He is currently Chief Financial officer previously been Director of Corporate Finance & Steel Research and subsequently as Global MBA programme at the University of Hartford.
Leadership South, a member of the South Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant.
From 2001 to of ICT Group, and prior to joining ICT he held and Investor Relations.
From 2003 to 2005 Chairman of the Metals Mining team.
He is African National Planning Commission and 2002 he headed the Investment Planning various positions at MDM Bank and was CFO Chairman of Dampier Gold, and has 12 years he was Head of Corporate Finance, and co-Chairman of the South African Millennium Department at SUAL-Holding.
From 1999 to of JSC Polymetal until 2004.
Mr Yanakov Sergey Trushin between 2002 and 2003 he worked at experience in the international mining industry Labour Council.
He is also non-executive 2000 he worked for McKinsey in Moscow, is also a board member at Piraeus Bank.
Deputy CEO, Mineral Resources CJSC ICT in the same capacity.
From 1998 having worked with companies such as Gold director of the South African Industrial and from 1997 to 1999 he was an analyst He graduated from the Government of to 2001 he was Deputy Head of the currency Fields South Africa and Western Mining Mr Trushin was appointed Deputy CEO, Development Corporation.
His previous roles at Merrill Lynch in New York.
He graduated Russias Finance Academy with a degree in department and Head of the financial Corporation in Australia and the US.
He is a Mineral Resources in 2010.
From 2008 resources department at the Kaliningrad have included President of the South African from Yale University in 1997 with a BA Global Economics and received a PhD in member of the Institute of Materials, Minerals to 2010 he was Chief Geologist at the Chamber of Mines and Chairman of Eskom, in Economics.
Economics from the Russian State University branch of Bank Petrocommerce.
Mr Danilin & Mining with Chartered Engineer status, and Khabarovsk Exploration Company and Chief Executive of AngloGold Ashanti, as of Management.
In 2007, Mr Yanakov received graduated in 1998 from Kaliningrad State a Fellow of the Financial Services Institute between 2006 and 2008 he was Chief Skills: Economics and mining Technical University in Economics and a director of African Barrick Gold and Chair an MBA from the London Business School.
He has a BSc in Geology from Geologist at Albazino Resources, where of the Board of Optimum Coal Holdings, Management.
He received an MBA in 2007 Durham University and a PhD from the Royal he had held various positions since Skills: Finance acquired by Glencore plc.
He has a BA from from the University of California at Berkeley, School of Mines, Imperial College London.
In 1997, he was a geologist with Haas School of Business.
the University of Natal and an MA from the Dalnevostochnie Resources and in the Skills: Mining University of Cape Town.
preceding six years he was a geologist with the Production Geological Association Igor Kapshuk Skills: International mining sector 09 Leonard Homenuik Dalgeology and the Nizhne-Amursk Chief Legal officer Independent non-executive Director exploration expedition.
Mr Trushin has Mr Kapshuk was appointed Chief Legal 04 Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 05 Marina Grnberg 06 Charles Balfour Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a degree in Geological Surveying and officer in 2009, having been head of the legal Member of the Nomination Committee Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent non-executive Director Mining Engineering Exploration from the department since 2005 and Deputy Head Member of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration Novocherkassk State Polytechnic Institute.
Mr Homeniuk was an independent member of Mr Duvieusart is a director of PPF Advisory Ms Grnberg has been a member of the since 2003.
Between 2001 and 2003 he held and Nomination Committees Russia and has been a member of the Board since 2011, formerly serving on the Board of JSC Polymetal since June 2010. various positions including Deputy General Mr Balfour has over 40 years experience From 2004 to 2008 he served as President, supervisory board of PPF since 2010.
JSC Polymetals Board of Directors since Roman Shestakov Counsel, Head of the department for legal CEO and member of the Board of Directors He joined McKinsey in 1992 and was September 2008.
She is also a board in the investment banking industry in the Deputy CEO, Project Development matters and Head of the claims department US, UK, France and Hong Kong working of Centerra Gold.
In 2011 he founded Polygon Managing Partner for Central Europe and member of Waterstones Booksellers, and Construction at the Siberia Energy Coal Company and Gold Inc. and subsequently assumed the role of the CIS from 2005 until the end of 2009.
Hachette-Atticus publishing group, MIG for companies including Dillon Read, Banque Vostsibugol Irkutsk.
From 1999 to 2001 he Mr Shestakov was appointed Deputy CEO for Chair, President and Chief Executive officer.
He Mr Duvieusart graduated from the Catholic Credit, Marenco Swiss Helicopters, SPARParibas, Durlacher and Fleming Family worked as a legal advisor for Pharmasintez, Development and Construction of Polymetal Partners.
Between 1993 and 2004 he was has also held executive positions with Centerra University of Louvain, Belgium with a Retail, MLP and A&NN Capital Management and from 1997 to 1998 he worked at the Management Company in 2009.
From 2007 Gold, Kumtor Gold and Cameco Corporation.
Masters Degree and received an MBA Fund.
She is a President of the Nadezhda an executive of Nasdaq International and Irkutsk Tea-Packing Factory as a legal advisor to 2009 he was a Chief Engineer at Gold of Mr Homeniuk received an MSc from the from the University of Chicago in 1992. charity fund and Managing Director of A&NN served as its Chairman from 2000 until 2004. and acting head of the legal department.
Northern Urals, where he also held a position He has served as a director of Humber Power University of Manitoba and is a member of the Schweiz.
Ms Grnbergs qualications Mr Kapshuk graduated from the Law School of a pit superintendent from 2006.
During Skills: Business strategy Ontario Society of Professional Engineers, the include degrees in Law from Moscow State and is currently a director of Humber Energy of Irkutsk State University in 1995.
2004-2005 he was a mine superintendent Law Academy and in Applied Mathematics and a trustee of the Bawdsey Estates.
Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Mr Balfour was educated at Eton and the and the Prospectors and Developers from Moscow State University.
He is an Honorary Sorbonne in Paris.
Skills: Law Professor at the Kyrgyz Mining Institute.
Skills: Finance Skills: Mining and engineering 88 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 89 Governance Governance Corporate Governance Dear Shareholders Statement of compliance with UK Corporate The role of independent Directors on the Board is: to challenge Governance Code the strategy and scrutinise the performance of management in Governance is at the heart of our culture, providing a The Directors are committed to maintaining high standards of meeting agreed goals and objectives: to monitor performance framework within which we can maintain and develop the corporate governance.
As a premium listed company, during of the Company: to review the integrity of financial information values and practices that support our corporate objectives, the year ended 31 December 2012 Polymetal International was and to review the appropriateness of the Companys internal and which ensure that Polymetal reects high levels of ethical required to comply with the UK Code of Corporate Governance controls and risk management systems.
the UK Code published in June 2010 and available at the UK Financial Reporting Councils website or, where the provisions Directors interests are disclosed in annual declarations and During our first full year as a premium listed company of the UK Code have not been complied with, to provide the Company Secretary is notied promptly of any changes on the London Stock Exchange we have worked hard to appropriate explanations.
In 2012, the Company has complied to those interests.
Before each Board meeting, Directors ensure that we follow both the letter and the spirit of the with the provisions of the UK Code, except for the following: reconrm their independence and all Directors disclose UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have a disciplined whether they hold any interests in any matters to be reviewed Q Schedule A of the UK Code recommends share options and approach characterised by a system of regular review and at the Board meeting.
awards should not vest in less than three years.
The existing assessment, and a programme of continuous improvement.
option scheme will become fully compliant with Schedule A This approach is designed to achieve a balance between The significant shareholders of the Company are represented from June 2013. encouraging positive and dynamic commercial values, and on the Board by Mr Yanakov who is a representative of applying the appropriate discipline and regulatory guidance Powerboom Investments Limited : Ms. Grnberg who is The reason for non-compliance was the existence of share where required.
Such balance ensures that we achieve our a representative of Vitalbond Limited, A&NN and Capital option arrangements prior to admission.
business objectives by operating a rigorous system of internal Management Fund Limited and Mr Duvieusart who is a control, supported by culture of control and accountability representative of PPF Group BV.
Mr Nesis is the brother of the The UK Code recommends that share options and awards throughout the organisation.
beneficial owner of Powerboom Investments Limited.
Save for should not vest in fewer than three years.
In November 2010, the potential conicts inherent in these relationships, there are prior to the UK Code becoming applicable to the Company, In 2012, we have been particularly focused on the Codes no potential conicts of interest between the duties owed by share-based payment awards were granted to certain emphasis on the analysis of alignment of remuneration with the Directors or senior management to the Company and their employees that could, subject to the meeting of specic shareholder interests, the balance and effectiveness of the private interests or other duties.
performance criteria, vest in June 2013 a period of two years, Board and its composition, and the active stewardship of risk 7 months.
This vesting period was considered appropriate as management.
The Board has determined Charles Balfour, Jonathan Best, it aligned employee incentives with the Companys objectives.
Russell Skirrow and Leonard Homenuik to be independent In June 2013 option holders will either exercise their options With the exception of certain legacy share option scheme non-executive directors.
Bobby Godsell met the independence or have an opportunity to extend them for a further year at a arrangements which will be subject to changes in June 2013 criteria on appointment.
Jonathan Best has been on the Board higher performance condition level see details on page 109 and which are already addressed by forward-looking changes of the Company since September 2011 and on the Board of below, following which the existing option scheme will become to the remuneration policy, we are complying with the JSC Polymetal since December 2006 and his reappointment fully compliant with Schedule A as no outstanding share provisions of the Code, and will continue to assess and is subject to particularly rigorous review.
The Board believes options and awards granted under it will vest in less than three develop our governance framework as appropriate.
Part that Jonathan continues to display all of the qualities of years from the date of their grant.
of this process encompasses a formal internal evaluation independence pursuant to the criteria set out in the Code.
of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual The Board has already made appropriate amendments members.
While evaluation during the year has confirmed the In 2012 the Company sold 100% of Amikan Holdings Limited, to the Companys remuneration policy so that any future Boards effectiveness, further feedback will form part of which owns the Veduga gold deposit Veduga in the share-based payment award arrangements will comply with ongoing recommendations for its development.
Krasnoyarsk region of the Russian Federation, to Polygon Gold the recommendations of the UK Code.
Refer to the Directors Inc. Polygon.
Mr Homeniuk serves as Polygons Executive Remuneration report on page 105 for more detail.
Polymetal is a unique and strongly focused business.
Polygon operates as a standalone We believe that our robust corporate governance structure company with independent management and Polymetal Role and structure of the Board and effective operation of the Board are already translating into provides certain technical and regulatory assistance to Polygon The Companys Board comprises one executive Director, the delivery of our tactical and strategic targets and shareholder on an ongoing basis.
Polymetal currently holds 42.6% equity non-executive Chairman and seven non-executive Directors.
value creation: delivery on projects and production targets, and ownership in Polygon and one of the four board seats and Excluding the Chairman, four members of the board are consequently our ability to sustain financial performance and therefore has significant influence, but does not have control independent non-executive Directors.
Refer to the schedule dividend ow to shareholders.
All these solid achievements are over its activities.
The Board continues to consider Mr below for the structure of the Board and its Committees, already meaningfully differentiating Polymetal from many Homeniuk to be an independent non-executive Director.
showing the status of each Director.
of our peers in the sector.
The Board concluded that the relationship between Polymetal and Polygon is not material, given the carrying value of Veduga The independent non-executive Directors are those determined We are on track with our strategy, both operationally and which is US$19.3 million and represents approximately 0.5% by the Board to be independent in character and judgement nancially.
Going forward, we are committed to ensuring that of the Groups total assets as at 31 December 2012. and to be free from relationships or circumstances, which may the Company is run in the best interests of all its stakeholders affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
and that the Board is accountable for responsible stewardship, disciplined performance and sustainable value delivery.
Bobby Godsell Chairman 90 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 91
