Governance Governance Directors report continued Capital structure Pursuant to the Companys Articles, Directors have the power Dividends The structure of the Companys share capital is detailed in to allot Equity Securities as dened in the Articles.
At the The Groups net profit for the year ended 31 December Note 31 to the financial statements.
2012 attributable to equity holders of the Company was Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2012 the power to allot Equity Securities was renewed up to an US$394 million 2011: US$ 290 million.
In December 2012 There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding or on aggregate number of 127,561,927 ordinary shares, provided the Company declared a special dividend of US$ 0.50 per the transfer of shares, which are both regulated by the Articles that the Directors power in respect of such an amount may share which was paid in January 2013.
The Directors have of the Company and applicable legislation.
The Directors only be used in connection with a pre-emptive issue as proposed the payment of a final dividend of US$0.31 per share are not aware of any agreements between holders of the dened in the Articles.
The Directors are further empowered 2011: US$ 0.20 per share.
Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the pursuant to Article 12.4 of the Companys Articles to allot transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Annual General Meeting Equity Securities for cash as if Article 13 of the Articles Pre-emptive rights did not apply and for the purposes of The Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the Company There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or paragraph b of Article 12.4 of the Articles, the Non Prewill take place on 12 June 2013 at 11am BST in Le Hocq Suite, terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as emptive Shares as dened in the Articles are an aggregate Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Rue fide LEtau, St Helier, commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and employees number of up to 19,134,289 ordinary shares.
In 2012, the Jersey JE2 3WF, Channel Islands.
A webcast will be available share plans.
None of these is considered to be significant in Company used the above powers to allot 520,422 new for shareholders who will not be able to attend the meeting terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as ordinary shares relating to the Svetlobor acquisition and in person.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any a further 775,000 new ordinary shares in respect of the agreements between the Company and its Directors or Olcha acquisition.
Auditors employees that provide for compensation for loss of ofce Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval or employment, that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Pursuant to Article 57 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, of this Annual Report confirms that: the Company is authorised to make market purchases of Q so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Substantial shareholdings in the Company are disclosed ordinary shares of the Company, provided that: information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and on page 169.
Q the maximum number of ordinary shares to be purchased Q the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have is 38,268,578 ordinary shares: taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware Details of employee option schemes are set out in the Q the minimum price excluding expenses which may of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Remuneration report on pages 104 to 109. be paid for each ordinary share is 1 penny: Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Q the maximum price excluding expenses which may There were no acquisitions of the Companys own shares in Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in be paid for each ordinary share is the higher of: 2012.
At 31 December 2012, the Group and its subsidiaries ofce as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be held no treasury shares 31 December 2011: no shares.
As at a an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The 31 December 2012, the Company had shareholders authority middle market quotations of an ordinary share in the Audit and Risk Committee reviews both the level of the audit to purchase up to 38,268,578 of its own ordinary shares.
Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part of its Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
The Articles of the Company can be altered by a special preceding the day on which the ordinary share is resolution of the Company.
A resolution is a special resolution contracted to be purchased: and On behalf of the Board when it is passed by three-quarters of the members who b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last being entitled to do so vote in person, or by proxy, at a independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest general meeting of the Company.
current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: The Board may appoint a person, who is willing to act to be a Q pursuant to Article 58A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, Director, either to ll a vacancy or as an additional Director and Bobby Godsell the Company may hold as treasury shares any ordinary in either case whether or not for a xed term.
Irrespective of the Chairman shares purchased pursuant to the authority conferred terms of his or her appointment, a Director so appointed shall 24 April 2013 in this Resolution.
hold ofce only until the next following annual general meeting.
If not re-appointed at such annual general meeting, he or she The authorities above shall, unless previously revoked or shall vacate ofce at its conclusion.
varied, expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on the The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director date which is 15 months after the date of this Resolution, being from ofce notwithstanding any provision of the Companys 13 September 2013.
Articles or of any agreement between the Company and such Director, but without prejudice to any claim he or she may have Approval of share issues, consideration for which does not for damages for breach of any such agreement.
No special exceed US$15 million, is delegated to a committee of the CEO, notice needs to be given of any resolution to remove a Director the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and the SID.
and no Director proposed to be removed has any special right If the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and or the to protest against his or her removal.
The Company may, by SID are not available, then any independent non-executive ordinary resolution, appoint another person in place of a Director s may act as their alternates on the Committee.
100 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 101 Governance Governance Remuneration report Companys remuneration policy, which was approved by the Unaudited information Board on 24 April 2013.
As a result, the Company is proposing Remuneration Committee the adoption of a new long-term share plan, the Performance The membership of the Remuneration Committee is shown in the table below.
Share Plan, at the AGM in June 2013.
Under the Plan, awards will only be earned subject to Polymetals TSR being positive Name Role and also outperforming that of the FTSE Gold Mines Index over Leonard Homeniuk Chair a four year period.
The Plans main features are described in Jonathan Best Member more detail on page 105 of this report and in the Notice of the Charles Balfour Member 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Other key changes adopted by the Committee, which are consistent with best practice, All Committee members are independent non-executive Directors.
include the introduction of significant shareholding requirements for the executive team, deferral requirements The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee under its terms of reference are: under the annual bonus plan and clawback provisions for any Q to make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive management: bonus deferred in shares as well as any awards made under Q to determine, within agreed terms of reference, the remuneration of the Chairman and of specic remuneration packages for the Performance Share Plan.
each of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the members of the senior management, including pension rights Our remuneration policy remains a key element in providing and any compensation payments: Message from the Chairman a clear framework to motivate, incentivise and retain our senior Q to formulate suitable performance criteria for the performance-based pay of the executive management: management team.
Our objective is to continue developing Q to review and oversee all aspects of any executive share scheme operated by or to be established by the Company: and of the Remuneration Committee these policies in order to strengthen the link between reward Q to oversee and advise the Board on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company and performance, thus ensuring that our management team is or the Group.
continuously focused on delivering value to our shareholders.
Dear Shareholders The full Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance section on the On behalf of the Committee, I welcome all feedback from Over the past year the Remuneration Committee has made Companys website: www.
shareholders and look forward to receiving your support good progress in ensuring that our remuneration policy at the AGM.
continues to evolve in line with best practice, and that it is The Committee met twice in 2012 and undertook the following key activities: aligned with business strategy and performance while Q Approved the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2011: remaining rmly focused on supporting the creation of Q Reviewed and approved a more detailed remuneration policy of the Company and increased the number of senior executives sustainable longer-term value to shareholders.
whose annual bonus would depend on achieving individual KPIs: Yours sincerely, The Company had a successful year delivering on its tactical Q Appointed  LLP as independent external remuneration consultants to provide a review of the Leonard Homeniuk and strategic objectives, as well as delivering superior Companys senior executive pay and the market practice for long-term incentive schemes.
 LLP Chairman, Remuneration Committee shareholder returns, which were well ahead of our peer group.
is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and incorporates the principles of its Voluntary Code of Practice Our Total Shareholder Return during 2012 was 9% including into its engagement.
No other services were provided by  LLP during 2012: This report sets out the Companys remuneration policy 1.1% of dividends compared against the FTSE Gold Mines Q Analysed the Companys existing remuneration policy and practices and subsequently reviewed comments from shareholder and practice for its Directors and provides details of their Index decreasing by 15.4% over the same period.
Following such discussions in the second part of 2012 and beginning of 2013 the Remuneration Committee further remuneration and share interests for the year ended to that, in January 2013 the Company paid a special dividend reviewed the Companys remuneration policy and practices to ensure that they remain aligned with the objectives of the 31 December 2012.
Although it is not a requirement of of US$0.5 per share.
business and in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice.
As a result, the Committee has proposed the Jersey company law to have the Directors remuneration introduction of a new long-term incentive scheme, the Performance Share Plan, to replace the Long-term Employee Incentive report approved by shareholders, the Board believes that The Committees activities during 2012 included external Programme once it expires.
Further information is provided on page 105. as a Company whose shares are listed on the London Stock benchmarking of pay levels and a review of our system of Q Reviewed proposed changes to the remuneration report regulations and agreed approach to disclosure in future years.
Exchange, it is an element of good corporate governance for it compensation, as well as a detailed analysis of performance to do so.
Accordingly, a resolution to approve the report will be Although these regulations are not expected to formally apply to the Company, the Committee believes that as a FTSE 100 against targets.
The results of this review showed that the total company whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is an element of good corporate governance to voluntarily proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on remuneration package is competitive against our peers and adopt the new disclosure provisions including the binding vote on remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM.
12 June 2013. that the remuneration policy taken as a whole effectively motivates the executive team in its objective of building Further business conducted by the Remuneration Committee was approved by written resolutions on three occasions.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the long-term shareholder value.
No change to the base salary or requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and maximum annual bonus opportunity available to the CEO has During its work in 2012, the Committee was also aided by the Chief Executive officer, and senior finance and human resources Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the been proposed by the Committee as a result of this review.
It also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes The Committee is aware that the legacy option scheme, which The Board considers that the composition and work of the Remuneration Committee complies with the requirements how the Board applied the principles relating to Directors was put in place prior to the Companys IPO, is not in line with of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
typical practice for FTSE-listed companies.
However the scheme will expire in 2013 2014 and the options currently have In line with the Regulations, the report has been split into Executive Director remuneration policy zero intrinsic value.
The Committee has already taken steps to The Companys executive remuneration policy for Directors and senior management is comparable to FTSE 100 and other audited and unaudited sections.
ensure that the remuneration arrangements going forward are international mining companies and is designed to attract and retain high quality executive talent at the top level that will help in line with best practice by adopting relevant changes to the maximise shareholder value.
102 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 103 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued The table below sets out the basis for the remuneration of Mr Nesis, the Chief Executive officer and the only executive Annual bonus Board Director.
Variable remuneration comprises an annual bonus opportunity subject to the achievement of stretching performance criteria.
The CEOs bonus is based on achievement of the following performance metrics: Element Policy and objectives Details KPIs Weight Base salary Q Provides the xed element of the remuneration package Q The Committee reviews base salary annually Production 30% Q Q Competitive base salary to attract and retain high Any increases are determined with reference to Total Cash Cost per ounce of gold equivalent produced 30% calibre executives based on personal prole underlying Company performance and benchmarking and relevant experience against FTSE 100 and global mining peers and also Completion of new projects on time and within budget 30% within the context of salary increases provided to Q Takes into account the overall potential value Health and safety 10% employees throughout the Group of the package Q Q Annual bonus Designed to focus on achieving annual performance Target bonus opportunity 100% of base salary The maximum bonus payable is 150% of base salary and the bonus at target performance is 100% of base salary.
Annual bonus goals, which are based on the Companys KPIs and Q Maximum bonus opportunity 150% of base salary is payable for achieving target performance on a sliding scale.
No bonus is payable unless at least 90% of the annual budget for strategy Q the relevant KPIs has been achieved.
The maximum bonus becomes payable for achieving 110% of the annual budget.
Performance metrics for the CEO for 2012 and Q Maximum and target annual incentives are expressed 2013 include: as a percentage of base salary Currently any bonus earned is paid fully in cash.
Starting from any bonus earned in respect of 2013, the Committee has production Q Currently paid 100% in cash introduced mandatory deferral of 50% of annual bonus into shares, with one third of the shares released each year following total cash costs Q With effect from the 2013 bonus, 50% of annual bonus the year when the respective annual bonus is earned.
completion of new projects on time and within earned will be paid in cash and the remaining 50% budget: and will be compulsorily deferred into shares, released The table below summarises the actual KPIs achieved in 2012: health and safety annually to the employee during the next three years Q KPIs Actual performance in equal instalments Compulsory bonus deferral over three years starting from 2013, with one third released each year Production 1,063 Koz, 31% growth Q Deferred bonus settled in shares to encourage retention Total Cash Cost per ounce of gold equivalent produced US$703 GE oz, 0% increase and alignment with shareholders Completion of new projects on time and within budget Amursk POX and Kubaka Merrill-Crowe plants launched Q Claw-back provisions will apply for the unvested portion Health and safety 0 fatalities, second year in a row Q Q The new Long-Term Provides long-term alignment with shareholders If approved by shareholders at the AGM in June 2013, Incentive Plan interests the plan will replace the legacy long-term employee As a result, the annual bonus receivable by Mr Nesis for 2012 is US$ 542,000, or 118% of base salary.
incentive programme see page 109 Q Aligns long-term incentive provision with UK market practice Q The plan provides for annual rolling awards with a Following a review of the KPIs of the CEO and benchmarking against FTSE and global peers, it has been decided that there will four year vesting period and an additional mandatory Q Stretching performance targets reward participants be no changes in the CEOs annual bonus opportunity and structure of KPIs for 2013. holding period of one year following vesting for delivering positive absolute and superior relative Q TSR performance against global peers over a Performance condition relative TSR measured against The new Long-Term Incentive Programme long-term horizon the constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Index and In April 2013, following a detailed review of market practice and the remuneration packages of the Companys executive absolute TSR of Polymetal share above zero Q management, at the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors proposed to put in place 20% vesting for median performance and 100% for a new long-term incentive programme the Performance Share Plan after the vesting of awards under the current performance in top decile of the FTSE Gold Mines Index Q Long-term Employee Incentive Programme.
150% of base salary policy grant to CEO Q Claw-back provisions will apply for the unvested portion The Board believes that the Performance Share Plan will ensure alignment of the executive teams performance with shareholder Pension and The Company does not fund any pension contributions interests and provide reward for superior long-term performance and the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board other benets or benets except for contributions to mandatory pension also believes that the Plan is in line with and, in some elements beyond UK best practice and fully follows the provisions of the fund of the Russian Federation as required by Russian law UK Corporate Governance Code and other relevant guidelines.
Remuneration policy for other senior executives The remuneration policy described above for the Chief Executive is consistent in structure and key performance indicators with The key terms of the proposed Long-Term Incentive Programme are as follows: the policy of the other members of the Companys executive team and broader management team of the Group.
Design element Description Plan type Performance Share Plan PSP Whilst the value of remuneration will vary throughout the Group depending on the role, criticality to the business and level of Participation Q CEO and three levels below Board 100 to 200 participants at the discretion of the seniority, the remuneration of all senior executives consists of base salary, an annual bonus and participation in the new LTIP.
Remuneration Committee Employees up to three levels below the Board up to 200 employees throughout the Group are expected to participate in the Policy award level The proposed award levels are: LTIP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee following its approval at the AGM in June 2013.
Q CEO: 150% of base salary Chief Executive Remuneration elements Q Executive Committee: 100% of base salary Base salary Q Below Executive Committee: 50-100% of base salary Mr Nesis receives a salary of RUB14,400,000 per annum equivalent to US$463,000 in 2012 under his employment contract Frequency of award Annual award with Polymetal.
Q Performance period and holding period Four year performance period Q Participants will be required to hold any vested shares for a further year Following a review of the total remuneration package of the CEO, the pay and employment conditions of the broader executive team and other employees of the Group, and benchmarking performed against FTSE and global peers, it has been decided that for a second year in a row there will be no increase in the base salary of the CEO for 2013.
104 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 105 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued Design element Description Remuneration policy non-executive Directors The fees of the independent non-executive Directors are set by reference to those paid by other FTSE 100 mining companies.
Q Performance condition Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR against the constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Fees are reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually.
No fees are paid to the non-independent non-executive Directors.
In addition, no part of the award will vest unless Polymetals TSR has increased on an The table below shows the remuneration policy in place for non-executive Directors.
absolute basis Q TSR measured in US Dollars Role Fee Q For the purposes of measuring TSR, a three month averaging period at the start and end of the performance period will be used Non-executive Chairman 250,000 Q Retesting of the performance condition in future years will not be allowed under any circumstances Senior Independent Director No additional fee Q Unvested awards will be subject to a clawback provision Independent non-executive Director basic fee 100,000 Vesting schedule Peers are ranked and Polymetals position determines vesting: Additional fees Q 0% vest below median Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 30,000 Q 20% vests at median Chairmen of other Committees 15,000 Q 100% vests at top decile performance and above Committee membership fee not payable to the Committee Chairmen 10,000 Q Straight-line vesting between these points Board and Committee meeting attendance fee 3,000 per meeting Q 0% vests if absolute TSR is negative, regardless of relative performance Non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive any pension benets or options in the Company.
Dilution Awards will normally be settled by newly issued shares, subject to the following dilution limits: Q The number of shares issued under the discretionary executive schemes cannot exceed 5% Non-executive Directors letters of appointment of the issued share capital of the Company in any ten year rolling period Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but their terms are set out in a letter of appointment.
The appointment of Q The overall number of shares issued under all share plans including any all employee plans each of the non-executive Directors took effect on and from admission until the next AGM of the Company, subject to annual cannot exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the Company in any ten year rolling period re-election.
The Performance Share Plan will be put to a shareholder vote at the AGM in June 2013 and, following approval by shareholders, The appointment of any non-executive Director may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
will be implemented upon vesting of the current Employee Incentive Programme see details on page 109.
The appointment of each non-executive Director may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
Shareholding requirements A non-executive Director is not entitled to receive any compensation on termination of his appointment.
Each non-executive There is an increasing view from shareholders and other commentators that there should be a requirement for significant long-term shareholding by senior executives.
Therefore, the Committee is proposing to implement substantial minimum Director is subject to condentiality restrictions without limitation in time.
Notice period by shareholding requirements for the Chief Executive officer and the executive management team, with the following minimum Date of letter of appointment Company or Director Director levels set: Bobby Godsell 29 September 2011 1 month Q Chief Executive officer 500% of base salary.
Charles Balfour 29 September 2011 1 month Q Chief Financial officer 250% of base salary.
Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 1 month Q Other executives reporting to CEO 100% of base salary.
Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 1 month Marina Grnberg 29 September 2011 1 month These requirements have been set by the Committee at a level that is signicantly above typical market practice for companies of Polymetals size in keeping with the Companys objective to be consistent with best practice and to further strengthen the Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 1 month alignment between executives and shareholders.
The position should be built over four years and can include vested shares Russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 1 month received under short-term and long-term remuneration schemes.
Leonard Homenuik 29 September 2011 1 month Pension and retirement benets The full terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Save for the Groups contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation during the financial year ended ofce in Jersey.
31 December 2012, no amounts were set aside or accrued by the Group to provide pension, retirement or other benets to the Directors and senior management.
Amounts paid to third parties No consideration was paid to or became receivable by third parties for making available the services of any person as a Director Executive Director appointment and service contract of the Company, or while a Director of the Company, as a Director of any of the Companys subsidiary undertakings, or Mr Nesis has entered into an appointment letter with the Company in relation to his appointment as a Director.
This appointment otherwise in connection with the management of the Company or any undertaking during the year ended 31 December 2012. took effect from the date of admission of shares to trading on the LSE on 28 October 2011 and is subject to annual re-election.
Mr Nesis does not receive any fees in respect of his appointment as a Director of Polymetal International plc but is entitled to Total shareholder return reimbursement of his reasonable expenses incurred in relation to the carrying out of his duties as a Director.
Appointment of The total shareholder return graph below represents performance of the Companys shares against the FTSE 100 index and Mr Nesis as a Director may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Mr Nesis can terminate his FTSE Gold Mines Index for the period since the admission of the Companys shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange appointment as a Director on one months notice.
He is not entitled to receive any compensation in respect of his role as Director to 31 December 2012.
The Committee considers that the selected FTSE 100 index and FTSE Gold Mines Index are the most on termination of this appointment.
appropriate benchmarks for the Company as it is a constituent of both of these indexes and its performance is measured externally and internally against them.
On 25 July 2008, JSC Polymetal, a 100% subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Russia, entered into an employment contract with Mr Nesis as its Chief Executive officer.
The contract became effective on 1 September 2008 and was subsequently amended on 5 September 2011.
The contract was entered into for a period of five years and expires on 31 August 2013.
Under the terms of the contract the Chief Executive officer undertakes to perform general management of JSC Polymetal, arrange for its commercial, economic, social and other activities with a view to provide for JSC Polymetals further development.
The employment contract does not contain any specic grounds for early termination.
The contact can be terminated at any time on one months notice by Mr Nesis and with immediate effect by JSC Polymetal in accordance with the Russian labour law.
This could result in compensation of up to a maximum of three average monthly salaries.
106 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 107
