Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Strategy We have made considerable progress in the implementation ofthe strategy and the MRO Profitable MRO business .
Better growth than commodity MRO EDE Focus on global EDE customer segment Growth and margin International Growth and market share opportunity Web Increase business via the web Operational efficiencies and customer benefits Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS together with an increasingly rich offering of engineering Our strategy is driving profitable growth Overall the assumptions which underpin solutions, we have the opportunity to grow our EDE customer Through the implementation of our strategy for profitable our strategy, together with an ongoing base.
EDEs truly appreciate the value of our model and reward growth, Premier Farnell has built on its foundations of us with loyalty and high purchase frequency.
focus on accelerated execution, provide highservice distribution to become a digital enterprise The global EDE market consists of customers involved thatgenerates industry leading returns through the Premier Farnell with resilience and agility.
inthedesign of electronic products and components.
EDEcustomers have similar service requirements wherever As part of our strategic development, we have also Our strategy is focused on targeting the EDE customer they are located around the world: a broad product offering, addressedour global brand, based on the core philosophy segment, the migration of our business online, geographic the latest technology, technical support, accurate design that brand should represent the commitment and promise expansion with particular focus on the developing markets, andlegislative information and reliable and prompt delivery.
ofan organisation as manifest to each stakeholder group.
together with a continuing drive in the profitable segments Asa global organisation, we can leverage our knowledge Premier Farnell is transforming into the global source for ofour historic MRO business.
andinfrastructure to meet those needs.
design engineers in the digital, online world which is why Despite a global recession in calendar 2008 and 2009 along ourrebranding began with the highly successful launch of Increasingly EDEs also want complete engineering solutions with a more recent slowdown last year, we have made theelement14 Community in 2010.
A single global brand available from a single source, online where they can also considerable progress in the implementation of the strategy brings obvious efficiencies to the organisation, but most access the supporting design information and collaborate and the business transformation.
Furthermore, we have importantly itoptimises our ability to acquire customers anddiscuss their work through social media.
We began our communicated both regularly and transparently on our andwin market share on a global basis as a digital enterprise.
journey to meet such a need with the launch of the pioneering strategic and financial progress against key objectives and This year we implemented dual branding for our Americas element14 Community.
This year we took further steps with metrics to both our internal and external stakeholders.
andEuropean business which are now Newark element14 thesolutions based website the Knode and the roll out of nine andFarnell element14 respectively, complementing the Asia vertical market micro-sites.
This convergence of community, The strategy has been regularly reviewed by the Premier Pacific business which is already fully branded element14.
content and commerce to bring complete engineering Farnell Leadership Council PFLC and the Board.
It has Ourinvestment in even greater web capability will continue solutions to market is a trend we expect to increase and is demonstrated resilience and agility, helping to optimise our topower our element14 brand, optimising market impact central to our brand and eCommerce strategies.
growth and make market share gains while enabling us to andshare gain as we adopt it globally.
recover rapidly from the turbulent economic climate.
During We set a goal for this part of our strategy that 50%70% of the global recession two years ago, when adjusted sales Overall the assumptions which underpin our strategy, sales from our electronics distribution would come from EDE declined 9.5%, the Group achieved a resilient return on sales togetherwith an ongoing focus on accelerated execution, customers by the end of our 2013 financial year.
Then, in 2011, sales bounced back quickly to 21.1% provide Premier Farnell with resilience and agility, manifested EDE sales accounted for 52.5% of sales from our electronics with Group adjusted return on sales also increasingly strongly in thebusiness performance over an extended period of distribution businesses.
Increasing the eCommerce penetration, in particular, economic uncertainty.
Focus on the profitable MRO market segments has given the business considerable strength.
The web has Focus on EDE As Premier Farnell has increased the proportion of its business provided us with the chance to reshape the business, enabling Central to the strategy is the Electronic Design Engineering which takes place in the higher growth and higher gross greater cost efficiencies which can help protect profitability EDE sector, an attractive market which offers above average margin EDE segment, it is strategically decreasing the overall when required, information to help capitalise on opportunities gross margins and growth rates through the cycle.
for customers and furthering our strategic goals.
providing an industry leading, high service proposition Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Strategy continued Within the MRO segment itself we place a high focus on We set a goal for this part of the strategy that we will achieve In this part of the strategy we are targeting to exit our financial thetransition in mix towards a higher proportion of business more than 70% of our MDD revenue via eCommerce by the year 2013 with our sales from the developing markets inthe strategic, profitable MRO segments, as we move away end of 2013.
As we exited 2012, 55.3% of MDD sales came accounting for 30% of Group sales.
This year we exited with from the highly competitive, commoditised MRO market.
23.2% of Group sales coming from our developing markets.
The strategy to drive strategic MRO is underpinned by a Internationalising our model Initiatives to drive operational and cash efficiencies segmental approach to focus on high technology segments The worlds developing markets offers some of the most where customers display characteristics similar to EDE significant growth opportunities in the high services The execution of our global strategy has led to significant customers, requiring the latest technology, product information electronics distribution market.
The markets in countries growth in our levels of eCommerce as a proportion of our and reliable and prompt delivery.
This helps us to leverage suchas Greater China, India and Eastern Europe are vast totalsales.
The web has become the transactional channel ourglobal organisation and drive business via the preferred andhighly fragmented.
The expansion of the European Union ofchoice for our customers, as evidenced in the success web channel.
and the highly fragmented nature of these new markets offer ofour digital strategy described on pages 24 to 26.
Through further growth opportunities, while the Chinese market alone the development of the web as a more efficient channel to our We set a goal for this part of our strategy that sales from for small volume electronics is estimated at over 1billion markets, we are able to deliver operational and cash efficiencies.
MROwould be decreased to between 30% to 50% of MDD annually and, with an estimated 300,000 engineers graduating sales by the end of our 2013 financial year.
As we exited Delivering on our cost agenda in China each year, this is set to continue to expand.
theyear, MRO sales accounted for 50.0% of sales from In response to the slowing market conditions at the half year, ourelectronics distribution businesses.
we announced actions to remove 17million of our planned When we began our strategy we made costs in the second half this year.
We have demonstrated Focus on web and eCommerce astrategic decision to enter the developing agility to react to market conditions, overachieving on this This part of our strategy provides design engineers, maintenance commitment.
For the year, we delivered a net year-on-year and repair engineers and purchasing professionals with markets of Greater China, India and decrease in costs of 9.1million 6.3million at constant afastand efficient channel to access the solutions that Eastern Europe.
exchange rates, more than absorbing the cost of inflation.
theyseek anonline place of work that combines access toproducts, information, community, software, services We acted swiftly to address volume related costs to reflect When we began our strategy we made a strategic decision andtechnology solutions.
thesoftening sales environment in the second half of the year, toenter the developing markets of Greater China, India implementing initiatives to remove freight and packaging The web provided Premier Farnell with a platform and media andEastern Europe and more recently we followed this move costsas well as actions to reduce temporary staff headcount.
on which it can differentiate itself through delivering new by expanding our footprint into Thailand, Taiwan and South With staff incentive plans closely aligned to performance, innovations to its industry an example being this years launch Korea.
We have made acquisitions in India and Eastern performance related costs were also lower year-on-year of ratings and reviews on its websites and the introduction Europe to help accelerate our organic growth in these regions toreflect the sales trends of the Group.
The web also offers Premier Farnell a lower and we have 33 local language websites to ensure our virtual cost to serve channel compared with more traditional sales presence is strong in our international territories.
Collectively We have also carefully controlled discretionary spend to channels.
As we transition a greater percentage of our our emerging markets of China, India, Eastern Europe, reflectthe economic environment, such as reducing travel business online, this efficiency has allowed us to redirect Thailand, Taiwan and South Korea have delivered 27.3% costs and by using technology to reduce communications ourinvestment into proposition enhancements.
This performance clearly demonstrates expenses an initiative which is in line with our transformation theopportunity that exists in these markets and we continue as a web business.
to invest in these regions to capitalise on growth that exists.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS A Digital enterprise: delivering strategic branches.
Through the execution of the strategy, the return Delivering cash efficiencies  onsales from our North American business has more than Our business model gives us the opportunity to reduce our The web has the added benefit of being our lowest cost doubled in two years from 4.0% to8.5% a topic covered working capital requirements.
EDEs want the latest technology toserve channel per transaction and our transition to inmore detail on page 57. including esoteric products for their work so that they can eCommerce channels has given us the opportunity to create the next successful electronic product.
For a supplier The high level of eCommerce penetration in Europe, currently reducestructural costs and leverage our global infrastructure.
tobenefit in full from a new electronic product becoming at 74.5% of sales, has enabled us to remove organisational successful following its design by our EDE customers, they layers in the region in September this year, a step which has The transition to the internet has also need their latest technology to be used in the design stage.
provided the customer with faster response times and the Iftheir latest technology does not feature in the initial design, allowed us to reshape our businesses.
business with structural cost efficiencies.
itwill not be required in higher volumes when the product Our European web penetration level has also enabled us to reaches production.
As this seeding of technology is the The benefit of this continued change to lower cost channels announce recently that we are entering a consultation process source of suppliers own future growth, they often work helps underpin our targeted return on sales of between 12% to establish a European centre of excellence for our outbound withus closely helping them benefit from the opportunity and 15%.
Despite challenging market conditions, this, together sales team in Krakow.
This again enables us to achieve a todistribute their latest technology to our two million customer with our other cost reduction measures, has contributed consistent high level of sales quality across the region and contacts worldwide.
tothebusiness showing resilience this year, achieving an facilitates cost efficiencies.
industry leading return on sales of 11.0% for the full year, As a result, we offer a competition beating range of products anincrease of1.9 percentage points over two years.
Operational efficiencies from the move to eCommerce, as and have arrangements in place with suppliers to reduce wedrive towards our target of 70% of sales from this channel thelevel of slow moving inventory through more flexible The eCommerce efficiencies that we can benefit from include for the Group as a whole, will remain a key area for us as arrangements.
Over the past 12 months we have introduced our implementation of one-touch order processing: whereby wecontinue to implement our strategy and leverage existing 84,000 products, but also removed 63,000 products, helping orders placed via e-channels are processed automatically technology and business process programmes to accelerate to ensure that we have the capacity for the latest technology untilthey are ready to be picked in the warehouse.
Through the automation of many internal operations.
the use of technology such as Optical Character Recognition andadvanced telephony to automate our transactional Synergies from our global reach Our sales to working capital ratio is currently at 24.7%, processes, we can improve our service efficiency and reduce The same technologies are used by engineers all over the down1.0% since our strategy began to be implemented.
cost by cutting down the time it takes to get orders picked world.
This global characteristic is enabling us to develop and Wecontinue to target a working capital as a percentage and packed, giving us further opportunities to remove optimise the way in which we purchase and sell our products ofsales ratio less than 22% over the medium term.
through our Buy Anywhere, Sell Anywhere initiative, ensuring that we buy our products at the most competitive global prices The transition to the internet has also allowed us to reshape and our supply chain holds the inventory in the most efficient our businesses.
In 2010, we reorganised the North American location.
This allows us to target further operational efficiencies business into a more efficient structure.
While maintaining our as well as increasing our inventory turns by optimising the customer contact points we consolidated our call centres into supply chains common inventory and centralising our high a best-in-class facility, improving the quality of our sales team service, broad depth of slower moving lines.
and reducing costs through the removal of inefficient physical Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Key performance indicators Since the launch of our strategy five years ago, we Financial key performance indicators havemeasured the execution of our strategy through Sales per day growth of 6% to 8% Return on operating assets of greater than 30% Over the economic cycle we will continue to target sales Through improvements in return on sales and efficiencies the same internal and external KPIs, which have been perday growth of 6%8%.
This is a combination of our focus inworking capital we remain committed to increasing the embedded across all of our businesses andaligned onthe EDE market sector, which has an estimated long term effectiveness of investments in our operational assets and with our incentive and compensation plans.
These growth rate of 6%8%, and the higher growth developing continue to target a return on net operating assets of greater metrics have ensured that the business has remained international markets, offsetting the estimated 0%3% long than 30% for the Group.
term growth in the late cycle global MRO market.
focused on our strategic goals while acting with agility Free cash flow to sales ratio of 6% Gross margin stability Over the cycle we remain committed to improving the to respond to the changing economic conditions.
Margin stability is a clear differentiator in our industry and profitability and cash flow performance of our business and Thishas led to resilience through the economic cycle, weaim to deliver a stable gross margin in line with our we will continue to target a free cash flow to sales ratio of 6%.
enabling us todeliver competition beating high service longterm average over the cycle.
This reflects the quality Working capital to sales ratio to be less than 22% and industry leading returns.
ofbusiness we serve and the value that customers attribute We are committed to improving the cash efficiency of our toour proposition, while also providing a key platform to business through programmes embedded in our business deliver operational gearing.
Through executing our core strategy, we arecontinually with our target for our working capital to sales ratio to be less Return on sales of 12% to 15% than 22%.
driving change within our organisation and our KPIs Over the cycle we are committed to the strategy of delivering reflect this.
6% growth in active customers per annum 12% to 15% return on sales and believe this is achievable With 99.6% next-day delivery to meet our customers fast oncethe EDE market returns to its historic 6% to 8% growth delivery needs, the business has inherently low order visibility: rates, as the efficiencies of transitioning to the web are realised a key indicator of the business future prospects is the growth and as execution of the strategy in Asia Pacific and North of our MDD active customer base.
It reflects the attractiveness America progresses.
of our proposition and our market share gains.
Our target is a 6% per annum growth rate in the MDD active customer base, defined as the number of customers who have transacted with us in the last six months.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Financial key performance indicators Strategic key performance indicators Environmental Impacts EDE sales representing 50% to 70% of MDD sales Employee engagement We recognise the advantage for businesses in managing At the heart of our strategy is the business focus towards the As a service business, our results are achieved through theirenvironmental impacts.
As part of our strategy, we EDE market sector with its higher long term growth.
Our goal ourpeople and having an actively engaged employee seekto support the global drive to reduce the environmental is for 50%70% of MDD sales to come from the EDE sector, baseiscritical to our success.
To this end, we will continue impacts of electronic products through becoming the ametric achieved this year with 52.5% of sales from the totargetan annual employee engagement score that industrys leading distributor for sustainable technologies.
exceedsthe benchmark for high performing companies.
Inaddition we remain committed to ongoing initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental impact of the Groups existing eCommerce sales representing 70% of MDD sales Sustainability performance business, demonstrating our own industry leadership in Becoming a web based business, as part of a multi-channel We benchmark our sustainability performance through the thisarea.
Theactions being taken to address our carbon customer offering, allows greater efficiencies and reflects Business in The Community BiTC Corporate Responsibility footprint and other sustainability issues are outlined in our thegrowing online trends in the way EDEs work.
Our target index and, as we continue to enhance our own sustainability comprehensive Sustainability Report, in which we address isfor MDD sales through eCommerce channels to reach 70%, practices, we aim to achieve and retain the highest level in theimpacts that our business has on the environment a metric already surpassed in Europe which achieved 74.5% theBiTC Corporate Responsibility index.
This KPI is featured andthepeople that we engage with, and the way that we inthe fourth quarter.
in Companys Sustainability Report which can be accessed manageissues surrounding sustainability to build competitive online at http: annualreport2012.
com 30% of total sales from developing countries advantage and grow trust.
The report can be found online .
Growing our business in the worlds developing markets athttp: annualreport2012.
com sustainabilitywillbe critical to future success as over the longer term Google page rank report.
pdf, and a summary of the key data appears onpages thesemarkets are expected to grow at rapid rates specifically Our target is to achieve a Google Page Rank score of seven 72 to 76 of this report.
Our goal is for 30% of total sales for the element14 Community, providing a clear and true to come from the worlds developing markets.
reflection of the sites importance and relevance within the EDE sector.
Our past year achievements, relative to these KPIs, are outlined in more detail on pages 18 and 19 of this report.
