Repair Maintenance Service Volume distribution Manufacturer direct Large OEM Volume distribution Small OEM Pilot Prototype R&D Student Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS The high service distribution market Our markets End-to-end Life-cycle Design to repair The global electronics distribution market in which Premier Farnell operates includes both high service distributors, providing a wide range of products with fast delivery, and high volume distributors.
Premier Farnell is focused on high service distribution and meeting the needs of two main engineering customer groups, EDEs and MRO engineers.
EDEs are engaged in conceptualising, designing, prototyping and producing new electronics products in low volumes.
MRO engineers predominately maintain, operate and repair the installed product base of electronic equipment.
High volume distributors handle the supply of large quantities of components for scheduled manufacturing of electronic equipment.
Broad customer base The overall size of the global electronics distribution market is approximately EDE Premier Farnell Manufacturer MRO Premier Farnell 200billion, of which the high service element is conservatively estimated at 20billion.
High service distribution is highly fragmented with around 20% of the total available market served by Premier Farnell and three other global players.
The remaining 80% of the high service market is served by small and medium-sized local competitors.
High service High service The overall size of the global electronics distribution market is approximately 200billion, of which the high service element is conservatively estimated at 20billion.
The chart left shows High market size c 20billion Major players less than 20% share the life cycle of an electronic design from prototyping through to the end of its useful life.
Premier Farnell principally operates at each end of the curve.
Customers in the high service sector demand a broad range of stocked product with trusted, quality information and fast delivery.
Furthermore, engineers are increasingly demanding support throughout the design process with requirements forsoftware and technology solutions that can beaccessed immediately through an online environment.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Business review continued Wehave continued to invest in these critical areas of our proposition, something that smaller, regional distributors Opportunity for profitable growth areless able to do.
As a consequence these competitors arefinding it increasingly challenging when trying to meet customer needs and expectations.
As one of only four global distributors able to meet these exacting requirements, Premier Farnell has significant opportunity to leverage its high service proposition to win new customers and gain market share.
More Pervasion innovation of electronics Farnell element14 has a strong position in many European markets, Newark element14 is one of the leaders in North America and element14 in Asia Pacific is fast becoming a market leader across the region.
The other businesses within MDD, namely CPC and MCM, operate primarily on a national basis in their home markets Increasing Driving number technology UKand Ireland, and North America, respectively and are Pervasion of gradutes innovation of electronics focused on a particular subset of the overall electronics is structurally distribution market.
increasing the EDE Growth in electronics market potential Continued economic uncertainty makes growth rates in the global electronics market for the coming year hard to predict.
Increased The structural growth trends in electronics are strong and we More competitiveness EDEs and reduced believe that they will return to historic growth rates of a more needed cost timestable 6% to 8% per annum.
This is in contrast to the shorter to-market sharper cycles that have been seen over the last few years.
New environmental legislation adds further pressure Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS As users demand more and greater functionality, improved Although the long term growth in electronics favours Our customer proposition aesthetics and new versions of existing products the design theEDEmarket, in times of economic uncertainty there The strength of our strategy and our continuous focus cycle gets shorter.
This perpetual revolution is driving growth isarequirement by companies and individuals to extend oninnovating for our customers and suppliers provides and increasing the speed of the design process, adding thelifeofa product.
This leads to a short term increase considerable opportunity for profitable growth as the trusted tothepressure on design engineers to shorten the time intheneed for MRO products, as we have experienced source for the EDE market.
With 80% of the high service andcostto market of their new innovations.
inthesecond half of 2012. distribution market being served by small and medium-sized The growing body of environmental legislation increases CPC and MCM supply electrical and electronic ranges, distributors our infrastructure and customer offering provides theneed for new greener, lower energy products and adds suchas audio-visual and security products, to very asignificant competitive advantage to drive profitable, organic toengineers requirements for the very latest information, broadcustomer bases, from specialist retailers and small growth through market share gains.
With the rising importance easilyaccessible in one centralised place, like element14.
The level of general customers place on the web, information and a global supply economic activity also exerts some influence on the sales chain increase when selecting their distribution partners, Every year more than a million electronics engineers graduate performance of these businesses.
smaller, regional players find it increasingly difficult to meet globally, to meet the worlds need for electronics and further expectations providing us with a competitive advantage and fuelling the rate of innovation.
At the same time, new centres Premier Farnell supplies a variety of industries across a opportunity to win market share gains.
We continue to invest for design excellence emerge in developing markets to serve number of geographic markets.
We support a huge range in our content rich web environments and global supply domestic producers and western companies moving their ofcustomers in 156 different industries, with no single chainas we look to take market share from our small and design activity to these territories.
customer accounting for more than 1.5% of sales in each medium-sized competitors.
region, while no supplier accounts for more than 5% In this time critical and changing world, Premier Farnell is well ofproducts.
This diversification of geography, customer placed to profit from the global structural trends in the EDE We continue to invest in our content segments and suppliers limits our exposure to regionalised market through our high service focus, end-to-end support economic cycles and provides us with opportunities richweb environments and global forour customers and infrastructure around the world.
The growing body of environmental Our proposition both for customers and suppliers gives legislation increases the need for new usacompetitive advantage to achieve structural growth.
Through meeting our customers needs for the latest technologies, we can also offer suppliers the opportunity In addition to the EDE segment, we are committed to toseed new products the components specified in the providing MRO products that complement our EDE products earliest phases of design will be required in large volumes and services, where our proposition is valued.
Although MRO should that design reach production.
is a broad and often highly competitive market, Premier Farnell is focused on specific, more profitable vertical market segments, such as Robotics, Petrochemicals and Marine.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Business review continued Great product availability A trusted source of quality information Support through the design process Both our EDE and MRO customers require a wide range of Customers require detailed product information to ensure EDEs are increasingly demanding a single, trusted source products from different suppliers to complete their projects.
thattheir purchases meet the technical specifications in fortheir design needs, and Premier Farnell is committed to InMDD, we have a truly world-class linecard, stocking over theirdesign brief.
They need information that they can trust provide end-to-end support, through the design cycle.
As well 465,000 products and having access to over four million and they trust no one more than their fellow engineers.
as meeting customers needs for electronic components and more, from 3,500 suppliers.
Additionally, we work with Theelement14 Community allows design engineers to share other key products, our Service Beyond Product proposition suppliers toensure that we stock their newest products ideas and discuss their projects with other EDEs to draw enables us to further support customers needs with software, andthe niche technology which is so valued by our EDE ontheir experience.
The element14 Community for EDEs hardware such as development kits, PCB services and customers.
Thisisaccompanied by web-based real-time wasthe firstand is the most popular of its kind and the solutions.
This year, we have taken considerable steps NewProduct Introduction NPI programmes accelerating information provided through the Knode this year enhances inproviding this end-to-end support through the launch thetime-to-market for new technologies.
This year we their experience with us.
In addition, our customers have oftheKnode, the proposed acquisition of Embest and the added51,000 newEDE products to our global line card.
access to24 5 technical support from our 200 technical development of version 6 of CadSofts award-winning support engineers.
Fast delivery At the core of our customer proposition is fast and reliable eCommerce innovation gives us a Our suppliers appreciate the online distribution of locally stocked products.
Our seven distribution competitiveadvantage centres located around the globe ship 35,000 packages interaction with our customers through Design engineers are early adopters of new technology eachday and allow us to achieve same or next-day shipping andthey seek to do business with companies that can thecommunity and the Knode.
for 99.6% of the products we sell.
For our EDE customers, meettheir needs as they evolve.
thishelps keep their design cycle flowing and reduces Our suppliers appreciate the online interaction with our Our multi-channel approach means that we provide support time-to-market.
Suppliers are able to rely on us to deliver customers through the Community and the Knode.
tocustomers through the channel they prefer which is ahigh service proposition on their behalf, supporting a myriad Theybenefit from insightful data on emerging technologies, increasingly the web.
Premier Farnell has led the industry of different customers and markets and delivering small evolving customer trends from a suite of sophisticated web initsinteraction through customers via eCommerce through quantities of their products in a timely manner, a service that analytics and our innovative global eSupplier strategy that innovations such as the element14 Community, the Knode they would often be unable to provide without our partnership.
isaligned to engineers needs for rich web-centric content.
andour innovative eProcurement tool, iBuy.
Such innovations have provided us with a competitive advantage by providing us with a better sense of trends in the marketplace through sophisticated web analytics.
This has helped us source the right products from suppliers at the right times, giving us a distinct advantage over our smaller, regional competitors.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Internationalisation Environmental influences The last 12 months also saw two further batches of The international developing markets also represent a Environmental legislation that impacts the electronics industry Substances of Very High Concern SVHCs published under significant structural growth opportunity for our business as is moving at an ever increasing pace with many new and the REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and electronic design engineering becomes an increased part of varied challenges affecting both our customers and suppliers.
There are obligatory the industrial makeup of territories such as China, India and Environmental legislation is encouraging more electronic requirements to supply customers with safety information Eastern Europe.
The number of engineers graduating globally design in order to meet the legislative requirements in many where a product contains such a substance.
Premier Farnell continues to grow each year, reaching over 900,000 last year markets and Premier Farnell has the opportunity to use its isa leading provider of such information and gathered the in the eight major engineering markets.
The market share position to interact and guide suppliers and customers alike required information on over 430,000 products in respect opportunities in the emerging markets are also even higher, as through the changes.
ofthe batch of SVHCs published in June 2011.
Negotiations the large distributors are new to the region and currently many on the Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment WEEE This year the European Union Restriction of Hazardous smaller players service a higher proportion of the customers Recast were ongoing and new collection targets were agreed.
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Recast there.
We have the added advantage that these countries have These, along with a re-categorisation of products, willenter orRoHS2 became law and all EU Member States must high web adoption levels which has enabled us to enter new into force during 2014.
Large Producers faced thechallenge transpose the requirements into national law by January 2013. territories, such as Thailand, Taiwan and South Korea, without ofreporting obligatory Battery and WEEE dataintonumerous RoHS2 will introduce the new product categories of a substantial on-the-ground presence.
Member States who all have different interpretations of the law.
Monitoring and Control Instruments including Test Equipment and Medical Devices.
In 2019, RoHS2 will become an Premier Farnell continues to monitor the progress on Conflict Since we began our strategic openscope directive and a new Category 11 will capture all Minerals under the U. S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act.
transformation, we have generated electrical and electronic equipment not captured in Categories The US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC has one to ten unless specifically excluded.
RoHS2 will become beenin the process of finalising the detail of the regulations.
significant organic growth and have aCE mark directive which will mean manufacturers, importers Premier Farnell is well placed to react once the regulations theopportunity to drive this further and distributors will need to collect further new information arepublished.
such asproduct declarations of conformity andkeep complex throughmarket share gains.
These legislative changes have become important considerations technical files for ten years.
Beyond Europe, China, India for new design work and affect our customers immediately.
andKorea are all developing their ownversions of RoHS.
The structural nature of the high service distribution market Premier Farnell provides industry leading guidance, interacts clearly represents a significant opportunity for the Company to at government level, and boasts the best-in-class legislation grow market share, underpinned by a competitive advantage portal at www.
com legislation which received over from its innovative web environments, widespread customer 200,000 views last year as part of our commitment to provide reach and global supply chain expertise.
Since we began our critical support and information to EDEs.
strategic transformation, we have generated significant organic growth and have the opportunity to drive this further through market share gains.
