Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Performing through the cycles 2012 was a challenging year, as macro-economic Premier Farnells strategy for profitable growth has uncertainty continued to dominate the business strengthened the Companys resilience, enabling the landscape.
After astrong first quarter, the decline deliveryof results through the cycles with Group sales ofthe industrial and technology markets in early growthup23.5% in the last two years and operating profit summer ushered in a period of slow grind it out up47.3%.
Ourtransformation from catalogue company to growth.
Bytheimmediate nature of Premier Farnells multi-channel, digital enterprise has produced an industry business, long term visibility is limited butthe leading return onsales and improved cross cycle performance realityofchanging market conditions is quickly for the lastfour years, despite the market conditions.
This positions the business as something of This strategy will continue to drive growth as we focus on anindustrial bellwether amongst the first to see thefaster growing EDE segment, taking more business via upturn and new trends but also one of the first to theweb, further internationalising our model and maximising seeslowing conditions.
the profitable opportunity from our core MRO.
Understanding what customers need isvital to our future as the trusted globalsource for engineering solutions, powering innovation and supporting our customers to bring their new products tomarket faster than ever before.
In this short interview Harriet Green, Chief Executive ofPremier Farnell since the beginning of this transformational journey, reflects on the progress to date and future opportunities for growth.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS The web 48 websites globally in 33 local languages receiving approximately 32.5million pageviews per quarter.
EDE 55% of MDD sales came via the web Added 51,000 new EDE products to our stocked andother e-channels.
Plan page 6 range and 18 new suppliers, eight of which were element14 Community received over Innovate page 8 solution based software and services suppliers.
Lead page 10 Launched the Knode, Premier Farnells unique Deliver page 12 online workspace for EDEs.
Enhanced our end-to-end design engineering solutions proposition including the launch ofversion 6 of CadSofts EAGLE software.
International International growth markets now account for23.2% of Group sales, movingtowards oursuccess metric of30%.
Profitable MRO Eastern Europe grew strongly, up 29.2% driven by the regions web sales performance.
Global MRO sales grew 7.1% year-on-year, with focus on strategic, vertical market segments.
135,000 stocked products available to customers in Asia Pacific, contributing to an Invested in MRO inventory breadth and depth, increase in our active customer base of 5.5%.
now carrying over 100,000 lines of stock.
To learn more, we asked Harriet Micro-sites and communities on element14 provide segment specific product information, Green about progress and future legislative information, feeds from industry experts, white papers and blogs for strategic plans for the Group vertical market segments.
See Harriets video online: http: annualreport2012.
com Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS plan Focus on global EDE customer segment Business resilience and agility Develop a profitable MRO business Drive business via the web Internationalise the Group Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Q We cannot control the wider markets but we can and we Our continued focus on the core of our business saw us willcontinue to manage our response with agility.
We have dispose of TPC Wire & Cable and the calibration laboratories Is your strategy resilient enough for the clear three year success metrics against which we regularly of Newark Services this year, generating net proceeds of changing world and uncertain landscape?
These help us to remain focused 23.2million to reinvest.
We also announced in the fourth on our core business measures whilst growing our active quarter our intention to acquire Embest, a provider of customer base andincreasing our share of the available market.
embedded development tools and engineering design Harriet Green, CEO: Our return onsales has averaged a strong 11.8% for the core services, to enhance our growing Services Beyond Product In a world where shorter, sharper, more frequent cycles seem MDD businesses over the five years of our transformation, portfolio of products and services.
The Embest acquisition to be the new reality, understanding the environment in which falling toonly 9.7% in 2010, the low point of the last recession, willalso bring over 20,000 active customer contacts.
we live and evolving our strategy to deliver real differentiation with9.5% sales contraction.
Leading suppliers want to partner with us to seed their for our customers, suppliers, investors and employees is Our MDD Americas business clearly demonstrates the success newesttechnologies to the expanding EDE market.
Harnessing the power oftechnology has allowed us to of our transformation.
eCommerce sales for the Americas as Strongpartnerships with the worlds leading semiconductor take a leadership stance aswecontinue to invest in innovation, apercentage of total sales were 38.2% in 2012 with 39.0% manufacturers and technology companies give us return such asthe element14 Community and the Knode, setting the oftheregions business now coming from the EDE segment.
rights, protection, security of supply and reliable, quality standard forothers to follow.
Consequently, MDD Americas was able to deliver return products to meet our customers needs.
Weare abletobuy The web is a key enabler of our differentiation, as customers onsales for the year of 8.5% compared to the 4.0% delivered competitively and take advantage of our size andreach to expect their suppliers to provide faster, easier access to twoyears ago.
develop a world-class customer proposition anddrive important information.
As our business moves increasingly customer loyalty.
Our global footprint and growing presence in the new tothe web the opportunity to work more efficiently has been international markets ensures our internationalisation strategy Suppliers can see the difference we are making and we acritical part of our transformation, helping us reduce planned continues to gain momentum.
Full year sales from these continue to attract new solutions partners like ARM, Pentalogix, costs and strengthen our overall financial position.
markets were up 27.3% giving a three yearcompound growth and Sunstone adding a total of 18 new suppliers this year.
Our growing online proposition enables us to uniquely support of 54.3%.
Our presence in Asia Pacific was negligible at Despite the sharp contraction last year in global industrial new and exciting technologies, providing a powerful way to thestart of our transformation journey but wehave now built andtechnology markets, we continued to demonstrate launch them to market which would not have been possible astrong infrastructure in a total of 27 locations in the region, theresilience of our balanced strategy and operating inthe past.
One such example is the launch of Raspberry Pi, most notably Australia, New Zealand, China, Singapore, model.
Weincreased sales despite the previous years the revolutionary credit card sized computer through our Thailand, Korea, Taiwan and India.
We hold over 135,000 lines recordlevels, maintained full-year operating profit and element14 Community, shortly after year-end.
of locally held inventory, have 11 websites infive languages, achieved an industry-leading return on sales for the fourth asophisticated logistics operation that enables delivery successive year.
The successful execution of our strategy to253Chinese cities on a daily basis, andareable to offer generated strong cash flow, and enabled us to maintain thebesttechnical support in the industry from our Global returns for ourshareholders.
Technology Centres in Bangalore and Shenzhen.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS innovate Digital enterprise 48 transactional websites globally Industry leading element14 engineering community The Knode: a unique online workplace Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Q Earlier in the year we commissioned a study with Technology The web is a critical part of our multi-channel offering and our Forecasters to look into the current and future needs of design customers channel of choice.
55.0% of sales were through How are you using the web to competitive engineers.
Easily accessible information and a central place eCommerce in 2012, with close to 75% in Europe, our most advantage?
Is your focus still on toaccess a full suite of design tools and solutions scored high digitally advanced region.
Customers are clearly signaling to multi-channel?
on their list of requirements.
This year, we launched our totally us how they want to work and we will continue to exceed their unique, online workplace the Knode, providing a range of needs as more and more choose the web as the primary way tools and support invaluable to design engineers.
Our growing to purchase, collaborate, commune and interact.
Thecore Harriet Green, CEO: suite of eCommerce tools adds value to our purchasing foundations of our web business will be further strengthened Whether supporting EDE or MRO customers, the web gives customers as we improve workflow management to ease this year with the exciting launch of a new web platform which usreal competitive advantage and our suite of innovative complex processes.
will improve all aspects of the overall online customer weband eCommerce tools provide our customers with the experience, whilst driving greater efficiencies.
Our multi-channel commitment ensures that customers can information and functionality they need.
interact with us however, and whenever, they want to and our Our growing web proposition provides customers with fast global resources are unrivalled in the high service space.
Multi-channel reach and resources access to data and information, whether through our transactional Ourlocal presence of field sales, local office and multi-lingual sites or our unique element14 Community which offers commercial centres and 33 local language websites ensure 48 transactional websites, engineers instant access to the latest environmental we understand our customers needs and can communicate 33 in local languages legislation, industry experts, design tools, an online TV channel with them in the most effective way.
Every day, we ship over and the chance to collaborate and share with other engineers 67,000 line items from our global Distribution Centres, where Over 32.5 million page views globally.
With 79,000 registered members, and nearly four we hold inventory in region, close to our customers, to ensure per quarter on transactional million visitsin the last 12 months, element14 has now we can meet our high service commitments for excellence and community websites cemented its position as the fide facto engineering community again and again.
In our business, customers expect us to in our industry.
We have further activities planned for the year dothe basics well, innovate brilliantly and execute flawlessly.
Over 300 Field Sales Staff ahead, including showcasing the engineering innovations of our customers and suppliers, and the new Design Flow series.
Over 900 Contact Centre Staff We are the first, and only, high service distributor to combinecommerce and community, offering customers Over 200 Global Technical Support acomplete solution and attracting more and more of them Engineers with Live 24 5 support asaconsequence.
On the pin board in my office, I have asimple newspaper cutting.
It says If you innovate, they willcome.
Thats why we continue to invest in our online toolsand functionality to attract more customers and encourage them to buy more products, more often.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS lead Industry leading return on sales at 11% 103% of operating profit Profitable growth converted to operating cash Net costs reduced 6 million year-on-year Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Q ROS of 12.5% and EDE growth of 38.3%.
This year, although markets have softened, core MDD ROS remained at an How has your strategy translated into industry leading 12.2% for the year as we benefited from the financial delivery?
efficiencies afforded by our online growth.
Our strategy drove cash conversion rates this year of Harriet Green, CEO: 102.7%ofoperating profit, giving us added confidence to invest in our strategy.
Even in the recent economic downturn, Our strategy has made us stronger, and even in tougher we maintained, and subsequently increased, our dividend markets, offers balance between the key industry segments payment levels.
I believe this demonstrates how our strategy and the different requirements of the developed and developing isdelivering profitable growth.
Without this strategy, so markets.
Our performance, even through the most difficult vigorously executed, Premier Farnell would not have navigated market conditions, has delivered a differentiating stable margin the market conditions or been able to grow profitably, whilst performance, supported byour focus on the more profitable anticipating the future needs of our customers and becoming EDE and MRO segments and the lower cost to serve, online a partner of choice for our suppliers.
Our financial position remains robust with good liquidity Our strategy allows us to respond at pace, and with agility, andstrong free cash flow, strengthened by our successful tochanging conditions, removing over 17million of planned refinancing in the year.
expenditure this year without impacting our core business saving 9million year-on-year: 6million at constant Our strategy has made us more profitable throughout the exchange rates.
cycles and we will continue to drive our success metrics to deliver increased market share, greater customer acquisition Since we began this journey to transform the business we and a focus on adding value to all those who partner with, have invested over 75million of capital in our EDE, MRO, andtrust us.
webandinfrastructure programmes to provide our customers with theinnovation and service levels they demand.
This has The growth potential and resilience inherent in our strategy fuelled our evolution to an internet led, solutions provider for have been demonstrated through all market cycles and, as we the engineering community, growing our active customer base look to a year of continued uncertainty, we remain cautious on by 2.7% year-on-year, an important forward looking measure.
the economic outlook, restricted by the limited forward visibility in our model.
However, as comparators become easier in the The investment in our strategy has delivered an industry second half of the year and we benefit from a 53rd week, we leading return on sales ROS.
In 2009, ROS in our core MDD expect growth to return this year.
We will continue to execute business was 11.8%.
In 2010, as our markets were impacted our strategy for growth with agility, invest for the future and by the global economic downturn, with sales declining by measure our performance vigorously against our three year 9.5%, MDD still delivered a resilient 9.7% ROS.
And in 2011, success metrics to deliver shareholder value.
the web gave us the ability to bounce back strongly, making us one of the first technology and industrial distributors to signal growth, posting MDD sales growth of 23.1%, core MDD Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS deliver Trusted solutions 465,000 stocked products, four million more available to customers 24 5 technical support for customers 200 technical support engineers Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Q The pervasion of electronics continues at an ever increasing Being able to offer the full suite of tools design engineers pace, with the constant introduction of new products and needand deliver solutions is increasingly critical to success in What does your solutions focus mean technologies driving innovation and creating opportunity for us this high growth market.
Through our intimate understanding for customers?
in all segments and regions.
New products are leap-frogging of customer needs, garnered from the web andelement14 previous generations of equipment as product life-spans Community, we have developed our Services Beyond Product become shorter.
Our customers cover the fullspectrum of strategy bringing together the design tools, information, and Harriet Green, CEO: electronics design with over two million customer contacts software that engineers need to do their work.
In 2012, 52.5% of our business was in the faster growing in156 different industry segments oursis a market of In addition to innovation, they need a partner who can execute EDEmarket, which is estimated conservatively to be growing massive opportunity.
with agility and pace, someone who can anticipate their future at 6%8% through the cycles, and offers so much potential for As users demand more and greater functionality, improved needs and provide them with great product availability across long term growth.
This makes EDE the central, unwavering aesthetics and new versions of existing products the design a broad range of technology from the esoteric to the focus of our strategy and innovation.
Our three year success cycle gets shorter and the pressure on engineers increases.
They need a total solution and we can provide it.
metric isfor 50%70% of our business to come from this Its a cycle of perpetual evolution fuelling growth, increasing segment.
TheMRO market is also an important long term Engineers need fast delivery from a trusted source of the speed of the design process and the sensitivity of cost opportunity, albeit growing more slowly through the cycle.
supplyso as not to slow their design process.
We meet our when taking new innovations to market.
In a time critical world, Ourfocus here has been in thehigher technology, more customers demands for same day or next day delivery with engineers need centralised access to products, support, profitable segments, like robotics, oil and gas.
It is the synergy 99.6% of the products we sell, help keep their design cycle software, toolsand information quickly.
Our solutions focus of both EDE and strategic MRO, over the cycle that provides flowing and time to market short.
Weguarantee the quality aims at providing them with the solutions they need to be us with a strong balance.
Customers in both segments value ofour components and our data the element14 Community successful in the fast paced technology world.
our proposition and allow us to leverage our investments, offers the data matched with thesoftware and design tools technical support teams and element14 Community to add The growing body of environmental legislation also adds tohelp them begin work immediately.
Finally, they want value to their work.
apressure for engineers to create new greener, lower best-in-class technical support throughout the design energyproducts and increases their need for the very process we have round the clock availability, five days latestinformation, all easily accessible from our Community.
perweek, from Premier Farnells 200 plus technical support Ourlegislation portal received 174,000 visits in the last engineers a team that has grown ten-fold since the outset 12months as customers trusted our information to help ofour strategy to become the best in the industry.
themin this increasingly important design stage.
The size We will continue to power engineering innovation by providing ofour opportunity is clear as technology trends drive trusted engineering solutions to meet our customers current innovation, and generate greater market opportunity for those needs and exceed their future expectations.
distributors trusted to provide total engineering solutions.
