Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Strategic Focus 3 Profitable growth through Premier Farnell is now truly international with over 80% ofsalescoming from outside the UK.
We ship nine million packages each year around the world from seven distribution international centres with shipping accuracy of 99.7% an achievement made possible by investments in our global footprint.
Becauseofthese investments we still have sufficient business capacityin our supply chainto grow further and capitalise onthe opportunities in ourchanging world.
model With our differentiating and strong customer proposition, we have a large opportunity to take market share.
As markets such as China, India and Eastern Europe continue A thirst for technology powers to mature, people there place a greater importance on new innovations and become increasingly reliant on technology.
Premier Farnell is well placed to capitalise on the structural growth opportunities in these international regions and now Premier Farnell is well placed has 23.2% of sales to international growth markets, well on theway to reaching our strategic target of 30%.
This thirst for new technology is the catalyst for an explosion ofnew talent with ever increasing numbers of EDEs graduating from universities each year.
Last year, over 900,000 engineers graduated from India, China, USA, Japan, UK, South Korea, Germany and Australia alone.
Electronic design is shifting tothe developing markets as local industry grows and companies in Western economies shift their resources tocapitalise on this lower cost talent and infrastructure.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS High service distribution in the developing markets is highly Although we are focused primarily on growing the business The web also allows us to enter fragmented.
With our differentiating and strong customer organically, our proposed strategic acquisition of Embest will newmarkets easily which is how we proposition, we have a large opportunity to take market share, add more than 20,000 customer contacts in China, allowing in addition to being well positioned for the structural growth as us to leverage our existing infrastructure which enables us successfully entered the South Korean such regions emerge as global centres for electronic design.
todeliver to 253 cities in China, 152 next day.
This exciting market in 2011. addition to our Services Beyond Product offering in the Growth in our key territories continued this year with India and AsiaPacific region is a great opportunity for us to provide Eastern Europe up 37.1% and 29.2%, respectively.
We tailor Our Asia Pacific business, headquartered in our state of the itsexisting customer contacts with our extensive portfolio our offering to each markets specific needs, while continuing art distribution centre in Singapore, is evolving from a start up ofproducts and services.
to leverage our global expertise and best practice to differentiate to a more mature business.
As part of this process changes ourselves from the local competition, and it is clear that tothe executive leadership team have been made, along with customers in these markets value our proposition.
the introduction of a best-in-class warehouse management system to increase efficiency and reliability.
Despite some local Our advanced web capability is fundamental to our differentiated dislocation in the region caused by the Japanese earthquake proposition in the developing markets.
The information that in March, combined with the global slowing in the second half wecan supply through the web and our element14 Community of 2012, the outlook for the Asia Pacific market over the longer helps us to attract and retain customers and younger, new term appears strong.
Economists predict that China, for engineers graduating in the developing regions are especially example, will experience GDP growth of around 8% this year.
appreciative of our sophisticated online experience.
The web also allows us to enter new markets easily which is how we successfully entered the South Korean market in2011.
Our advanced web capability is fundamental to our differentiated proposition in the developing markets.
Emerging markets are increasingly reliant on technology Premier Farnell is well placed to capitalise onthe structural growth opportunities in these markets, now with 23.2% of sales tointernational growth markets, well on theway to our strategic 30% target.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS International continued Eastern Europe is becoming ever more relied upon by Achievements in 2012 Priorities in 2013 industrial businesses in the more mature European markets, International growth markets now account for Continue to drive towards the target of 30% of total leading to strong structural growth in both our EDE and 23.2% of Group sales, moving towards our revenue from our developing International markets.
This year we saw strong sales successmetric of30%.
growth of nearly 30% and we continue to focus on the exciting Increase EDE and MRO sales in India and China opportunities in this region.
You can read more about our Eastern Europe continues to show strong sales through focus on targeted vertical market segments development in Eastern Europe on page 31. growth, up 29.2% driven by the regions web such as lighting, wireless and alternative energy.
We are committed to realising our global aims for the business Capitalise on the investment made this year on and are encouraged by the depth of opportunity that exists Successful expansion into Thailand, Taiwan initiatives to drive market share in the fragmented inour international markets which continue to offer us strong andSouth Korea last year.
Other regions continue developing markets.
growth and market share opportunities.
tomature into strong businesses with sales in Ongoing investment in operational and IT Indiaup37.1%.
infrastructure and capabilities globally which Continued to enhance our proposition, adding canhelp to drive efficiencies in our developing 21,000 new stocked products available to markets and provide customers with an customers in Asia Pacific with 135,000 products enhancedproposition.
now stocked in region, contributing to an increase Leverage the customer contact base from the inour active customer base of 5.5%.
proposed acquisition of Embest to further drive Partnerships with new suppliers in developing growth in China in our target EDE segment markets, such as Infineon, Littelfuse and LeCroy andthrough the expansion of Services Beyond have helped strengthen our position as a major Products supplied to this customer set.
player in the high service distribution industry Continue to explore suitable strategic acquisitions ofthese regions.
which extend our footprint and customer Invested further in our initiatives to drive proposition in developing markets or anincreasein our market share within the complementary spaces within eCommerce.
 that exists across ourtargeted international markets.
Better choice for emerging market customers We continue to enhance our customer proposition, adding 21,000 new stocked products in Asia Pacific contributing to a 5.5% increase in our active customer base in the region.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Insights: Eastern Europe When we initially expanded into Eastern Europe we entered the A centre for growth markets of Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary.
More Eastern recently we have extended our footprint in the region to include Eastern Europe has been an area of strong growth for Premier Russia and Turkey.
For each of these countries we have local Farnell since we focused on the market in 2006, the first high language and currency websites as well as sales people in region service distributor to do so.
It remains a great opportunity for the Europe who are supported by an Eastern European sales team based business.
The decision by companies from the developed markets inthe uK.
to increasingly undertake their production in the region is leading to structural growth in the electronic design and manufacturing A key to our success has been the career development of industries.
Our wide product range, technical information theEastern European team which has mirrored much of the translated in local languages via the web and our ability to offer development across the wider organisation.
Many members next-day delivery, combined with multi-channel, multilingual ofthe Eastern European team began their Premier Farnell careers technical support, is making Premier Farnell the trusted source inour uK offices in Leeds, before progressing to sales support for EDE and MRO customers in the region.
This customer roles back in the Eastern European region, with some then going proposition has helped the Eastern European business deliver on to manage our largest customers in the region.
astrong sales performance with 29.2% sales growth this year.
Jakub Binda, Key Account Manager Poland, describes his journey: My career at Premier Farnell started in the Credit Control teamin Leeds.
However, I had always wanted to pursue arole that interacted with customers face-to-face.
Although I had limited prior sales experience, my managers sent me on a course to see if I was suited to such a career.
Three years on I am now responsible for 30% of the business direct sales in Poland and Ivisit customers daily.
The support from the Eastern European sales team back in Leeds and the strength of our local language websites mean I can spend more of my time talking to customers about exciting developments within our business such as the CadSoft EAGLE design tools and PCB fabrication services.
Rita Kuhn, new Business Development Executive for Hungary, Eastern Europe has been an area of growth had a similar experience.
I came to the uK in 2005 as I wanted toimprove my English.
Because I was fluent in Czech I got a job for Premier Farnell since we entered the at Premier Farnell, working in the Eastern European sales support market in 2006, the first high service team overseeing support for the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
distributor to do so and it remains agreat AsI saw the business develop and succeed, I too became more and more hungry for success.
Having been promoted to Outbound Sales Manager for Eastern Europe, I took up the opportunity to move back to Hungary to undertake field sales for new and developing small businesses.
With the Company constantly evolving, many others in the team have had similar experiences and, like me, are motivated to findopportunities for the business and provide great service to customers.
From my experience, I know that customers will get the high service they expect from Premier Farnell as well as service with a smile, even on the phone.
See more Insights online: http: annualreport2012.
com Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Profitable growth through focusing on the strategic segments of MRO MRO MRO is an important part of our strategy for profitable growth.
We are focused on driving sales in the profitable segments ofMRO only, where our high service customer proposition isvalued.
At the same time we are decreasing the proportion ofcommoditised MRO products in our business where gross margins are lower and competition is fierce.
Premier Farnell is increasing These more profitable MRO sectors have growth prospects itsbusiness in profitable MRO above the 0% to 3% at which MRO as a whole is broadly growing over the long term.
This compares to growth of through a strategic focus on anestimated 6% to8% in the EDE segment, through the economic cycle.
However, during a downturn repair activity becomes more prevalent as businesses and consumers try to extend the lifeof equipment to reduce capital investment until economic conditions improve.
This gives MRO a propensity to perform better later in the economic cycle and during periods of economic uncertainty.
As such, our MRO sales havegrown by7.1% year-on-year.
These more profitable MRO sectors have growth prospects above the 0% to 3% at which MRO as a whole is broadly growing over the long term.
In high tech MRO segments, such MRO accounted for 50.0% of our core MDD business as asPetrochemicals, Robotics, Marine weexited the year and, although over time we target a andIndustrial Automation, customers value our high service proposition proportional reduction to 30% of MDD sales compared to relying on fast delivery, detailed ourtarget of 70% EDE, MRO offers opportunities.
As such, product information and a preference itremains an area of significant focus for us.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Premier Farnell is increasing its business in profitable MRO We also continue to see strong growth in our higher We moved swiftly to capitalise on the through a strategic focus on particular industry segments margin, exclusive MRO brands, Tenma, Pro-Power, growth experienced during the economic suchas Petrochemicals, Robotics, Marine and Industrial Pro-Elec, Pro-Signal and Duratool and continue to invest Automation.
As these segments are more high tech, inthisarea, adding 600 new products to the range last year.
uncertainty last year in line with our customers there display many characteristics similar to EDE Our MRO capabilities have significantly increased in the strategic focusareas.
customers, i. e. they rely on fast delivery, information about focused areas from when we began our transformation theproducts and prefer to use online channels.
This allows journey in 2006, while we actively manage our inventory Our MRO products come from trusted suppliers such usto leverage our existing knowledge and infrastructure toensure that we increasingly carry the high technology asHoneywell, Tektronix, Fluke and Schneider Electric, andcustomers in these segments value our high service MROproducts that our customers require while removing asupplier where we added over 1,000 new products to proposition, which makes them more profitable.
Furthermore, products as they become commoditised.
ourproduct portfolio in our target segments during 2011 our MRO product range includes tools for soldering, testing aswe moved swiftly to capitalise on the growth experienced equipment, switch components, motors and drives products during the economic uncertainty last year in line with our which are also relevant to EDE customers.
Premier Farnell operates here As part of our initiatives to focus on these profitable MRO segments, we have enhanced our web proposition by launching micro-sites in Alternative Energy, Defence and Aerospace, Instrumentation and Measurement, Medical, Lighting, Wireless, Sensing, Robotics and Transportation.
These micro-sites combine with our communities on element14 to provide segment specific product information, legislative information, feeds from industry experts, white papers, and blogs.
The robotics micro-site is covered in moredetail on page 35.
MRO products EDE products More commoditised lower margin Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS MRO continued There are many MRO specialists that work at Premier Farnell, Achievements in 2012 Priorities in 2013 but we also continue to invest in supplier technical training Focus on strategic MRO segments and marketing C ontinue to drive growth in the strategic segments forour sales and technical support teams to ensure that programmes to drive global sales which grew 7.1% of MRO through ongoing marketing programmes customers get the service they demand.
This year we have year-on-year.
Invested in MRO inventory breadth and focus on the area within the business while also appointed senior level talent to help ensure that our anddepth, now carrying over 100,000 lines of stock.
ensuring that the business continues to transition focuson MRO continues in line with our strategic objectives.
away from the commoditised MRO space.
Senior level talent appointed to ensure MRO Our continued focus on increasing our share of the EDE objectives are achieved through focus on strategic Leverage MRO investments in training, the web segment whilst balancing this against targeted opportunities vertical market segments.
andinventory on a global basis to strengthen our within the MRO segment will enable us to deliver long term high services MRO proposition and drive sales profitable growth in this sector.
By attracting customers North America has focused on driving strategic growth on a global basis.
interested in our high service MRO proposition this also MRO this year, reducing its reliance on commodity sustains our higher margins, leverages our distribution and product and, alongside increases in EDE and Grow the global customer base in strategic web infrastructure and contributes to our strategic return eCommerce, increasing profitability.
MROsegments by taking advantage of crossover onsales metric, while providing some resilience during short between MRO products used by EDE customers Established micro-sites and communities on term periods of economic uncertainty.
and meet fully the needs of these customers in element14 to provide segment specific product vertical segments through signing of partnerships information, legislative information, feeds from with specific niche suppliers to offer the full suite industry experts, white papers and blog for strategic ofrequired products.
Continue to grow and develop the higher margin Continued to develop our five exclusive MRO private label product line by adding relevant brands, Tenma, Pro-Power, Pro-Elec, Pro-Signal products and driving sales growth in this area.
and Duratool, adding 600 new products last year.
This has lead to sales growth of 11% in these Review how to better leverage MRO purchasing MRObrands.
activity on a global basis to drive cost-to-market efficiencies, taking advantage of our global infrastructure.
Focus on strategic MROsegments North America has increased profitability by focusing on drivingstrategic MRO, EDE andeCommerce, whilst reducingcommodity MRO.
Premier Farnell See more Insights online: Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 http: annualreport2012.
com OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Insights: MRO Robotics For example, robotics is used in the medical sector, through This year, we launched a global robotics micro-site to bring One strategic MRO segment that we have focused robotic surgical equipment and robotic wheelchairs and the together all of the key products and information customers onthis year is robotics.
This growing technology industrial sector through robotic arms in fabrication plants.
working in this segment need to maintain, repair and operate sub-sector is benefiting a multitude of applications Robotics is perfectly suited to our MRO strategy as the products theirequipment or to complete the development of their robotics that are needed are high tech, required quickly in relatively small solution.
The micro-site links directly to our transactional website across a vast array of vertical markets.
quantities and the assurance of quality with the supporting to ensure MRO engineers can obtain the products they need information is prized.
Robotics is particularly interesting as the more quickly.
MRO products in this space are also often needed by our EDE A key feature of the micro-site was the inclusion of six common customers, meaning that the investment we make in targeting solutions that included both the EDE and MRO products required therobotics market also enhances our ability to support to complete a robotics project.
These are Automatic Guided EDEcustomers.
vehicles, Remote Surgical Robots, Industrial Robotic Arms, Robotic Wheelchairs, Pipeline Exploration Robots and Search and Rescue Robots.
To support the micro-site, a robotics group was developed on theelement14 Community to allow engineers in the sector to collaborate and work with others to find the right solutions for their needs.
As well as key information, training manuals and Community conversations on particular solutions, there is user generated content including video and conversations on current trends, competitions and areas of interest in the robotics segment attracting customers to return.
We have also enhanced our product range in the sector and increased our engagement with strategic partners such as Schneider Electric, Lapp, ABB, Wago and Weidmuller to significantly add to our robotics proposition by offering their latest technologies.
We have made good progress this year with our ability to service customers in the robotics segment and this has led to sales growth of 5.5% this year.
However, there is more to be done.
Wewill add more products and esoteric suppliers specific to therobotics market and strengthen our proposition further with information on legislation to help customers find products with the required approvals quickly and easily.
