Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 68 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS There are three brands in the Marketing and Distribution Division: element14, Farnell element14 and Newark element14.
As the product and solution portfolio and customer base of Market position these businesses are diverse, the precise market positions of these brands are hard to quantify.
However, all of the brands are widely viewed as trusted sources for electronic design and reputation engineers, with element14 particularly synonymous with innovative engineering solutions.
The businesses which carry these brands are true multi-channel operations with online and paper-based product information, marketing programmes and relationship management.
The success of these programmes within their key market segments, as well as their brand element14 is synonymous with reputations, is reviewed through regular customer surveys, focus groups and the progress of the business corresponding innovative engineering solutions net promoter score.
helping attract and retain our Customer relationships twomillion customer contacts The MDD businesses have a customer base comprised of approximately twomillion customer contacts.
The customer andour 3,500 suppliers to the contacts are typically electronic design engineers, maintenance and repair engineers or procurement specialists.
a diverse spectrum of private and public organisations, covering 156 industries and areas of commerce.
No single customer represents more than 1.5% ofGroup sales.
The MDD businesses have a customer base comprised of approximately twomillion customer contacts.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS The Group has continued to invest in its Customer Our broad and growing supplier base is balanced, offering Supplier relationships Relationship Management CRM systems within its key MDD customers around the globe a breadth of products, services, The MDD businesses work with over 3,500 suppliers, stock businesses this year.
These CRM systems are important in tools and technology solutions.
This year, we added or approximately 465,000 products, and offer access to more growing the business understanding of customers needs extended our partnerships with 18 new suppliers, including than four million other products.
andenabling the business to offer specific customers the Micrium, Intersil, Littelfuse and Lecroy.
We continued to services that they most value.
The Group also has a suite of develop strategic alliances with some key suppliers which Our suppliers also benefit from our ability web diagnostic tools which improves our understanding of provide us with improved commercial terms as well as a customers purchasing needs, web technology requirements deeper product range offering to our customers.
to provide insightful data on what ultimately and product preferences and also provides a unique insight Across element14, Farnell element14 and Newark element14 drives customer choice in the earliest into the ways in which customers work.
All such information the portfolio of suppliers is managed by an international team.
isextremely valuable to us as we continually look to innovate phase of design through sophisticated The largest suppliers within this portfolio include many global and invest in our proposition to meet customers desires premium brands for whom integrated, go-to-market strategies suites of web analytics.
are developed, including innovative eSupplier strategies Premier Farnell is committed to manage relationships closely andtheir embedding into the Groups engineering solutions Suppliers are attracted to the Divisions ability to leverage with our customers.
To do this we interact with them through portfolio.
During the year, Premier Farnell continued tobuild multi-channel solutions-based technology marketing to seed amulti-channel approach, using both traditional touch itsproposition to design engineers, securing new distribution new products to its large and global customer base, with a pointsthrough face-to-face meetings, by phone and through agreements with prestigious suppliers including ARM, Atmel, proposition that continues to attract new customers and the catalogues, but increasingly through eCommerce channels Infineon and a number of others all of which further improve Divisions capability to support the provision of entire and especially the web.
The web is becoming our customers our technology offering.
We also secured additional territorial engineering solutions for end customers.
preferred channel and an opportunity for us to develop a closer extensions with existing suppliers to support our emerging Our suppliers also benefit from our ability to provide insightful relationship, providing for their product information requirements businesses in Asia Pacific, Brazil and Eastern Europe.
Many data on what ultimately drives customer choice in the earliest and the trusted source of their engineering solutions.
ofthe new suppliers signed this year develop new, emerging phase of design through sophisticated suites of web analytics.
technologies that are in very high demand from EDE This kind of intelligent information and data can help our customers as well as offering services and solutions that suppliers to focus on particular end markets and applications arecritical to successful design of an electronic product for example.
Elsewhere within Premier Farnell, supplier relationships are managed at a local business level.
This enables us to meet specific customer needs by sourcing locally branded products or value-brand products from each region.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Market position and reputation continued Distribution network and inventory At the year-end the Group held 215million of inventory in its The Marketing and Distribution Division has operations in businesses, of which 92% was in the MDD businesses.
These are supported by a network of distribution centres that enable the Division to ship products anywhere Inventory is managed on a line-by-line basis, utilising best-in-class inthe world within one to three days.
99.6% of orders are forecasting and stock monitoring IT systems.
The re-ordering dispatched on the day they are placed and received the next of most products is automated, enabling purchasing teams to day to meet our customers fast delivery requirements.
The manage order quantity, delivery or demand exceptions.
Order network is comprised of seven primary distribution centres: fill rates are among the highest in the industry, in line with the Groups commitment to service excellence.
The Division aims US Gaffney South Carolina and Springboro Ohio to increase stock turns through the use of ever more intelligent UK Leeds and Preston systems, seamless supply chain integration with suppliers, and elimination of any non-moving stocks.
Mainland Europe Lige Belgium Asia Singapore The Marketing and Distribution Division Australia Sydney has operations in 34 countries.
These are These are supplemented by satellite warehouses in other supported by a network of distribution locations including Mexico, Brazil and China.
Collectively, this centres that enable the Division to ship network ships up to 35,000 parcels per day and stocks some 465,000 products with access to another four million more.
products anywhere in the world within Technology systems are therefore central to delivering high oneto three days.
service and over the last year we have begun to align and enhance our distribution capabilities by implementing a global The Division uses a variety of third-party carriers to ship Warehouse Management System.
This new platform means orders.
It has a strategic relationship with UPS, its principal our distribution capability is moving to become a complete carrier, responsible for approximately two-thirds of its global integrated logistics offering.
The network is managed by worldwide deliveries each day.
a global supply chain team that shares best practice between locations and drives a programme of continuous improvement in accuracy, efficiency and service.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Insights: Return.
Our approach to sustainability focuses on delivering services At our Distribution Centre in leeds we work with Remploy, a thatare valuable for our customers, the environment and also localsocial business providing jobs and training for individuals forthe business.
Part of our Trust Agenda, our sustainability with complex barriers to work, to sort and clean the packaging strategy drives solutions to environmental and social challenges that we receive.
The packaging is then restocked in order to be that are also beneficial for Premier Farnell and our customers.
used again to protect customers orders.
The volume of packaging that we ship to customers is a By looking at the value derivable from packaging as a resource, significant environmental impact of doing business, and also rather than as a waste product, we are able to create value for our represents a cost to us of purchasing new packaging and to customers by reducing the cost and inconvenience of handling ourcustomers in disposing of it.
waste packaging, create jobs in the community surrounding our operations and reduce our spend on protective packaging.
Since Building on our multi-award-winning biodegradable packaging, the pilot launch in October 2011, we have reclaimed and reused reducing the waste created by the static-dissipative bags in over 750kg of packaging, reducing our costs by over 12,000. which we ship many of our products, during 2011, we launched ascheme to reclaim and reuse packaging that Farnell customers would otherwise dispose of as waste.
Semiconductors and small components are often shipped inwaffle trays for protection, or attached to reels for efficiency inour customers production processes.
This packaging is madeof moulded plastic and, in most cases, would need to beshredded and reprocessed before it could be used again foranother purpose.
Working with our logistics partners, our European customers can now request a recycling pack from their Farnell account manager and return waffle trays and reels to our uK Distribution Centre free-of-charge, instead of paying their waste disposal contractors to recycle them.
