Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Financial Key performance key performance indicators indicators Sales per day growth % Return on sales % Since we began our strategy to transform our business, we have made strong Target Target 6%8% Total 12%15% Total progress in many areas, despite market conditions changing ever more frequently.
2008 4.5 2008 11.6 The implementation of our strategy has seen us produce industry sector leading 2009 1.2 2009 10.8 returns through the short, sharp economic cycles.
In 2011 we capitalised on our 2010 -9.5 2010 9.1 2011 21.1 2011 11.2 opportunities as the markets recovered from the previous downturn.
2012 saw 2012 1.6 2012 11.0 uscontinue the transformation of our business through our core strategy, despite We target accelerated sales growth through focusing on the Operating efficiencies and the success of our eCommerce strategy weakening market conditions during the course of the year.
fastergrowing EDE sector and international economies.
resulted in the business achieving return on sales of 11.0%.
2012 Performance 2012 Performance Despite weakening sales per day growth as a result of the The Group demonstrated a resilient, industry leading return onsales Like many companies we have not been immune from the weakness in the globalslowdown in our markets, and very challenging performance of11.0%, down just 0.2% year-on-year.
Thisreturn on comparatorsfrom last year when a record 21.1% growth was sales was helped by cost actions to shape the business around the industrial and technology markets this year which makes the resilience displayed achieved, the Group delivered year-on-year sales growth of 1.6%.
web as well as controlled discretionary spend.
Costs as a Inthe first quarter, growth rates were above our targeted 6%8% percentage of sales reduced by 1.1 percentage points for the full inour key performance indicators KPIs even more of an achievement.
Inthe second quarter, market conditions year.
Growth inthe second quarter fell to 1.4% before stabilising at -1.4% and -1.9% in the third and fourth quarters.
As we look forward to 2013, we will continue on our transformational journey, Gross margin % Working capital as a % of sales working towards targets that are aligned to the business future.
These targets Target Stable Total Target 22% Total areshared in full on pages 48 and 49 of this report.
Our transparency and 2008 39.3 2008 25.7 willingness to regularly communicate our identified success metrics provides 2009 39.2 2009 28.4 2010 39.4 2010 25.2 bothour internal and external stakeholders with a clear and consistent view 2011 40.7 2011 23.9 ofthebusiness performance.
2012 39.6 2012 24.7 We will achieve gross margin stability through a balanced We have identified and are continually executing operational and Total shareholder return customerand geographic profile in order to manage risk.
working capital efficiency programmes as part of our strategy.
These programmes help us to deliver strong cash performance Premier Farnell FTSE 250 Index excl.
Investment Trusts 2012 Performance tofund investments.
Value Gross margin for the year was 39.6%, in line with our five year average, and reflecting the value placed by our customers and 2012 Performance 200 suppliers on our high service proposition.
Although gross margin In 2012 our working capital as a percentage of sales increased was 1.1% lower year-on-year, this is a reflection of the increased to24.7% from 23.9% last year.
The increase in working capital 150 lower margin MRO as a proportion of our sales caused by the reflects the impact of the market slowdown.
As we realigned change in market conditions.
The margin premium on EDE over ourinventory levels with the lower sales levels in the second half, MRO was maintained.
agreater proportion of our inventory had been paid for at the 100 year-end than at the prior year-end.
50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 This graph shows the value, by 29 January 2012, of 100 invested in Premier Farnell over the last five financial years compared with 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Source: Thomson Reuters Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Strategic key performance indicators element14 Community Google Free cash flow to sales % Sales from developing markets % Sales from EDE % page rank Target Target Target Target 6% Total 30%Total 50%70% Total 7 Total 2008 5.6 2008 15.9 2011 52.5 2011 6 2009 6.8 2009 17.6 2012 52.5 2012 6 2010 8.3 2010 19.8 The EDE customer segment is estimated to be growing at circa As a digital enterprise, the element14 Community is an intrinsic 2011 3.8 2011 22.0 6%-8% per annum through the cycle.
This segment is a more partof our online strategy.
Googles page rank score is a profitable area of our addressable market, as EDEs are constantly logarithmic scale which provides us with a numeric value 2012 4.9 2012 23.2 working under tight time-to-market constraints and attribute greater thatrepresents the importance of element14 as a reference value to our high service distribution offering.
siteontheweb, and consequently to our customers.
This is a combined measure of both the improved profitability Targeting sales growth in the developing markets is a key part of our andcash flow targets of the strategy.
strategy and is essential to the sustainability of our profitable growth.
2012 Performance 2012 Performance Achieving 50%70% of our electronics distribution sales from When we launched our industry leading element14 Community 2012 Performance 2012 Performance theEDE segment is at the centre of the Groups strategic inJune 2009 it started with a Google page rank of 0.
As a vibrant Full year free cash flow as a percentage of sales was strong at Our developing markets such as India and Eastern Europe have transformation.
EDE sales penetration levels achieved our targeted hub for EDEs, its Google page rank ended the year at six against 4.9%with our working capital aligned with our sales performance continued to deliver strong growth through our strategic journey.
This was despite slowing in the EDE market caused our target of seven out of ten.
Free cash flow as a percentage of sales This year our developing international markets accounted for by economic uncertainty this year, as reflected in weak data from reached 9.9% in the fourth quarter.
23.2%of total Group revenue, an increase of 1.2 percentage the Semiconductor Industry Association which showed adecline pointsagainst challenging comparators last year.
of1.8% for the year and 8.8% for the fourth quarter.
Return on net operating Sales via eCommerce channels % Active customer base growth % Employee engagement assets % RoNA High Performance Benchmark Target 30% Total Target 70%Total Target 6% Total Target 84% Total 2008 30.2 2008 27.6 2011 5.9 2008 74.0 2009 29.6 2009 32.0 2012 2.7 2009 76.0 2010 29.2 2010 38.8 2010 77.0 Increasing our number of active customers within the MDD divisionis an important measure when determining how well we 2011 42.5 2011 47.6 2011 80.0 aregrowing our business through attracting new customers and 2012 37.1 2012 55.0 2012 77.0 taking market share, while also retaining our existing customers.
2012 Performance The effective and efficient investment of our shareholders funds Increasing sales on the web is a cost effective approach to growing An engaged workforce is essential for any high performing business.
Our MDD active customer base has grown 2.7% year-on-year isacritical overall measure of the success of our strategy.
our business, offering us and our customers increased flexibility.
2012 Performance anactive customer is defined as a customer who has transacted 2012 Performance 2012 Performance We first completed our all-employee survey in 2007 to consistently with us in the last six months.
This performance comes despite In 2012 the Groups RoNA was 37.1%.
This surpassed our goal of Sales via eCommerce this year accounted for 55.0% of total MDD measure engagement through all periods of the economic cycle.
30% for the second year running and is testament to the resilient sales, over the 50% mark for the first time in the Groups history.
This year, despite the impact of slowing economicconditions, operating profit performance despite slower sales growth, an Regionally, eCommerce closed the year accounting for 74.5% engagement was just 3% lower to 77% remaining in the top quartile industry leading gross margin performance and continued focus and56.2% of fourth quarter sales in Europe and Asia Pacific, of the high performance benchmark.
Insights on page 77 outlines todrive efficiencies as we increasingly become a web business.
respectively, and 36.2% of fourth quarter sales in North America.
the results from the Groups all-employee survey in moredetail.
Note: 2008 refers to the 53 week period ended 3 February 2008, 2009 refers to the 52 week period ended 1 February 2009, 2010 refers to the 52week period ended 31 January 2010, 2011 refers to the 52 week period ended 30 January 2011 and 2012 refers to the 52 week period ended 29January 2012.
KPIs exclude impact of one-off items.
In addition, prior year KPIs for sales per day growth, return on sales and gross margin, have been restated to exclude the trading results of TPC.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Strategic Focus 1 Profitable growth through Electronics Design Engineers EDEs want a single trusted source to support them in the new design of electronics.
Consumer demand for electronics is rising, with heightened focusing on emphasis placed on product aesthetics and compliance withenvironmental regulation.
EDEs are under ever increasing pressure to deliver and expect more of their partners.
EDEs globally We understand the demands of EDEs and what they want from their high service distributor.
This year we took this one step further and, in conjunction with Technology Forecaster Incorporated, we conducted a study to help highlight some ofthe challenges EDEs face.
The results demonstrated: The world of the EDE is changing EDEs are time constrained and require a single trusted source of electronic design solutions rapidly.
Electronics is becoming EDEs are in need of design information and data that increasingly ubiquitous across all iscomplete, accurate and found in one online location EDEs need access to the latest, rapidly changing aspects of life.
technologies quickly We understand the demands of EDEs Support andwhat they want from their high Knowledge servicedistributor.
Product Community Fast Delivery High Service EDE Time Constraints PF Trusted Information Global Broad Offering Solutions Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS We are investing to evolve our EDE proposition for the world Engineers rely on detailed technical information to choose Engineers rely on detailed technical inwhich we live and they design for.
theproducts that meet their design brief.
To meet this need, information to choose the products we have up to three gigabytes of information available on Under the banner of our element14 brand, we took great our465,000 stocked products online, while we also provide thatmeet their design brief.
To meet strides this year towards becoming the trusted global source access to information on over four million more products.
for end-to-end solutions for electronic design engineers, thisneed, we have up to three gigabytes Aswell as detailed product specifications, this includes delivering innovations and propositional enhancement to legislative and environmental information ever more vital ofinformation available on our 465,000 support them throughout the design cycle.
With the launch toengineers as compliance with the increasingly stringent ofthe Knode, our online intelligent search and knowledge tool, stocked products online.
regulations around the world is essential for the future viability we are now able to support the engineers in their biggest of their product.
The Knodes online We continue to invest throughout our EDE proposition to environment is an industry first which brings together all that More recently we have begun to offer customers operating ensure we meet more of our customers needs.
This year an EDE needs in one place from design development kits, system source code as well as over 45,000 Computer alone we have added over 51,000 new EDE products to toembedded software, design development tools, Printed AidedDesign CAD model files.
We have also enhanced ourportfolio and in total we have extended or signed new Circuit Board PCB layout tools and prototyping services ourdepth of technical talent within our two global technology agreements with 18 supplier partners.
One of these new andtest and measurement products.
Our move to become centres, employing 200 technical experts globally.
This partnerships was with ARM, a global leader in technology aprovider of engineering solutions made another exciting additional technical expertise takes our technical support innovation, as they recognised how we are pioneering stepforward with the announcement that we intended toanindustry leading level.
Offered 24 hours a day five days inourindustry to provide engineers with complete toacquire Embest, extending our solutions offering to aweek, customers can access our technical support in truly engineeringsolutions.
includedesign engineering services and products for the multi-channel manner, via email, online chat or the telephone.
You can read more about these revolutionary developments on page 23 of this report.
com community community knode Becoming the trusted source for EDE solutions With the launch of the Knode, our unique online workspace, we are now able to support engineers in their biggest challenge reducing time tomarket.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS EDEs continued The EDE sector has grown between 6% and 8% through Achievements in 2012 Priorities in 2013 thecycle and in total, around 900,000 engineering students Sales to the EDE sector accounted for 52.5% of C ontinue to focus on the EDE sector, as we move graduate annually in eight of the most advanced engineering ourelectronic component distribution business closer towards the top end of target of EDE sales countries in the world.
52.5% of our business came from sales.
This is within our target range of 50%70%.
penetration of 50%70% for our MDD businesses.
theEDE sector this year and our goal is to achieve 70%, withour investments over the past year uniquely position Our ability to provide entire engineering solutions Leverage our strong product portfolio and larger touscapitalise on the significant growth opportunities that and improvements to our web environment has solutions offering to grow our global EDE active exist in this sector today and in the future.
been at the forefront of our enhancements to our customer base.
Further enhance the Knodes proposition Added 51,000 new EDE products to our stocked withtheaddition of global and regional suppliers range and 18 new suppliers, eight of which were inthesoftware, services and tools markets.
solution based software and services suppliers.
Successfully integrate and embed Embest into Launched the Knode, which incorporates the ourorganisation and capitalise on its engineering Drawer functionality that offers EDEs the ability design services capabilities.
tosave entire design project resources within Leverage the breadth and depth of our global theKnode making it easier for EDEs to make EDEspecific inventory to ensure we are well theirpurchases.
positioned to capitalise on growth opportunities Significantly enhanced our end-to-end design inthe year ahead.
engineering solutions proposition including: Continue to explore global acquisition opportunities launchof version six of CadSofts EAGLE software, that exist in the engineering solutions and design new partnerships signed with ARM, five new services industry.
PCBservices partners such as Screaming Circuits andSunstone and embedded software introduced from leading development house, Micrium.
Released 45,000 CAD model files, to support products from many of the worlds leading electronic component and semiconductor suppliers.
End-to-end EDE proposition Our ability to provide end-to-end engineering solutions and improvements to our web environment have been at the forefront of ourenhancements to our EDE proposition.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Insights: EDE The Knode Version 6 of CadSofts EAGLE software Delivering In June of this year we launched the Knode on element14.
Two and a half years ago we acquired CadSoft Computer GmbH, Created by engineers for engineers, the Knode is an intelligent a leading German-based developer and supplier of the EAGLE online search and knowledge tool that helps customers select CAD software for electronic design engineers.
In December, and purchase complete engineering solutions for their design.
ourcontinued thirst for innovation saw us develop and release customers These solutions range from exclusive element14 development version six of the award-winning EAGLE software.
This key kitsto operating system software from Micrium and development milestone sees us deliver significant enhancements and new tools from ARM.
Since it was launched the Knode has received features to the EAGLE software that provide design engineers design over 320,000 visits from customers, who have used the Knode increased flexibility and efficiency when designing the layout toresearch over 860,000 different aspects of their designs.
oftheir printed circuit board another example of how our Tofind out more about this groundbreaking innovation visit ServicesBeyond Product work is helping us meet EDEs ever engineering http: www.
The acquisition of Embest solutions In December, we announced our intention to acquire Shenzhen Embest Technology Co Ltd. Embest is a technology company focusing on the design, development and marketing of embedded development tools, reference designs and engineering design services.
With the addition of these new capabilities and Embests customer contacts in China exceeding 20,000, this acquisition represents a significant opportunity forusand great progress in our evolution to become the trusted global source for design engineering solutions.
The acquisition isdue to be completed in the first half of 2013.
Our Services Beyond Product initiative focusesondelivering enhancements to our The Knode, the release of version six of EAGLE and the proposed acquisition of Embest are clear indications of our move to proposition so we support an EDE at every become a leader in the world of design engineering solutions.
phaseof their design cycle: not just as a source And it doesnt end there, this year we also partnered with five ofquick access to electronic components, but newPCB services partners, added embedded software to our extensive product portfolio and joined forces with ARM, the alsorelying on us for the provision of software, worlds leading supplier of semiconductor intellectual property tools and services.
whose development tools suite is at the heart of the digital electronic design.
The addition of such software and services augment our component product portfolio to solve problems Through our own innovation, development and commonly faced by EDEs.
By making the EDEs job easier from strategic acquisition, we have made real progress the start, these design solutions create differentiating value for with Services Beyond Product, helping element14 our portfolio long before component specifications are made, ultimately positioning us as the distributor of choice when become the worlds leading provider of end-to-end itcomes to the resultant electronic component purchases electronic design engineering solutions.
generated in the later stages of the new design process.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Strategic Focus 2 Profitable growth through The web can transform the shape, structure and efficiency ofany organisation, but for us it goes beyond this, it is about meeting the needs of our customers.
As a digital enterprise, web our web proposition is a superb and expansive vehicle enabling us to provide: Easy access to large amounts of design data, legislative development information and the latest product details Best-in-class search results for customers to find what and the theyneed, quickly and easily Instant access to discussions with engineering experts andindustry peers multi-channel An array of tools to simplify engineering and buying processes approach Around the world we have a total of 48 transactional websites, 33 of which are in local languages.
These websites receive onaverage 32.5million page views each quarter and this yearall were optimised so that they can be viewed on mobile devices.
In addition, this year we launched a new CadSoft website, SEO optimised, while in the Americas we introduced live tax and freight information, something which customers inthe region demand, yet our competitors do not offer.
Around the world we have a total of 48transactional websites, 33 of which areinlocal languages.
Web is our customers channel of choice Easy access to large amounts of design data Best-in-class search results for customers Instant access to engineering experts and industry peers Tools to simplify engineering and buying processes Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS what customers are discussing, a route to interact with end When we launched the element14 Community, it was an So no matter where a customer visits users, a way to disseminate huge amounts of information, industry first.
We have continued to lead the way this year usonline, the rich experience they receive anda fast route to a global market only achievable through withthe addition of the Knode.
Our Ben Heck television an offering like ours where commerce, content and serieshas attracted over 3.2million viewers since its first and the access to relevant information community converge.
airing, and now we have our very own online element14 theyare afforded is truly best-in-class.
TVchannel, featuring world-class suppliers and industry By offering a compelling, innovative environment, customers renowned experts.
In other exciting developments this year, stay on our websites longer, building our relationship and Strengthening our transactional environments is just part we introduced nine micro-sites that offer solutions for different spending more with us through each stage of the design ofthe journey, with our real differentiation in the marketplace vertical markets, a resource that is valued by both our EDE cycle.
Combined with high technology suppliers such coming from our move to fuse commerce, content and customers and engineers in our targeted MRO segments.
asARM, the web helps engineers to trust us to deliver community.
The unique blend of transactional websites, Ourelement14 Innovation Series also made its debut this onourincreasingly exciting proposition of end-to-end theelement14 Community and the Knode, which is detailed year, bringing together some of the electronics industrys solutions for design engineers.
inInsights on page 23, is a clear example of how we keyleaders in a virtual forum to share what the future holds aredefining the future of online distribution.
Content is inthe fields of medical, alternative energy and robotics.
nowsharedacross all three of these environments: our transactional websites have rating and reviews which pull inrelevant comments from the Community and the Knode: theelement14 Community now displays product information and availability where a particular manufacturer or part number is mentioned and the Knode intuitively links product information and availability, with deep technical content from its own learning centre, supported by Community discussions and documents.
So no matter where a customer visits us online, the rich experience they receive and the access to relevant information they are afforded is truly best-in-class.
Ourgrowing presence as a digital enterprise and leading innovator in our industry is attracting suppliers, including the 18 signed last year.
Suppliers value early intelligence about element14 TV Our Ben Heck television series has attracted over 3.2million viewers since its first airing.
Now we have our own element14 TV channel, featuring world-class suppliers and industry renowned experts.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Web continued The pace of our web-based transformation continues to Achievements in 2012 Priorities in 2013 beextraordinary.
In a little over five years we have evolved Increased the penetration of eCommerce channels Continue to execute on our strategy to transform from a traditional catalogue organisation, to one that this to 55.3% of total MDD sales as we exited the year, ourbusiness around the web and move closer yearconducted 55.0% of its business via eCommerce.
with Europe exceeding our KPI of 70% of sales via toachieving our target of eCommerce accounting Someof our regions are already delivering over 70% of eCommerce.
salesvia eCommerce and we have begun to capitalise onthesignificant cost efficiencies associated with such The continued convergence of commerce, content Accelerate the shaping of our organisation, both atransformation.
and community across our entire online presence.
from a transaction and relationship standpoint, as we continue to capitalise on the cost efficiencies Through the web, we are evolving the shape and economics The element14 Community now has over 79,000 associated with our web-based transformation.
As well as reducing costs and making the registrants and over the past 12 months the site business more resilient, this will enable us to service our received over 3.8million visits from customers, an Invest significantly in our eCommerce capabilities customers better through increased relationships with them increase of 72% on the prior year.
The Community toprovide us with further operational flexibility and which will allow us to act even more quickly to drive profitable features element14 TV which has already had over greater capacity to deliver future online innovations.
10,000 visits since it was launched in December Deliver significant enhancements to our online and The Ben Heck Show which has over customer experience, including, best-in-class threemillion viewers.
browsing and search functionality, a faster more Our wave of innovation continues with the launch refined online purchasing flow and integrated ofthe Knode, which since its launch has seen industry specific web tools.
engineers research over 860,000 different aspects Focus on the convergence of commerce, content of their designs.
The Innovation Summit, for The successful launch of the online element14 example, has provided industry leading experiences Innovation Series to identify emerging technologies, and thought leadership bringing the community which attracted over 4,000 views.
To read more together as part of our element14 lives initiative, about the element14 Innovation Series, please refer while growing and developing the Knode and its to page 27. functionality to further strengthen its unique ability tosupport all of the engineers needs.
Launch of nine micro-sites tailored towards engineers working in the vertical markets of Alternative Energy, Defence and Aerospace, Instrumentation and Measurement, Medical, Lighting, Wireless, Sensing, Robotics and Transportation.
Extraordinary pace of web-based transformation We increased the penetration of eCommerce channels to 55.3% of total MDD sales as we exited the year, with Europe exceeding our KPIof 70% of sales via eCommerce.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Insights: element14 lives the buzz of There is a buzz of innovation running through ourCommunity and our offices globally, with a myriad innovation ofideas being developed and shared across continents and organisational lines.
That innovation isthe heartbeat ofour organisation.
Itfuels what we do, just as it drives theengineers we support.
And it has come to life in the innovative new offerings weve launched through element14 this year.
We have a font of innovation that we are harnessing and bringing tomarket in new ways through our Community and through the engagement of our people.
element14 TV debuts The element14 Innovation Series Profiles in Innovation Today, internet video accounts for over 40% of all consumer Electronics engineering could not be possible without innovation.
Dr. Edward fide Bono once said, Ideas are the currency of internet traffic, and will reach over 50% by the end of 2012.
As we acknowledge the recent passing of some of the most success.
They separate you from your competition.
As the pace Morethan ever, people are spending time consuming video influential technology innovators of our time, we also see of change continues to accelerate, this is truer today than ever online to learn, be inspired and be entertained.
Engineers are no tremendous opportunity in being the catalyst for the debate, before.
Our customers and suppliers are prime examples of how exception.
With over threemillion viewers of The Ben Heck Show discussion and learning that will spark tomorrows innovators.
ideas drive success, and we embrace the critical role we have and rising stars like Jeremy Blum and Jerri Ellsworth, whose The first ever element14 Innovation Series is one such example.
Our communications and engagement videos have attracted over 18,000 viewers, and hundreds of Itbrings together thought leaders and industry experts from efforts have raised awareness among employees of our role in leading manufacturers, element14 has already seen how video around the globe in a two-day virtual summit to exchange the engineering process and in delivering innovation.
As a result, content helps reach and connect with more members.
information, ideas and, ultimately, keep the quest for innovative our sales and supplier managers are uncovering the innovations new ideas and solutions alive.
Along with the summit series, the that our customers and suppliers are bringing to market, and As a result, we took another leap forward to showcase our vast innovation section of our Community has become a hotbed for weare showcasing these Profiles in Innovation through video video library in a format that truly delivers an innovative online discussions and visits on the subject, as nearly everyone has a content and stories on the element14 Community.
element14 Tv, which made its debut in point of view on who will be the next great innovator in electronics?
are using the stories to instill pride in our employees and to reinforce December, has already been dubbed the YouTube for engineers.
our brand as innovative and a source for engineering solutions.
With unique series found only on element14, it is the industry The element14 Innovation Series aims to become a recurring go-to resource for quality engineering videos, and will continue event, to engage current members in new ways and to attract Innovation sparks innovation.
Our efforts continue to bring innovation tobe an area of focus as we use it to attract more members new members through our current customer relationships.
to the forefront through video, through online training and content, andcustomers through the growing appetite for video content.
Beyond the two-day summit, the video content will also be and through fostering customer employee conversations around available on-demand through element14 Tv.
By thinking differently, we will remain at the forefront of developments in our industry and continue to use our ideas to put See more Insights online: distance between us and the competition.
