Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 98 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Principal activities and business review Directors A detailed review of the Groups activities and the development of its business, together with an indication of likely future developments, the main trends and factors likely report toaffect future performance and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, are set out on pages 62 to 64 which constitutes the Business review and forms part of this report.
Information about environmental matters, employees and social and community issues appears on pages 72 to 76, with more detail provided in the Companys Sustainability report available at http: annualreport2012.
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of electronic, electrical and industrial products and services to the design, maintenance and repair sectors.
As described in the Business review, the Group does not have significant reliance on any individual customer or supplier and therefore there are no contractual or other arrangements that are essential to the Groups business.
Profit and dividends The Groups total operating profit for the financial year was 123.4million 2011: 112.1million.
This includes 18.9million relating to gains on the disposal of businesses and 2.8million of restructuring costs.
Adjusting for these two items, the Groups operating profit was 107.3million 2011: 112.1million.
The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders was 76.9million 2011: 66.2million.
Further details relating to the disposal of businesses are given in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 21.8million, equivalent to 6.0pence per ordinary share 2011: 21.8million, equivalent to 6.0pence per ordinary share be paid on Steven Webb Secretary 20June 2012 to those shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 25 May 2012.
An interim dividend of 16.0million, equivalent to 4.4pence per ordinary share, was paid on 19October 2011, making a total for theyear of 37.8million or 10.4pence per ordinary share Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS 2011:37.7million in total and 10.4pence per ordinary share.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all The Articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer of The Premier Farnell Executive Trust holds ordinary shares ofour Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General ordinary and preference shares and on the exercise of voting inthe Company acquired in the market in order to meet Meeting of the Company and offer themselves either for rights attached to them, including where the Company has obligations under the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan election, in the case of Val and Nicholas, or for re-election, exercised its right to prohibit transfer following the omission or to provide similar employee benefits.
The trustees have inthe case of all other Directors.
A formal evaluation of the oftheir holder or any person interested in them to provide waived the right to receive dividends in respect of the ordinary performance of each Director and of the Board has been theCompany with information requested by it in accordance shares held by the Trust.
carried out and the performance of each of them continues to with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
preference shares are entitled to receive notice of, but not There is more information on the evaluation and its outcome attend or vote at general meetings of the Company other Post balance sheet events on pages 86 and 87. thanin limited circumstances.
Subsequent to the year-end, the Group entered into The Company provided indemnities to each of its Directors in Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors consultations with appropriate European employee accordance with the provisions of the Companys Articles of areset out in the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must representative groups over proposals to establish a single Association allowing the indemnification of Directors out of the beapproved by shareholders passing a special resolution.
outbound telesales and telemarketing commercial centre assets of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
These TheDirectors powers are granted to them by UK legislation forall European markets in Krakow, Poland.
If the proposal indemnities constitute qualifying indemnities for the purposes and by the Articles.
proceeds as planned, it would result in the recognition of of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at the date of between 7million and 8million one-off costs in 2013.
The Directors authority to make purchases of the approval of this report without any payment having been made Companysshares on its behalf is given by resolution of under them.
Share capital theshareholders and renewed annually at the Companys Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, Annual General Meeting.
Details of the changes in the issued, ordinary share and service contracts and interests in the Companys shares preference share capital of the Company during the year are There are no agreements between any Group company isgiven in the Remuneration report on pages 104 to 117. set out in notes 19 and 15, respectively, to the consolidated andany of its employees or any Director of the Company Thedetails of Directors interests in the Companys shares financial statements.
Preference shares are not classified thatprovide for compensation to be paid to the employee form part of this report.
orDirector for termination of employment or for loss of office asaconsequence of a takeover of the Company, other than At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company Share capital and control provisions that would apply on any termination of employment.
willbe seeking authority to purchase its ordinary and Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in preference shares.
Authorities were previously granted The Companys multi-currency bank facilities and its private notes 15 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
attheAnnual General Meeting in 2011, but expire at the note placements are subject to provisions allowing the lenders TheCompanys authorised share capital comprises ordinary closeof the forthcoming meeting.
to terminate the facilities and demand repayment following shares of fivepence each in nominal value and cumulative achange of control.
convertible redeemable preference shares of 1 each in Directors The trustees of the Premier Farnell Executive Trust an employee nominal value.
As at 29 January 2012, the ordinary shares benefit trust may vote or abstain from voting shares held in the The names and biographical details of the Directors who held andpreference shares represented 82.4% and 17.6% trust in any way they see fit.
office at the date of this report appear on pages 78 and 79. respectively of the Companys total share capital.
The following changes to the membership of the Board took The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares Financial instruments place during the year: anditspreference shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Information on the Groups financial risk management Sir Peter Gershon retired from the Board with effect from Association the Articles, a copy of which can be obtained objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group theclose of the Companys Annual General Meeting on onrequest from the Company Secretary.
A summary of the torelevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set out 14June 2011 and Val Gooding was appointed as Chairman rights attached to the preference shares appears in note 15 under the heading Treasury Operations on page 61 and ofthe Board on 15 June 2011. tothe consolidated financial statements.
innote 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Nicholas Cadbury was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 September 2011, following the resignation of Mark Whiteling when he left the Company on1August 2011.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 100 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Directors report continued Supplier payment policy Employment Independent auditors The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing Information on the Groups policy in relation to employment, Resolutions to reappoint  LLP terms and conditions under which business transactions performance reviews, feedback, diversity, development and asauditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their withtheir suppliers are conducted.
Payments to suppliers employee communications is set out on pages 65 and 66 of remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual aremade in accordance with those terms, provided that the Business review.
General Meeting of the Company.
suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 29January 2012, the amount the Group owed its suppliers Environment Disclosure of information to auditors represented 34 working days purchases 2011: 32 working The Group recognises the importance of responsible Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he or she is aware, days.
The Company is a holding company and does not have environmental management and its obligation to protect the there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys any trade creditors.
The Group therefore gives high priority to all auditors are unaware and that he or she has takenall steps environmental matters.
Further information appears in the that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to Product research and development Sustainability section of the Business review and more detail make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information The Groups product research and development activities are isprovided in the Companys Sustainability report available and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of restricted to the development of new or enhanced products athttp: annualreport2012.
Akron Brass is part of the Groups Industrial report.
During the year the Industrial Products Annual General Meeting Division expensed 2.5million 2011: 2.2million on product Substantial shareholdings The notice convening the Companys 2012 Annual General research and development.
The table below shows the position at 29 January 2012 Meeting at the offices of Farnell element14, Canal Road, In addition, the Group is constantly striving to provide new andany changes up to and including 13 April 2012 where Leeds, LS12 2TU on 12 June 2012 at11:00am is set out orimproved levels of customer service.
This is illustrated theCompany had been notified, pursuant to the Financial inaseparate document issued toshareholders.
intheadvances in our web offering: whether through our Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the The Directors report for the year ended 29 January 2012 transactional sites or the further development of our element14 following notifiable voting rights in its ordinary share capital: comprises these pages 98 to 101 and the other sections Community, which offers a source of engineering knowledge % holding as at % holding as at andpages of the Annual Report cross-referred to above, and design solutions as well as access to colleagues, Company name 29 01 2012 13 04 2012 which sections and pages are incorporated by reference.
During the year the Group expensed 5.3million 2011: 4.4million in these areas.
Capital Group 8.93 8.47 By order of the Board Prudential PLC 7.51 7.51 Steven Webb Charitable and political donations Secretary Baillie Gifford & Co 5.12 In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating Farnell House UBS Global Asset Management 5.04 5.04 certainitems of inventory to charitable organisations.
Forge Lane BlackRock Inc 4.93 4.98 Inaddition, during the year the Group made charitable Leeds LS12 2NE donations in cash of 59,000.
Newton Investment 4.97 4.97 19 April 2012 Further details of the Groups charitable activities appear Fidelity International 4.87 4.87 intheSustainability section of the Business review on page76 Artemis Investment 4.86 4.86 and in the Companys online Sustainability report.
Harris Associates 5.02 4.82 The Groups policy is not to make contributions to Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4.60 4.60 politicalparties.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.43 4.43 Legal & General plc 4.03 4.03 no disclosable holding as at 29 Jan 2012
