22 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS REVIEW continued New Country Entry Exploration IN ADDITION TO EXPLORATION IN THE EXISTING BUSINESS UNIT AREAS, PREMIER LOOKS TO OPEN UP NEW FRONTIER GEOGRAPHIES IN TARGETED NEW COUNTRIES WHERE THE GEOLOGY IS ASSESSED TO BE SIMILAR TO THAT OF THE EXISTING BUSINESS UNITS WHERE PREMIER HAS BUILT EXPERTISE.
2012 Highlights and achievements Andrew Lodge Acquired 5,000 square kilometres of new 3D seismic Exploration Director across the western part of our Kenya acreage Successful entry into Southern Iraq, one of the worlds most prolific basins Gained a significant acreage position in the relatively un-drilled, highly prospective North Falklands Basin through the acquisition of 60 per cent of Rockhoppers licence interests In total, added in excess of 1 bnboe of gross unrisked prospective resources through new country entry Premier is building an increasingly material exploration programme.
Our biggest achievement in 2012 was to rebalance the portfolio through the addition of in excess of 1 bnboe of gross unrisked prospective resources through new country entry.
We continue to look for opportunities in new countries which meet our criteria of delivering play-opening opportunities with significant follow-on potential.
High impact opportunities The acreage recently accessed by Premier in new areas is dominated by deepwater environments where an exploration success has the potential to transform the resource base of the company.
To date Premier has exposure to frontier exploration acreage in selected areas of Africa and the Middle East.
We continue to evaluate new areas for potential entry in 2013.
In East Africa, Premier has equity interests in two blocks offshore Kenya, Blocks L10A and L10B.
Processing and interpretation of 2D and 3D seismic 2 data on these blocks continued throughout 2012, and a new 2,250 km 3D seismic acquisition programme took place over the western part of the blocks in late 2012.
A prospect inventory is being prepared with a view to drilling the first exploration well in 2014 or potentially in the fourth quarter 2013.
In November 2012, Premier was formally awarded a 30 per cent non-operated interest in Iraqs Block 12.
Block 12, an 8,000 square kilometre block in the foreland of the Zagros fold belt up dip from producing fields, lies in a frontier part of one of the worlds more prolific oil and gas basins.
The forward plan on Block 12 is to reprocess the existing seismic data in 2013 and then acquire new seismic data in 2014.
Subject to the interpretation of the new seismic an exploration well will be drilled in 2015 or 2016.
In Egypt, following the drilling of the Cherry prospect in the North Red Sea-1 licence in 2011, Premier has decided to relinquish its equity share of the licence.
Premier has also withdrawn from the South Darag Block in the Gulf of Suez, due to the lack of formal government approval of the licence award.
Premiers exploration rights in the Daora, Haouza, Mahbes, Mijek and Laguara Blocks offshore the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic SADR remain under force majeure, awaiting resolution of sovereignty under a United Nations mandated process.
