Board of Directors Executive Directors: Independent Non-executive Directors: Alex Kanellis age 47 Richard Harvey age 62 Group Chief Executive Mr Harvey was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Mr Kanellis has a Phd in mechanical engineering.
He joined Plc in January 2010 and took up the position of Chairman on 1 July PZ Cussons in 1993.
He was appointed Managing Director of the 2010.
A Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, Mr Harvey became Groups business in Thailand in 1998 before becoming Managing Group Chief Executive Officer of Norwich Union Plc in 1998 and Director of Indonesia in 2001.
He was appointed to the Board subsequently Group Chief Executive of Aviva Plc, initially branded in 2003 as Regional Director of Asia before becoming Chief CGNU, after the merger of Norwich Union with CGU.
Mr Kanellis is a member of the worked extensively overseas in both mature and emerging Nomination, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
markets and was Chair of the Association of British Insurers from 2003 05.
Since retiring from Aviva Plc in 2007, Mr Harvey has Chris Davis age 50 spent time in Africa supporting charitable initiatives and has also Commercial Director worked on other projects to accelerate business development in After working in senior Sales and Marketing roles for various Africa, including work for the Africa Progress Panel and the World consumer goods companies, Mr Davis joined PZ Cussons from Bank.
He is a Non-executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson the BTR Nylex Group in 1993 and became Managing Director of Plc.
Mr Harvey is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Groups business in Australia in 2001.
He was appointed to the a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Board in 2006 as Regional Director of Africa and became Group Commercial Director in 2008.
Mr Davis is a member of the Group Derek Lewis age 67 Risk and CSR Committees.
Mr Lewis has been a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since June 2004.
A retired solicitor and former partner of Addleshaw Brandon Leigh age 41 Goddard LLP, Mr Lewis specialised throughout his professional Group Finance Director career in advising on corporate and commercial matters.
Mr Leigh qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte & Mr Lewis is the Senior Non-executive Director and a member Touche in 1996.
He joined PZ Cussons in 1997 and was appointed of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit, Group Risk and CSR to the Board as Group Finance Director in 2006.
After eight years service to the Board, Mr Lewis member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
will retire with effect from the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
John Pantelireis age 58 Professor John Arnold age 68 Supply Chain Director Professor Arnold is Emeritus Professor of Accounting and Financial Mr Pantelireis was appointed an Executive Director of PZ Cussons Management at Manchester Business School and has been a in 2005 and is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since January 2007.
He has worked in a variety of senior positions for PZ Cussons both A chartered accountant, his previous experience includes spending in Nigeria and the UK and spent three years as Supply Chain 12 years as Director and Dean of Manchester Business School.
Development Director prior to his appointment to the Board.
Professor Arnold is currently Chairman of the Co-operative Performance Committee of Co-operatives UK, a member of the Council of the Greater Manchester Chamber, Chairman of Feelgood Theatre Productions and an academic advisor to Ashridge and to IBS-ISCTE Business School in Lisbon.
Professor Arnold is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and CSR Committees.
PZ Cussons Plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Ngozi Edozien age 47 James Steel age 52 Ms Edozien was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Mr Steel has been a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc Plc in January 2012.
She is Chief Executive, West Africa at Actis, since October 2005.
After qualifying as a chartered accountant a leading private equity investor in emerging markets, where she is with Price Waterhouse he became a corporate financier and responsible for all aspects of the Companys business in the region.
worked for Schroders, Citigroup and Arbuthnot Securities in a Prior to joining Actis, Ms Edozien was VP Strategic Planning and variety of positions both in the UK and overseas.
He is a trustee of Business Development for Pfizer Inc based in New York.
Mr Steel is Chairman of the Remuneration transferred to Nigeria in 2005 to run Pfizers businesses in East, Committee and a member of the Nomination, Audit, Group Risk West and Central Africa, before being appointed in 2008 as Chief and CSR Committees.
Following Mr Lewis retirement with effect Executive of the Equity Vehicle for Health in Africa, an investment from 19 September 2012, Mr Steel will be appointed Senior company focused on investing in private healthcare businesses Independent Director.
She has a background in strategic consulting, having spent seven years with McKinsey & Co, working principally The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
in the consumer products and healthcare sectors.
A US Nigerian Details of the letter of engagement relating to each are set out citizen, she was educated in the United States at Harvard University under the heading Service Contracts within the Report on and started her career in corporate finance at JP Morgan.
a Non-executive Director of Diamond Bank Plc, a company listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange.
Ms Edozien is a member of the Under the Companys present Articles of Association, all Directors Nomination, Remuneration, Audit, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Each of the Directors will retire immediately prior to the 2012 Annual General Simon Heale age 59 Meeting and, with the exception of Mr Lewis who is retiring from Mr Heale was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons the Board, each, being eligible, will offer himself or herself for Plc in January 2008 and is Chairman of the CSR Committee and a re-election at the meeting.
member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Group Risk Committees.
A chartered accountant, Mr Heale has worked in a The evaluation of the Board, as reported within the Corporate variety of senior positions for multi-national companies in America governance report, concluded that each of the Directors and the Far East and spent five years as Chief Executive of the continues to demonstrate effectiveness and commitment to his London Metal Exchange.
Mr Heale is a Non-executive Director of or her particular role and the re-election of each is accordingly The Morgan Crucible Company Ltd, Kazakhmys Plc and Marex recommended by the Board.
Spectron, Senior Non-executive Director of Coats Plc and a trustee and the treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Helen Owers age 49 Mrs Owers was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January 2012.
Until recently she was Chief Development Officer for Thomson Reuters Professional, with responsibility for the companys expansion in rapidly developing economies, and she continues to provide consultancy services to the Thomson Reuters group.
She played an important role in the development of the companys digital strategy and, as President of Global Businesses for Thomson Reuters Legal, she built new businesses in a number of emerging markets, balancing local consumer insights and needs with the globalisation of the business and key products.
Before joining Thomson Reuters, Mrs Owers worked as a consultant with Gemini Consulting, developing and implementing corporate and operational strategies for a number of consumer products clients.
Mrs Owers is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33
