Strategic pillars In order to achieve our vision our business model is based on our four strategic pillars.
Selected categories Selected geographies We operate in selected categories where our brands have a We operate in specific geographies through our own infrastructure strategic advantage and offer profitable growth opportunities.
In these geographies we tailor our channel We succeed through understanding local consumer needs, being approach for each category.
first to market and being unconstrained by big company bureaucracy.
Faster and continuous innovation will ensure our brands occupy leading positions in these categories.
Progress and priorities Progress and priorities The Group has this year consolidated all of its Beauty businesses We have grown our revenue this year through expansion in our into one global division.
This is a strategic move designed to core geographies and penetration into newer territories.
The main maximise the potential, both in the UK and internationally, of our core geographic highlights of this year are the continued growth portfolio of premium beauty brands.
The Beauty range has been of Cussons Baby in Indonesia see page 13, the robust UK extended through the Fudge brand acquisition see page 17.
The performance and the continued development of the Food and Washing and Bathing division within the UK has delivered robust Nutrition edible oils joint venture with PZ Wilmar see page 11. performance in a tough market through continued renovation of We have also continued to share category innovation across existing brands see page 15.
The launch of Mum & Me see page geographies, driven by our UK Washing and Bathing division and 15 demonstrates our product and range innovation.
Priorities our UK Personal Wash centre of excellence.
Newer territories have next year are to promote and extend the new brand ranges and been progressed mainly through the growth of the Beauty division continue the renovation process across the rest of the portfolio.
in the United States with St Tropez see page 16.
Priorities next year will be to continue to expand in our existing geographies through our core brands, to continue to share category best practice and innovation across geographies and further global expansion of the Beauty division.
PZ Cussons Plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Flexible supply chain CAN DO people We operate an ever evolving supply chain designed to service We work with people who share our unique CAN DO values.
We deliver innovative products to our customers CAN DO culture is the unifying strength that binds together our from various sources, quickly and efficiently.
Our supply chain diverse businesses around the world.
We are responsible, significantly contributes to Group profitability.
demanding and have a sense of fun!
Progress and priorities Progress and priorities Due to rising raw material costs and wage inflation in emerging Our CAN DO people continue to live our core values.
This year our markets, the Group has initiated a supply chain optimisation employees in Thailand showed incredible courage and adaptability project to ensure that its supply chain cost base remains throughout the flooding in October and enabled our operations to competitive.
The project will result in a reduction in the overhead continue in this very difficult period.
Further highlights include the footprint of the Groups manufacturing activities see page 9.
The Mum & Me development team delivering from first concept to current year has also seen continued investment in the expansion launch within 14 months see page 15, the Indonesian Baby Kids of the edible oils joint venture with PZ Wilmar see page 11 and range teams continuing to grow market share, revenue and improvements in the supply chain in Indonesia, where PZ Cussons profitability see page 13, and the Beauty division producing a distributes to over 10,000 islands, 150,000 traditional retailers and strong performance through the integration of four brand cultures, 750 independent supermarkets.
teams, systems and operations see page 16.
We will continue to develop the enablers to allow our people to further embody our CAN DO values.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 07
