& KhZ h E DK ORG ANICPLUS Through an Organic-Plus approach, suciently robust to delier significant Z YineY will build out its core into growth.
Each opportunity which emerges a leading technology-based soluons will be managed through a disciplined Group, applying the innoaon and process to idenfy and epand those capabilies of its people across a number which can generate sustainable returns of market sectors.
within YineY, and crystallise early alue from those which cannot.
The Group This will enable mature core businesses will target the best point at which to to win market share and eplore adjacent crystallise alue from its technologies markets, while nurturing a small number through selling patents or retaining IP, of newer capabilies to determine but outsourcing manufacture to reduce whether their business models are Core c90% oerheads and risk.
Eplore c8% Test for Value c2% yW KZ d d &KZ s h KZ D Z D Approimately 8% of YineYs Approimately 2% of YineYs Approimately 90% of YineYs reenue is reenue comes from fully reenue is in the Test for Value generated by proen businesses that hae commercial businesses in its category.
These are businesses sustainable compee adantage.
These are with proen technologies but that businesses are focused on relaely resilient businesses that hae a proen hae yet to proe commercial sectors in which the deep domain eperse technology and customers, iability.
In some cases, the of YineYs people is used to proide trusted but hae yet to proe that they technology is being deeloped for independent adice and soluons for customers can achiee significant scale.
These are the Groups core Eamples include Cyeillance, such as the E-y-Drie hybrid capabilies, mostly comprising h and h which deliers cyber intelligence electric drie transmission which erices, and operang largely in the aerospace, soluons principally for h is being deeloped as part of a defence and security markets.
They ehibit Fortune 500 customers, consorum for the technology relaely low risk characteriscs with low capital the Opta ense bre-opc deelopment phase of the h requirements and strong, predictable cash ows.
sensing business, and Training Armys Ground Combat Vehicle Much of the reenue is deried from longer term imulaon erices, which Program.
In other cases, the contracts, with known dates for renewal and is using COT technology to intellectual property is licensed re-tender.
meet customer requirements out to reduce implementaon YineYs core businesses retain and win market to reduce the cost of training.
and sales risks, with reenue share by applying their detailed understanding of dependent on third party sales The Group will selecely inest customer domains and their technical eperse channels.
Eamples include in these businesses to create a to proide support for customers on-going the GAJT GP an-jammer ia broader base of significant and, and deeloping needs.
Core businesses will NoAtel and MEW ia -3 TR.
therefore, core businesses for receie inestment on a sustainable basis as Oer the medium term, these the future.
these opportunies emerge and where eisng early-stage technologies will be eperse can be deployed in adjacent sectors and managed rigorously to resoluon geographic markets, from the proen plaorm of whether through inestment, h or h capability.
diestment, closure or tradeYineYs less mature businesses will be managed through unl project compleon.
through a alue pipeline with a range of new capabilies at arious stages of business readiness.
D D Z h erices Cyeillance A ARM h erices Internaonal ranges Energy from waste Global Products paral : Opta ense E-y-Drie TA ON Training simulaon GAJT Y-Nets Protece monitoring MEW A T Armor Roboc controller kits Cue im hA erices pace hA sensors YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
