B C & C C E O P B D The roles of Chairman and CEO are In accordance with the h Code, separate, and the Board has clearly QineQ connues each year to All newly-appointed Directors take part in arculated their responsibilies in wring.
ealuate the performance of the Board an inducon programme which is tailored The Chairman, Mark Ellio, is responsible and its Commiees.
to meet their specic needs in relaon to for the eece operaon of the Board informaon on the Group.
The inducon During the year, the Board appointed and for ensuring that all Directors are programme includes an inducon pack, Independent Audit imited to undertake enabled and encouraged to play their full which is refreshed to ensure that it contains a reiew of the eeceness of the part in its acies.
The CEO, eo Quinn, the most up-to-date informaon aailable.
Board and to facilitate a reiew by the is responsible to the Board for direcng In addion, a series of isits to Group Audit Commiee of its eeceness.
and promong the profitable operaon sites, giing the opportunity to meet the Independent Audit imited had no other and deelopment of the Group, consistent senior management, is proided to new connecon with the Company.
with enhancing long-term stakeholder Directors to enable them to gain a full For the Board reiew, Independent Audit alue.
This includes the day-to-day understanding of the business.
All Directors conducted interiews with all Board management of the Group: formulang, are encouraged to isit QineQs principal members and the Company ecretary communicang and eecung Group sites, and to meet a wide cross-secon of that were wide ranging and coered all strategy: and the implementaon employees including other members of aspects of Board performance.
The report of Board policies.
Training summarising their findings and detailing is also aailable on key business issues S I D recommendaons was discussed at the or deelopments in policy, regulaon or The enior Independent Non-eecue May Board meeng.
legislaon on an as-needed basis.
The Director is Michael Harper.
Michael is also Company proides business-wide computer The oerall conclusion was that the Board the Deputy Chairman of the Board.
He based training CBT for employees and the is eece in its fullment of its goernance replaced ir Daid ees who stepped down Board in relaon to compliance with its responsibilies.
The report idened areas as enior Independent Non-eecue business ethics, policies and pracces.
where improements could be made and Director and Deputy Chairman of the these are being incorporated into the Board during the year.
As part of the corporate planning process, Boards objeces for the coming year.
the Board has the opportunity to queson Michael seres as an addional point of They include: the Diisional Managing Directors and the contact for shareholders should they feel Eecue Directors on the formulaon of Achieing greater clarity about the role that their concerns are not being addressed the corporate plan at Diision leel and of the Board in relaon to risk strategy through the normal channels, and is the plans impact on Group strategy.
and the oersight of risk management: aailable to fellow Non-eecue Directors, Proiding more opportunies for the either indiidually or collecely, should Each of the Directors has access to the they wish to discuss maers of concern in Non-eecue Directors to spend me serices of the Company ecretary, and a forum that does not include the Chairman, in the business and meet members there is also an agreed procedure for the the Eecue Directors or the senior Directors to seek independent adice at of senior management: management of QineQ.
Ensuring that the informaon proided to the Board is fully in line with its needs I N D R D to allow tracking of progress against Of the current Directors of the Company, Rules concerning the appointment and strategic objeces and assessing the Board considers all the Non-eecue replacement of Directors of the Company performance, ed into both financial and Directors to be independent of QineQs are contained in the Arcles of Associaon.
non-financial driers of the business: and eecue management and free from Changes to the Arcles must be submied any business or other relaonships Ensuring eece oersight of the h to shareholders for approal.
According that could materially interfere with the business gien that it is held through to the Arcles of Associaon, all Directors eercise of their independent judgement.
are subject to elecon by shareholders at Notwithstanding that Colin Balmer has the first Annual General Meeng AGM The detailed,  reiew sered on the Board for more than nine following their appointment, and to reof the Audit Commiees eeceness years, the Board sll considers that he elecon thereaer at interals of no more was conducted through an in-depth webremains independent in character and than three years.
In line with best pracce based quesonnaire, with the results being judgement and the Board has found no reected in the h Code, howeer, the analysed and reported by Independent informaon or circumstances to lead it to Company requires each sering member of Audit.
A similar reiew looked closely at conclude otherwise.
Based on the aboe, the Board to be put forward for elecon or the Boards approach to risk goernance.
the Board considers that more than half its re-elecon on an annual basis at each AGM.
The reiews hae resulted in a number of members were independent Non-eecue changes in approach, including the seng Directors throughout the last financial year.
up of a Risk Commiee of the Board to help ensure an eece focus on risk monitoring and risk management oersight.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
