B C & CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION P P S QineQ Group plc is a public limited The policy of the Group is to agree terms of As at 31 March 2012, the Company had company, listed on the London Stock payment prior to commencing trade with a alloed and fully paid up share capital of Echange and incorporated in England and supplier and to abide by those terms based 660,476,373 ordinary shares of 1p each Wales with registered number 4586941. on the mely submission of sasfactory with an aggregate nominal alue of 6.6m inoices.
The Group has a policy of agreeing including shares held by employee share QineQ Group plc is the parent company of payment terms of not less than 60 days trusts and one Special Share with an a group whose principal acies during the with suppliers, ecept in eceponal aggregate nominal alue of 1. year were the supply of technical support, circumstances.
At 31 March 2012, the trade training, test and ealuaon, and knowDetails of the shares in issue during the payables of the Group represented 24 days how to customers in the global defence, financial year are shown in note 28 on of annual purchases 2011: 24 days.
Customers page 94. include goernment organisaons, such as P The rights of ordinary shareholders are the h MOD and the hS DoD and a range QineQ does not make polical donaons set out in the Arcles of Associaon.
of other goernment and commercial to pares as that term would be commonly The holders of ordinary shares are entled customers globally.
The legal denion of that to receie the Companys reports and term is, howeer, quite broad and may hae accounts, to aend and speak at General R the eect of coering a number of normal One of the Groups principal business Meengs of the Company, to eercise business acies, such as sponsorship ong rights in person or by appoinng streams is the proision of funded research of eents, that would not commonly be and deelopment R&D for customers.
The a proy, and to receie a diidend where perceied to be polical donaons, such declared or paid out of profits aailable Group also inests in the commercialisaon as sponsorship of eents.
of promising technologies across all areas for that purpose.
These may include legimate interacons The Special Share is held by HM in making MPs and others in the polical The majority of R&D-related ependiture Goernment through the Secretary of world aware of key industry issues and is incurred on behalf of customers as part State for Defence and it confers certain maers that aect QineQ, and that of specic funded research contracts.
R&D rights under the Arcles of Associaon make an important contribuon to their costs are included in the income statement which are detailed in note 28 on page 94. understanding of QineQ, the markets in and R&D income is reected within These include the right to require certain which it operates, and the work of their reenue.
In the financial year, the Group persons with a material interest in QineQ constuents.
recorded 346.3m 2011: 395.0m of to dispose of some or all of their ordinary total R&D-related ependiture, of which Charitable donaons during the year shares on the grounds of naonal security 331.1m 2011: 382.0m was customeror conict of interest.
The Special Share across the Group amounted to 108,400 funded work.
2011: 196,900. may only be held by and transferred to HM Goernment.
At any me the Special In the year to 31 March 2012, 15.2m Shareholder may require QineQ to redeem 2011: 13.0m of internally funded R&D the share at par and, if wound up, the was charged to the income statement.
Special Shareholder would be entled to be 0.3m 2011: 0.3m of late-stage repaid capital before other shareholders.
deelopment costs was capitalised Any ariaon of the rights aaching to the and 2.3m 2011: 2.2m of capitalised Special Share requires the wrien approal deelopment costs was amorsed in of the MOD.
In March 2012, the Company obtained MOD agreement to changes in the Special Shareholder rights which are subject to shareholder approal at the 2012 Annual General Meeng.
These include remoal of the MODs right to eto any transacon or acity and the introducon of a generic compliance system in alignment with that followed by other defence companies.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 OT, ER STATUTORY IN&ORMATION CONTINUED D The Company is party to a mul-currency & At the date of this Report, there is no Reoling Credit Facility, with a hS250m Informaon on the Groups financial risk contract or arrangement with the Company tranche and a 118m tranche, proided by management objeces and policies, and or any of its subsidiaries that is significant the Groups si global relaonship banks, its eposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, in relaon to the business of the Group as that epires on 4 February 2016. hnder the interest rate risk and foreign currency a whole in which a Director of the Company terms of the facility, if there is a change of risk are in note 26 on page 85. is materially interested.
control of the Company, any lender may B request, by not less than 60 days noce C The Company and its subsidiaries hae to the Company, that its commitment be The following significant agreements established branches in a number of cancelled and all outstanding amounts be contain proisions entling the dierent countries in which they operate: repaid to that lender at the epiry of such counterpares to require prior approal, their results are, howeer, not material noce period.
eercise terminaon, alteraon, or other to the Groups financial results.
On 6 December 2006, QineQ hS similar rights in the eent of a change of M control of the Company, or if the Company Holdings, Inc. formerly known as QineQ At 31 March 2012, the Group had been North America, Inc. as Borrower and ceases to be a h company: noed of the following shareholdings in the Company as Guarantor entered The Combined Aerial Target Serice accordance with the Vote Holder and Issuer into a Note Purchase Agreement to contract is a 20-year contract awarded Nocaon Rules, which form part of the issue hS125m 5.50% Senior Notes due Financial Serices Authoritys Disclosure to QineQ by the MOD on 14 December 6 December 2016. hnder the terms of the Rules and Transparency Rules: 2006.
The terms of this contract require agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to QineQ Limited to remain a h company retain in its capacity as Special Shareholder which is incorporated under the laws its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there % of issued of any part of the h, or an oerseas Number of share is a change of control of the Company: Shareholder shares capital company registered in the h, and that at and in either case where there has been a Arsan Partners 99,071,684 15.00 least 50% of the Board of Directors are h rang downgrade, or where there are no naonals.
The terms also contain change Ruane Cunni rated securies unless a rang of at least of control condions and restricted share inestment grade is not obtained within & Goldfarb, Inc. 74,366,090 11.26 transfer condions which require prior 90 days of the change of control, the Notes Fidelity must be oered for prepayment by the approal from HM Goernment if there Internaonal Ltd 34,816,074 5.27 Company within 21 days of the change is a material change in the ownership of Schroders 33,587,315 5.09 of control.
The prepayment date would QineQ Limiteds share capital, unless Inestec 33,160,928 5.02 be no later than 45 days aer the oer the change relates to shares listed on a Fidelity of prepayment by the Company.
regulated market material is dened Management and as being 10% or more of the share On 5 February 2009, QineQ hS Holdings, Research Company 32,986,143 4.99 capital.
In addion, there are restricons Inc. as Borrower and the Company as Norges Bank 19,850,508 3.01 on transfers of shares to persons from Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase countries appearing on the restricted list Agreement to issue hS62m 7.13% Senior Notes due 5 February 2016 and hS238m as issued by HM Goernment: At 22 May 2012, being the latest praccable date 7.62% Senior Notes due 5 February 2019.
The Long-Term Partnering Agreement prior to the issue of this report, the Company had hnder the terms of the agreement, if receied no nocaon of any further interests or LTPA is a 25-year contract, which QineQ of any changes in the interests shown aboe.
either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its Limited signed on 28 February 2003, capacity as Special Shareholder its Special to proide test, ealuaon and training Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is a change serices to the MOD.
This contract of control of the Company, the Notes must contains condions under which the prior be oered for prepayment within 21 days of approal of HM Goernment is required the change of control.
The prepayment date if the contractor, QineQ Limited, ceases would be no later than 45 days aer the to be a subsidiary of the QineQ Group, oer of prepayment by the Company.
ecept where such change in control is permied under the Shareholders Agreement to which the MOD is a party.
54 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 B C & A E S S At the Companys AGM held in August 2011, Equini Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as the shareholders passed resoluons which trustee in respect of all ordinary shares held authorised the Directors to allot releant by employees under the QineQ Group plc securies up to an aggregate nominal alue Share Incene Plan the Plan.
Equini of 4,403,174 2,201,587 pursuant only Share Plan Trustees Limited will send a Form to a rights issue, to disapply pre-empon of Direcon to all employees who hold rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary share shares under the Plan, and will ote on all capital and for the Company to purchase resoluons proposed at general meengs ordinary shares up to 10% of its ordinary in accordance with the instrucons share capital.
In circumstances where ordinary be laid before the 2012 AGM.
shares are held by the corporate sponsored nominee serice, Equini Corporate During the year, the Company proided Nominees Limited will send a Proy Form funding to the QineQ Group plc Employee to all shareholders using such corporate benefit Trust the Trust, which holds nominee serice, and will ote on all shares in connecon with its employee resoluons proposed at general meengs in share schemes, to make market purchases accordance with the instrucons receied.
of the Companys ordinary shares to coer future obligaons under outstanding shareA opon and other share-based awards.
PMG Audit Plc has epressed its Further details are disclosed in note 29 on willingness to connue in oce as auditor page 95.
As at 31 March 2012, the Trust held and a resoluon to reappoint them will be 11,672,209 ordinary shares of 1p each.
trustees of the Trust hae agreed to waie S their entlement to diidends payable on the shares held by the Trust, other than in The Directors who held oce at the date respect of deferred shares held on behalf of approal of this Directors report hae of parcipants in the Companys Deferred confirmed that, so far as the Directors Annual Bonus Plan.
Diidends receied by are aware, there is no releant audit the Trust in respect of the deferred shares informaon of which the Companys auditor are paid direct to the plan parcipants on is unaware: and the Directors hae taken receipt and are not retained in the Trust.
all the steps they reasonably should hae R taken as Directors to make themseles As outlined in note 28 on page 94, the aware of any releant audit informaon Special Share confers certain rights under and to establish that the Companys auditor the Companys Arcles of Associaon to is aware of that informaon.
require certain persons with an interest A ' M in QineQs shares that eceed certain The Companys AGM will be held on prescribed thresholds, to dispose of some Thursday 26 July 2012 at 1.00pm, at The or all of their ordinary shares on the Royal Berkshire Hotel, London Road, grounds of naonal security or conict Sunninghill, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5 0PP.
Details of the business to be proposed and A A oted on at the meeng is contained in Sae in respect of any ariaon to the rights the Noce of the Annual General Meeng, aaching to the Special Share, the Company which is sent to all shareholders and is has not adopted any special rules relang also published on the Companys website, to the amendment of the Companys www.
Arcles of Associaon, other than as By order of the Board proided under h corporate law.
Jon Messent A resoluon will be proposed at the 2012 C S AGM to amend the Companys Arcles of Cody Technology Park Associaon.
Details are contained in the Iely Road Noce of Meeng.
Farnborough Hampshire Gh14 0Ly 24 May 2012 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
