CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED A B C A 2011 D 2012 raising indebtedness: granng security oer Group assets: approing Group strategy and the corporate plan: approing the annual Commiee and interim report and accounts: approing Members B Audit Remuneraon Compliance significant inestment, bid, acquision Mark Ellio 9 9 6 6 4 4 and diestment transacons: approing Human Resources policies including Colin Balmer 8 9 3 3 5 6 3 4 pension arrangements : reiewing material Admiral ir James ligaon: and monitoring the oerall Burnell-Nugent 9 9 3 3 6 6 4 4 system of internal controls, including risk Noreen Doyle 8 9 5 5 6 6 2 2 management.
1 Michael Harper 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 O B Daid Mellors 9 9 1 1 The Board receies wrien reports from Paul Murray 9 9 5 5 3 3 4 4 the CEO and CFO each month, together eo Quinn 9 9 4 4 with a separate report on inestor relaons, Admiral Edmund P. which is prepared in consultaon with 2 Giambasani 2 3 1 2 QineQs brokers, and a report produced 3 Daid angsta by the Company ecretary on key legal and 4 regulatory issues that aect the Group.
It ir Daid ees 7 7 4 4 4 4 also considers reports from the Chairs of the Commiees of the Board at the first scheduled meeng aer the date each The composion of the commiee memberships was reiewed by the Board and updated Commiee meeng was held.
1 The CEOs monthly report addresses the Michael Harper was appointed to the Board on 22 Noember 2011.
2 key strategic iniaes which hae had an Admiral Edmund P. Giambasani resigned from the Board on 2 August 2011.
3 impact on the Group since the preious Daid angsta resigned from the Board on 18 April 2011.
Board meeng, with parcular focus on 4 ir Daid ees resigned from the Board on 31 January 2012. the progress of each of the Diisions.
Other key areas of focus include health, safety and enironmental maers: employee B D B and organisaonal issues: corporate The Board has regular scheduled meengs.
The Board operates through a responsibility: the status of key account Eight scheduled Board meengs and one comprehensie set of processes, which management customer relaonship Board meeng ia telephone conference define the schedule of maers to be iniaes: the pipeline of potenal bids, were held in the last financial year.
considered by the Board and its Commiees acquisions, disposals and inestments: Members of the Board were also inited during the annual business cycle, the leel and the post-acquision performance of to aend a dinner on the occasion of each of delegated authories both financial recently acquired businesses.
scheduled Board meeng, to assist with and non-financial aailable to Eecue The Board also receies updates from key the process of relaonship building and to Directors and other layers of management funconal areas on an as needed basis, on ensure that key strategic iniaes were in the business, and QineQs business issues such as human resources, treasury, discussed thoroughly.
ethics, risk management, and health, safety corporate responsibility, real estate, and enironmental processes.
The Board The table aboe shows the number of security, trade controls and pensions.
ey deotes one enre meeng each year to meengs of the Board and its Commiees issues considered by the Board in the past consider strategy and planning issues that held during the last financial year, and year include succession planning, which hae an impact on the Group, from which indiidual Directors aendance.
culminated in some changes to Board the corporate plan is generated.
It is also membership, strategy in parcular the regularly kept up to date on strategic issues eece operaon of the h erices, h throughout the year.
The Board has a erices and Global Products businesses clearly arculated set of maers which are and the Companys ongoing improement specifically resered to it for consideraon.
to business processes in response to the key These include reiewing the annual budgets: findings of the Haddon-Cae report.
38 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
