& & E E K&& Z Z s t KEd Eh & 2011 h aerage rate 1.56 h closing rate 1.60 h opening rate 1.52 The principal echange rate aecng the Group was the sterling to h dollar Credit risk arises when a counterparty Year-end employee numbers decreased echange rate.
fails to perform its obligaons.
The is eposed to credit risk on financial decline is principally a reecon of normal The Groups income and ependiture is instruments such as liquid assets, in-year arion as well as departures under largely seled in the funconal currency deriae assets and trade receiables.
the restructuring programme in the h of the releant Group enty, principally Credit risk is managed by inesng liquid and the h and the impact of Goernment sterling or the h dollar.
The Group has assets and acquiring deriaes from in-sourcing and the disposal of pectro in a policy in place to hedge all material high-credit quality financial instuons.
the h. transacon eposure at the point of Trade receiables are subject to credit commitment to the underlying transacon.
limits, control and approal procedures.
hncommied future transacons are not As a hlisted company, the Group is The nature of the Groups operaons rounely hedged.
The Group connues its required to adopt Eh endorsed IFR s and leads to concentraons of credit risk in pracce of not hedging income statement to comply with the Companies Act 2006. its trade receiables.
The majority of the translaon eposure.
To minimise the The eect of changes to financial reporng Groups credit risk is with the h and h impact of currency depreciaon of the standards in the year is disclosed in note 1 Goernments and is therefore considered net assets on its oerseas subsidiaries, the to the financial statements.
Group seeks to borrow in the currencies of those subsidiaries, but only to the etent that its gearing coenant within its The Group connually assesses the A descripon and consideraon of loan documentaon, as well as its facility balance of risk arising from the operaons the crical accounng esmates and headroom, are likely to remain comfortably undertaken against the insurance coer judgements made in preparing these within limits.
aailable for such acies and associated financial statements is set out in note 1 premiums payable for such coer.
A prudent d to the Group financial statements.
and consistent approach to risk retenon The central principle of YineYs ta and scope of coer is applied across the Daid Mellors strategy is to manage eece and cash ta & K Group.
The Group has a policy of selfrates whilst fully complying with releant insurance, through its cape insurance 24 May 2012 legislaon.
Ta is managed in alignment company, on the first layer of specic risks with the corporate strategy and with regard with insurance coer aboe these leels to YineYs core alue of integrity in all placed in the eternal market with thirdbusiness dealings.
These principles are party insurers.
applied in a responsible and transparent manner in pursuing the Groups ta strategy and in all dealings with ta authories around the world.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
