' K WZK h d INNOVATIVE AND FORWARDLOOKING Opta ense is the world leader in real-me hydraulic fracture monitoring distributed acousc sensing, a technology serices for hell on a worldwide basis.
that transforms up to 50km of standard hsing the same product plaorm, Opta ense telecoms bre into a listening deice with monitors and protects linear assets: it thousands of sensors along its length.
conerts already-installed telecoms assets Our technology is reshaping seeral into a sensor array that predicts and defeats global industries by proiding high-alue intrusions on thousands of kilometres of informaon that is otherwise unaailable.
Opta enses infrastructure security and monitoring systems are drien by the Opta enses adantage lies in our unique global need to address naonal concerns ability to process immediately and make oer energy security, such as protecng the sense of gigabits of data generated each Cairn India Mangala Deelopment Pipeline, second by this new bre-sensing technology.
which proides access to 75% of Indias Drawing on YineYs 50 years eperience renery capacity.
This recently completed in adanced sonar processing techniques, project analyses nearly 2.5 gigabits per Opta ense uses adanced acousc second from more than 63,000 acousc ngerprint recognion and behaioural sensors along 700km of pipeline across India.
analysis to proide customers with This makes it one of the largest single sensory decision-ready informaon.
This enables systems on the planet, and there are further preene or correce operaonal or projects of double the size in progress.
security acon to be taken in real-me.
Opta enses Technical and Data erices In the oil and gas sector, distributed Diision has an equally promising future in 01 acousc sensing is reoluonising oil well deeloping new market applicaons, such management.
A single array incorporated as rail monitoring, or nding addional alue into a well proides an improed image from the data collected from infrastructure of the sub-surface without the need for monitoring.
Its work on seeral h railroads, interenon improing safety, increasing for eample, has generated a wealth of recoery and reducing etracon costs.
informaon about earthquakes that could help proide early warnings of tremors in Demand for Opta ense oil eld serices the region.
Applicaons such as this will take is primarily drien by the unconenonal Opta ense towards realising its ambion shale oil and gas deelopments, to be The Earths Nerous ystem.
parcularly in the h, where Opta ense is breaking new ground by proiding 02 01 YineY is teamed with BAE ystems for one of the GCV programmes two Technology Deelopment prime contracts.
If the BAE ystems ehicle is successful, YineY will supply the transmissions for the producon phase.
02 Protecon against naigaon jamming in the fog of war is ital.
YineY and NoAtel hae produced the first single-unit GP an-jam antenna designed specifically for military land ehicles.
GAJT pronounced Gadget protects the satellite signals required to compute precise posion and ming.
At just under 290mm in diameter, GAJT proides an-jam performance comparable with much larger systems, but at a signicantly lower cost.
03 Our Y-Net system takes an innoae approach to protecng a wide range of taccal and lightly armoured ehicles from aack by rocket-propelled grenades RPGs.
Based on nets rather than tradional armour, it is etremely lightweight, ersale, low-cost and eece.
Y-Nets performance matches or eceeds competor bar armour soluons, and proides ehicles with RPG defeat protecon from all 03 angles, including oerhead.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 & K h h D Z : ogiscs Engineer, Opta ense YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
