CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW WORKING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS P 0 O 0 P 0 O Reducon in reportable h incidents New programmes such as the Acons Reducon in reportable h incidents to zero by 2014 peak ouder Than Words campaign and to zero by 2014 YineY Visible Ace eadership YVA were introduced page 31 Aainment of OH A 18001 in the h Assessment programme agreed with Aainment of OH A 18001 in the by 2013 our eternal auditors B I to commence h by 2013 in August 2012 page 31 10% reducon in h carbon emissions Oer 10% reducon in carbon emissions 15% reducon in h carbon emissions by 2012 and aained Carbon Trust tandard by 2015 to be deliered through re-cercaon in the h page 32 inestment projects, reducing business trael and improing employee engagement Connue to improe waste management Appointment of an Asset Management Connue to improe waste management in the h ead.
Mapping and re-eamining our in the h in relaon to the whole waste waste streams and re-baselining our hierarchy, not simply recycling data page 32 Connue to work proacely with Engaged with the MOD on sustainable Meet the MODs requirements for key customers and suppliers on sustainable procurement.
Worked with suppliers to suppliers to proide enironmental procurement issues help us map our carbon footprint beer.
informaon Included sustainability in our customer sasfacon quesonnaire page 33 ' completed a leadership restructure.
In the B At Board leel, the Compliance Commiee h, we hae an ongoing programme of We hae introduced a new code of oersees the Groups Corporate cercaon, including I O19001 for major conduct for employees which proides Responsibility and ustainability CR& sites and contracts.
guidelines on the way we do business.
strategy, and receies progress updates.
A clear commitment to ethical business S At an Eecue leel, the afety, Assurance pracce from senior leaders has been Our ision encompasses more than financial and ustainability Commiee, which communicated to employees through success.
We connue to focus on business reports into the Groups Eecue Team, a range of channels, for eample the ethics, our people, ecellent enironmental meets quarterly to reiew progress.
innoae ethical moment email messages stewardship and being a good neighbour.
The CR& strategy and programmes at YNA.
We hae appointed an Ethics C are oerseen by the Head of Corporate Ocer for each region h, YNA and We put customers first, by listening to, Responsibility and ustainability, who works Australia, and all employees connue to understanding and responding to their with the assurance and audit funcons to be required to complete annual business needs and epectaons.
Our approach monitor and ealuate programmes.
In addion, in-depth training has resulted in our customer sasfacon is proided for those employees inoled in B scores with the MOD increasing signicantly internaonal business.
Due diligence for the We respond promptly to changing moing from 17th to 3rd oer the past appointment of oerseas representaes legislaon by updang local policies, such two years.
Through our h customer is undertaken by independent third as health and safety, enironment, trade sasfacon programmes we hae now pares, such as TRACE.
All employees are controls, business ethics and equality, embedded sustainability issues to ensure encouraged to seek help and adice when taking regional dierences in stakeholder that we understand the needs of our dealing with ethical issues and all hae requirements and law into account.
In YNA, our NA A team receied access to an independent whistle-blower business management system is cered a greater than 90% sasfacon score in its line.
We monitor important data such as to I O9001.
Our Australian business is also first year on the major E C contract.
gis and hospitality and hae a clear policy I O9001 cered and has recently that we do not make polical donaons.
30 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
