CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS D E L Y D D D, N C 63 C E O 55 C & O 43 D C S I N A B A B A B D 67 Appointed Non-eecue Chairman Appointed Chief Eecue Ocer Appointed Chief Financial Ocer in March 2010: Non-eecue in Noember 2009. in August 2008.
A B Director between June 2009 and Appointed Non-eecue Director C C February 2010. in Noember 2011.
Appointed Member of the Compliance Member of the Compliance Deputy Chairman and enior C Commiee, Nominaons Commiee and ecurity Independent Non-eecue Chairman of the Nominaons Commiee and ecurity Commiee.
Commiee: Member of the Commiee.
S Compliance Commiee and C S Daid was preiously deputy Chief Remuneraon Commiee.
Member of the Audit Commiee, eo was Chief Eecue Ocer Financial Ocer of ogica plc.
He Compliance Commiee, S of fide a Rue plc between 2005 was also Chief Financial Ocer Nominaons Commiee, Mark is a Non-eecue Director and 2009.
He was preiously Chief of ogicas internaonal diision, Remuneraon Commiee of Reed Elseier Group plc and is Operang Ocer of Inensys plcs coering operaons in North and ecurity Commiee.
also Chairman of its Remuneraon Producon Management Diision America, Australia, the Middle Commiee, Reed Elseier NV and before that spent 16 years with East and Asia and, before that, was S and G4 plc.
He was preiously Honeywell Inc. in a ariety of senior the Group Financial Controller.
Michael was appointed Chairman General Manager of IBM Europe, management roles in the h A, His earlier eperience includes of BBA Aiaon plc in June 2007, Middle East and Africa and sat on Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
arious roles with CMG plc, Rio haing joined the Board in February IBMs Worldwide Management He was formerly a Non-eecue Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse.
He is also Chairman of the Council.
The Board considers that Director of Tomkins plc.
He is a member of the Instute of Vitec Group plc and of Ricardo plc.
Marks etensie eperience in the Chartered Accountants in England He was preiously a Director of technology serices sector, in the & Wales.
Williams plc where, at the me of h and Europe, together with his the demerger in 2000, he became eposure to a ariety of industry Chairman of idde plc.
The Board sectors on the boards of FT E listed considers that Michaels wealth companies, is a aluable asset to the of operaonal and corporate Group in terms of leadership and of eperience will enable him to addressing the strategic issues that make a significant contribuon aect the Group.
34 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 B C & C B N D A S : BN P D N D 65 N D 63 N D 62 N D 50 A B A B A B A B Appointed Non-eecue Director Appointed Non-eecue Director Appointed Non-eecue Director Appointed Non-eecue Director in February 2003. in October 2005. in April 2010. in October 2010.
C C C C Chairman of the Compliance Chairman of the Remuneraon Member of the Audit Commiee, Chairman of the Audit Commiee: Commiee and ecurity Commiee: Commiee: Member of the Audit Compliance Commiee, Member of the Compliance Member of the Audit Commiee, Commiee, Compliance Commiee Remuneraon Commiee, Commiee, Nominaons Nominaons Commiee and and Nominaons Commiee.
Nominaons Commiee and Commiee, Remuneraon Remuneraon Commiee.
S Noreen is a member of the Board S Colin is currently on the Board of of Credit uisse Group urich ir James commanded the aircra S the Royal Mint and Chair of its Audit and its h regulated subsidiaries.
carrier HM Inincible and three Paul is currently a Non-eecue Commiee.
He has held senior posts he is a Non-eecue Director other ships and submarines during Director and Audit Commiee Chair in Goernment, including Managing of Newmont Mining Corporaon a 37-year career in the Royal Nay at Royal Mail Holdings plc.
He is also Director of the Cabinet Oce, from Dener, where she is Chair of the that culminated in his appointment a Director of Naked Energy td and 2003 unl his rerement in 2006.
Audit Commiee, and Ream plc, as Commander-in-Chief Fleet.
nowledge Peers plc and a Trustee He was preiously Finance Director where she is Chair of the Finance Between operaonal dues he of Pilotlight.
He was preiously of the MOD, and was responsible Commiee.
he was preiously held seeral posions at the enior Independent Director of for QineQs priasaon.
First Vice President of the European MOD and gained cross-Whitehall Taylor Nelson ofres plc, a NonNotwithstanding that Colin has Bank for Reconstrucon and eperience while on secondment to eecue Director of Thomson A sered on the Board for more than Deelopment EBRD.
The Board considers and Tangent Communicaons plc, nine years, the Board sll considers she worked in corporate finance that ir James eperse in the and has also been Group Finance that he remains independent in and leeraged nancing at Bankers Goernment contracng domain, Director of Carlton Communicaons character and judgement.
Further, Trust Company now Deutsche parcularly with the h MOD and plc and A MO plc.
The Board the Board considers that Colins Bank.
The Board considers that HM Treasury, is highly beneficial considers that Paul brings a broad etensie knowledge of the Noreens etensie internaonal in the contet of QineQs range of eperience in finance and deelopment of QineQ, together business eperience, parcularly in Goernment-sourced operaons.
corporate goernance from a crosswith his in-depth understanding corporate finance, risk management secon of industries, all of which of the working of Goernment, and banking, is of significant benefit leerage technology.
connue to proide a unique to the Board.
insight into the issues Goernment faces in deliering its procurement objeces and in partnering with industry suppliers.
C S ' ' C 48 A Appointed as Company ecretary and Group General Counsel in January 2011.
S Jon joined QineQ from Chloride Group plc where he held a similar role.
He has a background in legal priate pracce as well as general counsel and company secretarial eperience in other FT E250 companies.
: D YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
