CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED C C C B The Compliance Commiee is chaired by The Commiee connues to monitor the This year, the Commiee connued to Colin Balmer.
The Commiees primary Compliance Regime, which is designed oersee health, safety and enironment, purpose is to monitor adherence to the to gie MOD customers confidence that trade controls, ethics and security, through MOD Compliance Regime.
In addion, it QineQ is able to proide imparal adice quarterly reports from the heads of those keeps a watching brief oer those areas during any compee ealuaon of a funcons in the business.
A summary of risk, including security, trade controls, procurement where it wishes to operate of the key focus and acies of the ethics, corporate social responsibility on both the buy and the supply sides.
health, safety and enironment and ethics and health, safety and enironment funcons is set out in the Corporate In designing the Compliance Regime, where the principal impact is not financial.
Responsibility and ustainability Reiew the MOD and QineQ sought to achiee All the other members of the Board are on pages 30 to 33. a balance between meeng the needs members of the Commiee.
ir Daid ees of the procurement customers in the In March 2012, the Company obtained was Chairman of the Commiee unl his MOD principally Defence Equipment MOD agreement to changes in the pecial departure in January 2012.
The Commiee and upport and the need to allow hareholder rights and these are subject meets as necessary, although normally QineQ the eibility to eploit research to shareholder approal at the 2012 not less than four mes a year.
During into the supply chain and pursue its Annual General Meeng.
These include the financial year ended 31 March 2012, planned commercial acies, without remoal of the MODs right to eto any the Compliance Commiee met on compromising the defence or security transacon or acity and the introducon four occasions.
interests of the h. Oersight of the of a generic compliance system in This past year the Commiee has focused operaon of the regime is proided alignment with that followed by other on ethics, the QNA Proy Regime, health, by the Compliance Commiee.
The Company will safety and the enironment, trade connue with rigorous management, The MOD reiews the operaon and controls, security, and trials inoling of potenal conicts of interest while eeceness of the Compliance Regime human subjects that fall within the scope ensuring that proporonate goernance through its right to hae an obserer of the Helsinki Protocol.
In addion, the is maintained by the Board.
at the Compliance Commiee meengs.
Commiee is proiding oersight for 12 The Board nominates two senior project areas that hae been established eecues to act as Compliance to address the recommendaons of the Implementaon Director and Compliance ir Robert Nelson Report, which was Audit Director.
It receies a bi-annual completed as a result of the Haddonreport on the compliance areas that it Cae Reiew.
These projects include monitors from the internal audit funcon.
specic acies relang to aerospace The Commiee addresses any issues assurances and safety work, in addion to that would arise if QineQ were to fail the goernance of adice serices, general to comply with the requirements of the projects seeking to simplify QineQs regime.
No breaches were noted during Competency and Assurance Frameworks, the year.
and the processes of its Business Management ystem.
40 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
