B C & C R C The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside business interests before they are entered into.
This enables prior assessment of any conict, or potenal conict, of interest and any impact on me commitment.
An annual reiew of all eternal interests is carried out by the Board.
D tatements eplaining the Directors responsibilies for preparing the Groups annual report and financial statements and N D the auditors responsibilies for reporng on those statements are on pages 56 and 57.
The Remuneraon Commiee is chaired The Commiee has reiewed the by Noreen Doyle.
The Commiee sets remuneraon and rewards of the O D remuneraon and incenes for Eecue Companys Eecue Directors and senior Details of Eecue Directors serice Directors and approes and monitors management and has processes in place contracts and the Non-eecue remuneraon and incenes for senior to ensure that: Directors leers of appointment are set eecues of the Group.
The other out in the Report of the Remuneraon The leel of reward gien to the Commiee members are Colin Balmer, Commiee on pages 48 and 49.
Copies of Eecue Directors and senior Admiral ir James Burnell-Nugent, Mark Directors serice contracts and leers of management is stretching and designed Ellio, Michael Harper and Paul Murray.
appointment will be aailable for inspecon to promote the long-term success of the The Commiee meets as necessary, at the Companys AGM.
Company: although normally at least three mes O Remuneraon incenes remain a year.
During the financial year ended Responsibility for the day-to-day management consistent with the Companys risk 31 March 2012, it met on si occasions.
of the Groups acies, with the ecepon of management policies and systems.
Although not members of the Commiee, QineQs North American operaons which the CEO, the HR Director and the Group No Eecue Director or employee of are managed through the Proy Board, as Head of Reward normally aend meengs QineQ is permied to be present or described in the secon on page 43 headed to proide informaon and adice.
parcipate in the Commiees discussions Management and control of h subsidiaries, about their own remuneraon.
During the year, the Commiee receied is conducted through the QineQ Eecue adice from its appointed independent Further informaon on the acies of Team QET.
The QET comprises the Group adisors, Towers Watson, who also the Remuneraon Commiee during the CEO, Group CFO, funconal directors and proided market data and adice to last financial year is set out in the Report the managing directors of each of the three help the Commiee determine whether of the Remuneraon Commiee on pages h business diisions.
The QET meets on a performance targets had been met.
44 to 52. monthly basis, and receies weekly updates Towers Watson also proided other on key operaonal issues by way of preconsulng serices during the year to scheduled conference calls.
The acies QineQ, but did not proide adice on of the QET are supplemented by the QNA eecue remuneraon maers other Board and its Eecue Management Team.
Global Products teering Commiee has been formed to accelerate the deelopment of the Global Products business, its products, and its eploitaon of QineQs intellectual property.
B C The Board has established e principal Commiees: the Audit Commiee, the Remuneraon Commiee, the Nominaons Commiee, the Compliance Commiee and the ecurity Commiee.
Each operates within wrien terms of reference approed by the Board, details of which are set out in the Inestor Relaons secon of the website, www.
The Chairmen of the Board Commiees report on the key issues discussed, and decisions taken, at the first meeng of the Board aer the releant Commiee meeng.
Details of each of these Commiees are summarised in the following pages.
Following changes in Directors during the year, the composion of the Commiee memberships was reiewed and updated by the Board at its meeng in Noember 2011.
Details of each Commiee members aendance at Commiee meengs are set out in the table on page 38.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
