The Company confirms powers as Directors, hae the power under The Groups acies, combined with the that it will send the AGM Noce and the proy arrangements to eercise all factors that are likely to aect its future releant documentaon to all shareholders prerogaes of share ownership of QNA.
deelopment and performance, are set at least 20 working days before the date of The proy holders hae a duciary duty, out in the CEOs tatement on pages 4 the AGM.
and agree, to perform their role in the best to 6.
The CFOs Reiew on pages 17 to 22 interests of shareholders, and in a manner For those shareholders who hae elected sets out details on the financial posion consistent with the naonal security to receie communicaons electronically, of the Group, the cash ows, commied interests of the h. noce is gien of the aailability of borrowing facilies, liquidity and the documents on the inestor relaons secon QineQ Group plc does not hae any Groups policies and processes for managing of the Groups website.
All shareholders representaon on the boards of the its capital and financial risks.
Note 26 to the will be entled to ote on the resoluons subsidiaries coered by the proy financial statements also proides details put to the AGM and, to ensure that all otes agreement and does not hae the right to of the Groups hedging acies, financial are counted, a poll will be taken on all the aend board meengs.
QineQ Group plc instruments, and its eposure to liquidity resoluons in the Noce of Meeng.
The may not remoe the proy holders other and credit risk.
results of the otes on the resoluons will than for acts of gross negligence or wilful The market condions in which the Group be published on the Groups website.
misconduct or for breach of the proy operates hae been, and are epected to agreement with the consent of the h Responsibility for maintaining regular connue to be, challenging as spending Defense ecurity erice.
communicaons with shareholders rests from the Groups key customers in its with the Eecue Team, led by the CEO, In terms of the power to goern, the proy primary markets in the h and h remains assisted by an inestor relaons funcon.
agreement ests certain powers solely with under pressure.
Despite these challenges, The Board is informed on a regular basis the proy holders and certain powers solely the Directors beliee that the Group is well of key shareholder issues, including share with QineQ.
For eample, QineQ can, posioned to manage its oerall business price performance, the composion of the at its sole discreon, direct the proy risks successfully.
shareholder register and City epectaons.
holders to: Aer making the appropriate enquiries, During the coming year, the Company will ell or dispose of, in any manner, capital including a reiew of the latest two-year be looking to connue to improe the assets or the business of QNA: budget, the Directors hae a reasonable quality of its engagement with shareholders Pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of epectaon that the Group has adequate and to eplore with inestors any addional QNA for purposes other than obtaining resources to connue in operaonal praccal means by which it can gie eect working capital or funds for capital eistence for the foreseeable future.
to the requirements of the Financial improements: Consequently, the Annual Report and Reporng Councils h tewardship Merge, consolidate, reorganise or Accounts hae been prepared on a going Code for instuonal inestors, and dissole QNA: concern basis.
File or make any peon under the C Details of the Companys share capital, federal bankruptcy laws or similar The Company aaches significant which are required to be disclosed in law or statute of any state or any importance to the eeceness of its accordance with rule 7.2.
6 of the F As foreign country.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and the The proy holders cannot carry out any During the last financial year, the Directors powers in relaon to issuing and of the aboe without QineQs epress Company maintained regular dialogue buying back shares can be found on pages approal.
hnlike minority interest holders with instuonal shareholders and the 53 to 55 in the Other tatutory Informaon with protece eto rights, QineQ can financial community, which included secon of this Annual Report.
unilaterally require the aboe to be carried presentaons of the full-year and interim D out and these are, therefore, considered results, including inestor road shows held US to be to significant parcipae features.
in the h and h, and regular meengs with QineQs principal h subsidiaries are In addion, QineQ can require the major shareholders and industry analysts.
currently required by the h Naonal payment of diidends, and the pay-down In addion, each member of the Board Industrial ecurity Program to maintain of parent company loans, from QNA.
aended the Companys AGM in August facility security clearances and to be 2011 and was aailable to take quesons.
The pares are presently in the process insulated from foreign ownership, control The Chairman, the enior Independent of reising and modernising the proy or influence.
To comply with these Director and Non-eecue Directors make agreement in order that it connues to requirements, QineQ North America, themseles aailable to meet shareholders best reect the releant shareholder Inc. QNA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of as required.
All shareholders and potenal and security interests of the pares.
QineQ in the h and the holding company shareholders can gain access to the Annual for the substane part of QineQs North Report, presentaons to inestors and American operaons, and the h DoD, other significant informaon about hae entered into a proy agreement that QineQ on the Companys website, regulates the ownership, management and www.
Pursuant Holders of ordinary shares may aend the to this proy agreement, QineQ has Companys AGM at which the Company appointed four h cizens Peter Marino, highlights key business deelopments Riley Mison, John Currier and Vince during the year and at which shareholders Vio, who hold the requisite h security hae an opportunity to ask quesons.
clearances, as proy holders to eercise The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneraon, the ong rights of QNAs shares in the h Nominaons, Compliance and ecurity subsidiaries.
The proy holders are also Commiees are aailable at that meeng appointed as Directors of the releant to answer any quesons on the work of h subsidiaries and, in addion to their YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
