In partnership with host countries Randgold operates in countries where a shortage of economic opportunity and basic health and education means the company can make a significant contribution to state revenues, socio-economic development and quality-of-life.
Economic development Mining can provide a fundamental contribution to economic growth and we share a desire to rise with our hosts.
Our mines joint ownership structures, alongside our in numbers payment of taxes, duties and royalties, mean that host states normally receive the single largest portion of revenues generated from each mine.
Above and beyond US$794 million total these payments, our operations create jobs and prosperity, contribute to infrastructure economic value developments and help foster local businesses.
created via taxes, salaries, procurement These contributions are an integral part of our business strategy.
By being a valued and other payments in corporate citizen and a partner in development, we form strong relationships with key 2012, a 21% increase stakeholders and guarantee our social licence to operate over the longer term.
on 2011 US$226.1 million revenue created for host states, a 35% increase on 2011 US$537 million spent on Africa-based suppliers On a group consolidated basis.
A better border helps the bottom line Much of the fuel and other materials required at Randgolds Loulo-Gounkoto complex in Mali is transported overland from Dakar in Senegal, a distance of around 700 kilometres.
Until recently, this was a circuitous journey along poorly maintained roads and via a badly-positioned border crossing.
To address this issue, Randgold worked closely during 2012 with the Malian and Senegalese governments and other stakeholders to help fund a new permanent border crossing at Mahinamine, around 30 kilometres from Loulo-Gounkoto.
The new crossing will reduce the distance that our supplies need to travel by around 150 kilometres, as well as reducing the time taken to cross the border and will also mean a journey almost exclusively on tar road rather than needing to travel on dust roads as before.
This will considerably reduce the journey time for suppliers.
The total cost of building the new border crossing of around US$1.2 million is being shared across stakeholders including the Japanese government and NEPAD The New Partnership for Africas Development.
By working in partnership with others, Randgold is pleased to have contributed not only to a more efficient supply line to its mines but to a transformative piece of new infrastructure in the region.
Mahinamine bridge on the Mali-Senegal border.
