Next step We are proud of the strong relationships we have built with locallyIn the eld of human rights, our ambition is to ensure 100% of grievances with human rights elements at Kibali are settled affected communities at all our mine sites and nurturing and growing amicably and we aim to roll out a group-wide programme to those relationships will require ongoing activity at all sites in 2013. ensure implementation of our human rights policy is monitored Next year will see a major milestone at Kibali with the completion of and measured.
the resettlement and the expected formation of the CDC.
At Morila, the challenge of rolling out the agribusiness expansions will need to be embraced and pushed forward During 2013, we will continue to build on our public health with passion and expertise see case study below, while, as programmes.
In particular, the number of HIV voluntary tests still ever, we will need to handle the community issues affected remains relatively low and we are committed to continue to nd by new exploration in places such as Baboto, with care and ways to encourage more people to undertake testing in our clinics.
New markets hatch from Morila closure Dansina Kone and Souleymane Mariko, former labourers at the Morila mine, have their future employment assured.
They have taken advantage of CAMIDE a micronance scheme engaged by Randgold as part of the Morila closure plans, and set up a store selling eggs in the local village of Sanso.
They call the shop Diguiya which in the local Bambara language means to have trust.
Poultry farmed on the Morila mine site as part of closure plans is sold wholesale to Diguiya, and the shop sells the eggs on to the public.
Demand is high due to a shortage of fresh eggs in the area and the two entrepreneurs are close to paying back their initial one year loan from CAMIDE.
Dansina says: We called it Local entrepreneur Dansina Kone and a customer at Diguiya, the egg shop Diguiya because I have trust that the shop will help me support which owes its existence to Morilas agribusiness strategy.
my eight children and grow into new activities.
When we have paid back our first loan, we want to get a second loan to extend the shop and sell items like honey, rice and sh.
Learning lessons The strategy has not been without its problems.
An initial Leaving behind a legacy of positive change plan for agriculture along a main water pipe had to be shelved After more than a decade of production, the Morila mine is now because of community land ownership issues and some pilots, approaching the end of its life and Randgold is determined such as one in animal husbandry, did not deliver the necessary to leave behind a positive legacy.
At the heart of this plan is outcomes.
This is the first major mine closure for Randgold an agribusiness strategy which in 2012 completed a series of and our approach has been to ensure lessons are learnt and pilots and entered an ambitious phase to grow four sectors: can contribute to better closure planning at our other mines.
poultry, sh farming, honey making and mango production At Kibali, there are already profit-making vegetable farms and for export.
The business plan at Morila in the next few years piggeries even though the mine is not yet operational.
will see poultry farming expand to 10 000 chickens, plant over 7 000 mango trees, establish 1 000 beehives, and see sh Morila closure coordinator Nouhoum Diakite explains that, farms producing up to 1.5 tonnes of Tilapia sh per month.
Legacy planning should have been enacted more vigorously Between 2013 and 2017, these four sectors are expected to at an earlier stage, but whats important is that we now produce total revenue of more than US$6 million.
have a business plan in place and the same mentality about succeeding in agribusiness as with gold.
We are also working in partnership with NGO Swiss Contact to train the communities in advanced agricultural techniques.
The Nouhoum continues: The most important part of our plan has plan is supported by micronance institution CAMIDE, funded been to integrate the communities into what we are doing.
by Randgold, which has supported 44 projects like Diguiya For example, weve trained community members to build since 2010, extending loans worth 25 million CFA US$50 000 hives and harvest the honey, and with shops like Diguiya were and achieving a 96% reimbursement rate.
creating a thriving market for the produce.
