Executives proles Tahirou Ballo Philip Pretorius Mine manager Gounkoto Group human resources executive A mining economist engineer with 18 years experience, mainly in Mali.
Started Joined Randgold in 2008, bringing with him 23 years human resources experience with the last 17 years spent dealing exclusively with the West his professional mining experience as short planner with BHP at Syama mine African gold mining industry.
With a postgraduate diploma in management and served as mining superintendent from 1999 for Randgold at Syama.
In practice, he has been involved in establishing various gold mining projects in 2010, he was promoted to operations manager for Randgold at Loulo mine West Africa.
and then to Gounkoto general manager in 2011.
Chris Prinsloo Chiaka Berthe Group GM commercial and supply chain GM Loulo Qualied as a chartered secretary and has 39 years experience in the mining A graduate of the Malian National School of Engineering with a masters degree industry including finance, capital projects, administration and supply chain in geological engineering, he has more than 16 years experience in the industry.
Appointed as commercial manager in 2002, responsible for He was appointed general manager of the Loulo-Gounkoto mining complex group accounting, supply chain management plus the risk management and in 2012.
He is a member of the Australian Institute of Mine and Metallurgy insurance portfolio.
AusIMM and the Geostatistical Association of South Africa GASA.
Rod Quick Sebastiaan Bock Group GM evaluation Group corporate finance manager A geologist with 19 years experience in the gold mining industry, he joined Responsible for the management of the groups financial operations functions Randgold in 1996.
He has been involved in the exploration, evaluation and and the corporate finance management within the group.
Hes a chartered production phases of all projects since Morila.
Having served as the Somilo accountant with 12 years experience and has been with the group for five resource manager since 2006, he was given his new responsibilities for all project years.
development and evaluation in 2009 and has been responsible for the Gounkoto and Kibali feasibility studies.
Luiz Correia GM Tongon Mahamadou Sam Samak Group regional manager West Africa A metallurgist with 27 years experience in the gold mining industry, he has A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Mahamadou was a BSc Eng as well as a BCom degree.
He joined Randgold in 2005 and instrumental in writing the Malian mining legislation.
He is the resident executive in 2006 was appointed operations manager responsible for the mining, manager in Mali and is responsible for government liaison and legal counsel for planning, processing, maintenance and engineering functions at Loulo.
was appointed to manage Tongon in 2010.
Ngolo Sanogo Ted fide Villiers GM Mali Group GM mining Has a masters degree in economics from the National School of Administration A mining engineer, he has extensive experience in gold and base metal of Bamako as well as several management, accounting and financial mining operations, mining contracting and consulting.
Qualied as an auditor in 1992 before joining BHP Mali in 1995. in December 2010, with executive responsibility for the groups rapidly Appointed materials manager in 1998 and management accountant in 2001 at expanding mining operations and has been tasked with ensuring a consistent the Syama mine.
Following the sale of Somisy SA in 2004, he joined Randgold production stream.
He was appointed Mali general manager in March 2009.
Tania fide Welzim Group financial manager John Steele Tania was appointed group financial manager in April 2009 having served Technical and capital projects executive previously as group financial controller.
She is a chartered accountant with Responsible for the successful construction and commissioning of Randgolds 14 years experience in finance including 12 years in the mining industry.
She Morila, Loulo, Tongon and Gounkoto mines and currently leads the team is responsible for the groups technical financial reporting and procedures.
developing the new Kibali mine in the DRC.
As well as heading the capital projects function within Randgold, he continues to provide operational oversight as well as supplying engineering due diligence expertise to the group.
Paul Gillot Group metallurgist and deputy GM capital projects Samba Toure Paul has 23 years operational and management experience in the mining GM operations West Africa industry, working in various process related management roles.
He Joined the Morila gold mine in 2000 and held various responsibilities, subsequently moved into the projects arena, with the recent commissioning culminating in the appointment in 2007 as the mine chief executive.
Responsible for all the groups metallurgical activities, his leadership, the mine was run successfully, delivering on its promises.
In at the operating mines as well as the projects.
2010, promoted to group operations GM for West Africa.
With the experience gained in mining during the past 12 years, he is destined to continue adding Paul Harbidge value to the companys increasing operations portfolio in West Africa.
Group GM exploration A geologist with over 20 years experience, mainly in Africa, having Lois Wark previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Ashanti Goldelds, Group GM corporate communications he joined Randgold in 2001.
He was appointed group exploration manager A member of the Randgold team since its inception who assumed in 2004. management of the cartography department in 1995, she is responsible for the coordination of the groups communications and investor relations Bill Houston programmes.
She holds a diploma in land surveying: Cadastral and Group GM human capital topographical.
Bill has a masters degree in human resources management and 32 years experience in HR and organisational development.
Joined Randgold in Louis Watum 1992 as group training and development manager, and headed the group GM Kibali gold project and country manager DRC human resources function from 1996 to 2008, when he moved to his A metallurgist with 23 years experience in base metals, coal and gold current position.
processing, he has an MSc in Chemical Engineering.
He joined Randgold in 2009 and was appointed GM and country manager responsible for: building and leading the Kibali team: communicating with the DRC government and Willem Jacobs local authorities: directing and managing Kibali business: and delivering on GM operations Central and East Africa strategies, objectives and the Kibali business plan.
With a BPL Hons and DCom, he is a seasoned executive.
Having served as a director of listed and private companies in the areas of mining, Charles Wells engineering and manufacturing in Southern, Central and Eastern Africa Group GM sustainability for the past 17 years, he joined the group in January 2010.
Has an MSc in environmental biotechnology and 15 years experience in environmental management, predominantly within mining and heavy Adama Kone industries.
Having previously worked for Randgold as the environmental GM Morila officer during the Morila construction, he has more recently managed the Joined Randgold in 1996, responsible for the grade control section at the environmental and social impact assessments ESIA for Tongon, Gounkoto Syama gold mine.
In 2000, he moved to the Morila mine where he served in and Kibali as an independent environmental consultant before rejoining the various positions in the mineral resources department, becoming manager group in 2012. of that department in 2006.
Prior to joining Randgold, he worked as a eld geologist for BHP Minerals Exploration, following the completion of a Martin Welsh geological degree at the National School of Engineers in 1991.
General counsel and secretary After qualifying as a solicitor in Scotland in 1998, he gained his experience Victor Mateld working in the City of London with Dickson Minto WS and Linklaters LLP Group GM corporate finance acting on numerous international corporate and finance transactions.
He A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance manager in previously acted for Randgold while in private practice before joining the 2001.
Prior to that he served as financial manager of the Syama mine and of company in 2011 to assist the companys legal and administrative function the Morila project.
and assumed the general counsel and company secretary position in 2012.
