Infrastructure for growth Our capital investments are primarily focused on the exploration Last year, we invested in power substations and transmission for and extraction of gold.
Yet as our mines are usually located lines, road improvement schemes, a major hydropower station in in remote areas, they often necessitate the provision of new the DRC and a new border crossing between Mali and Senegal infrastructure, in particular roads and key utilities.
Randgold see case study on page 84.
Not only are these critical to the often partners with governments to build such infrastructure.
successful operation of our mines, they have been designed to provide real benets to local communities and to the countries in which we operate.
Growing together with local suppliers Groupe EGTF is a construction company based in Malis capital town of Korhogo in Cte dIvoire.
Over the years, EGTF has built Bamako.
It started working with Randgold in 1996 when it housing to accommodate more than 2 500 people for Randgold.
numbered just five people and had an annual turnover of around Randgold also facilitated training for Diakaridia and his team.
Today EGTF is Malis leading construction company in example, training to improve the governance and management of the mining industry, working across West Africa, employing more the business, and improving their expertise in specic construction than 600 people and with a turnover exceeding 6.7 million.
Diakaridia says: Randgold and its subcontractors have shared their knowhow and experience The companys founder, former labourer Diakaridia Traore, says that with us and thanks to that we have been able to develop Randgold has been the main catalyst for this growth.
He explains: expertise in several complex elds of construction techniques and management.
He continued: Theyve also given us the ability to We started working together at Malis Syama gold mine and since work in difficult political environments.
For instance, we started then we have done building work at Morila, Loulo, Tongon and working at the Tongon mine in Cte dIvoire while the country was Gounkoto.
Among other projects, the company has built housing facing its post-electoral crisis.
for Randgolds employees, private homes for relocated villagers as well as classrooms and a mosque for local villagers.
EGTF has also He concludes: The trust Randgold puts in us, the repeat business undertaken civil engineering works including a 400 metre reinforced and the training have allowed our company to grow.
We now have concrete dam for Loulo over the Falm River and a 65 kilometre substantial capital assets, ongoing work in Mali, Cte dIvoire and high voltage powerline between Randgolds Tongon mine and the Ghana and future prospects across West and Central Africa.
Supply and expand Randgolds procurement policy explicitly strives to build up local Where local contractors are not able to meet the quality supply chains.
Much of our total spend on service providers standards we require, we are then open to facilitating training goes to companies based in host countries.
and mentoring support in order to build local capacity.
For example, we invited Royal Dutch Shell to train Malian company One of Randgolds oldest partnerships is with CSTTAO or Ben&Co Holdings on transportation and storage several years AFRILOG who started in 1995 as our West African transporter ago and the latter has become not only our main supplier of of choice and progressed to where, today, they are responsible hydrocarbons but also one of the biggest private companies for sourcing, procuring, freight and transport of consumables in West Africa.
and spares for our operations in West Africa, from warehouse to warehouse.
Together with our partners we had a combined By prioritising local procurement where possible, Randgold vision to build a supply chain company capable of servicing the benets from contractors that have better availability, offer mining industry and today AFRILOG has achieved this vision better value and who tend to be more motivated.
The benets with ofces in South Africa, Mali, Senegal and Cte dIvoire.
of this strategy were vividly demonstrated in the weeks after the coup in Mali in March last year.
That event led to some foreign With our entry into East and Central Africa, we decided to stick to suppliers leaving the country, with consequent impacts on the the formula of nding a local partner and developing a long term rms that relied on them.
In this regard, we identied Freight Forwarders of was unaffected in this period as our largely local supply chain Kenya as a possible partner and have started building the logistics chain with them for Kibali.
To date they have moved all the materials is based in the country itself and was both able and willing to and equipment from the port of Mombasa to site without incident.
operate and work with us throughout this time.
