Air quality Our policies Our performance In order to manage dust pollution we have built an extensive Randgolds main priority in relation to air quality is the management monitoring programme comprised of dust buckets located of dust pollution or fallout.
Dust is generated from roads, TSFs, across the mining right areas as well as in neighbouring waste rock dumps, the crushers and the plant and levels of dust settlements.
Particulate emissions are monitored, recorded pollution can be exacerbated by the generally dry conditions in and reported to the relevant authorities.
West Africa and dust roads that are used on some sites.
In Mali and Cte d'Ivoire, the dry season is very dusty, exacerbated by Our efforts to manage dust include rehabilitating waste rock the harmattan which blows dust south from the Sahara.
During dumps and disturbed areas.
Haul and other roads are sprayed this period it is very difficult to manage dust pollution.
with water or sprayed with dust-a-side or molasses to bind the dust and prevent pollution.
In the plant and at the crushers, We recognise that dust pollution causes discomfort for people water sprayers help to minimise dust generated.
We complied and livestock and have an active policy of measuring and with all local air quality standards in 2012. managing the amount of dust pollution on our sites.
Next step Environmental management is a long term commitment for megawatts of installed capacity and we continue to explore the Randgold and we have challenges to meet in all our four key extent to which both grid power and hydropower can contribute.
areas of energy, water, land use and air quality.
2013 will see the introduction of amended water management In order to reduce our overall energy consumption, improve plans based on the revised water balances being taken this year.
our energy efficiency, and decrease the amount of greenhouse This will help us meet our five-year target of 85% use of recycled gases we emit we will be focusing our efforts on a number of water across all operations.
In June 2013, we will also report to initiatives in 2013.
These include the introduction of hydropower the CDPs Water Disclosure Project for the first time.
at Kibali, energy efficiency programmes at Loulo and Tongon and continued work with the Ivorian electricity supplier CIE, and at the Land rehabilitation efforts will continue at all our mines in highest levels of Government, to stabilise the grid supply.
This 2013 with a BAP for Tongon an early priority.
We will strive to will include the facilitation of management training.
In Senegal, further develop our plans for potential biodiversity offsets at the we estimate that the new Massawa mine will require about 25-30 Garamba National Park near Kibali.
