Audit committee report continued Key items discussed in 2012 A summary of the key agenda items considered by the audit committee during 2012 includes the following: Audit committee meetings Items considered Q January 2012 2011 annual and fourth quarter preliminary results announcement Q Proposed declaration of a dividend Q Accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements Q External audit report Q The groups non-audit services policy Q The groups risk-factors report, SOX and internal audit reports and litigation reports Q Internal audit strategy and plan for 2012 Q The groups insurance policies Q Amendments to the groups treasury policy Q March 2012 2 meetings Approval of the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 Q Approval of the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2011 Q April 2012 Quarterly financial statements Q Risk factors report, SOX and internal audit reports and litigation reports Q Treasury policy update Q Internal audit update Q August 2012 Quarterly financial statements Q Risk-factors report, SOX and internal audit reports and litigation reports Q Treasury policy update Q Risk management update and risk review Q External audit report on internal controls around capital expenditure Q November 2012 Quarterly financial statements Q Risk-factors report, SOX and internal audit reports and litigation reports Q External audit planning and engagement Q Amendments to the groups treasury policy Q Review of the groups insurance policies Q Draft budget and five-year plan The audit committee makes recommendations to the board in The external auditors are regularly invited to attend and participate in audit committee meetings to report on their relation to the appointment, re-appointment and any changes activities.
The audit committee met with the external auditors, to the external auditors.
BDO were appointed in 2007 following without the executive directors or management being present.
a formal review and tendering process and served as external auditors for the group for the 2012 financial year.
Their reSuch meetings took place in both August 2012, November 2012 and January 2013, following the presentation of a report appointment will be recommended to shareholders at the by the BDO audit partner to the audit committee.
Taking into account the output of the audit committees review of the groups external auditors Internal audit independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the The head of internal audit has responsibility to the audit audit process, together with other relevant review processes committee and has direct access to members of the audit conducted throughout the year, the audit committee is satisfied committee, the chairman of the audit committee and the to recommend that the board proposes to shareholders that chairman of the board.
The head of internal audit attended BDO be re-appointed as external auditors to the group.
There four audit committee meetings during the year.
At these are no contractual restrictions on the boards ability to appoint meetings various committee reports, internal audit plans, alternative external auditors.
The board established a policy SOX and internal audit reports and internal audit findings were in 2011 that going forward the groups external audit would be presented and discussed.
The head of internal audit works subject to a tender process every five years to ensure that the across the group with responsibility for reviewing, evaluating, group continues to receive high quality and cost effective audit developing and providing assurance on the adequacy of services.
the internal control environment, operating efficiency and risk identication and management across all of the groups The audit committee regularly met throughout the year to operations.
The internal audit functions mandate, terms of consider and approve the companys quarterly financial reference and annual audit coverage plans were approved by statements, approve the 2011 annual financial statements, and annual report on Form 20-F. the audit committee during the year.
