Next step Our targets to increase production next year imply that we will continue We welcome and will continue to actively participate in to increase the revenues that ow to our host nations.
This will go ongoing discussions to ensure that mining codes and tax hand in hand with our desire to further catalyse economic growth at levels in all our host countries are long term and mutually the local level by nurturing local companies, skills and employment.
As the Massawa project in Senegal Where possible, we will work with partners to contribute to wider develops, we also hope to step up our contributions to that debates around economic development and benefit sharing.
country, which will be a new host country for Randgold.
Managing a dynamic environment in Mali in 2012 Randgold is very experienced at managing dynamic political of genuine partnership is a model built for emerging Africa.
situations in Africa, and in 2012 political upheaval in Mali Communication at the local level is key to our approach.
underlined why our partnership and local empowerment For example, the day after the temporary coup dtat on philosophy is so important to the companys success.
Mali is the 21 March 2012, our CEO was in Mali speaking with suppliers largest country in West Africa, and home to three of Randgolds and employees and reassuring them of Randgolds mine sites: Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila.
Gold is an important part commitment to the country.
of Malis economy, it represents 19% of Malis GDP according to the World Gold Council and in 2011, Randgolds tax payments Despite our mines being located so far from the unrest, alone represented more than 6% of Malis total tax intake.
we have endeavoured to help where we can.
In April, Randgold donated over 60 tonnes of food through 2012 was a tumultuous one for Mali.
There was significant the Red Cross to the troubled area and in October we political upheaval caused by ethnic insurrection in the northern half of the country and further unrest caused by the activities of joined forces with other mining companies and donated unrelated extremist and criminal groups.
US$735 000 in emergency funding to save a medical programme ghting neglected tropical diseases in the country.
Although our mines are located in the southern half of the Funding by USAID for the programme had been suspended country and hence far from where the unrest is located a because of the unrest and thousands risked potentially fatal distance similar to the entire length of the UK we still took illness without this intervention.
the precautionary steps of ensuring that sufficient supplies of fuel and other consumables were on hand should the situation It is clear that the Malian authorities grasp the severity of the become worse and affect our supply chains.
situation and are determined to nd a resolution.
We have deep confidence in the ability of Malis people to resolve their Despite the concerns, our production levels in Mali continued challenges in a constructive manner and to continue to play to meet our targets throughout 2012.
This is mainly because a central role in furthering the enormous progress that weve our practice of using in-country local management teams, our regular contact with authorities at all levels, and our philosophy seen in West African politics over recent years.
