Audit committee report continued Financial risks KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Production and capital cost control Cash cost per ounce.
Failure to control Budgeting and reporting Comprehensive budgeting process Capital expenditure cash costs per ounce processes.
Project encompassing all expenditure approved and cost management will result in reduced approval process.
for all major expenditure and capital Return on capital inability to monitor expenditures.
capital expenditure expenditure incurred made with approved and progress of capital budgets only.
Review of expenditure projects resulting in against budget on regular basis and financial losses and reporting to the board and executive overspend on projects.
Risk: Insufficient liquidity, inappropriate financial strategy and inability to access funding from global credit and capital markets Liquidity prole The group may be Financial strategy, The board closely monitors the groups required to seek funding cash forecasting and operational performance and cash from the global credit management.
Capital ows against plan, along with a fiveand capital markets to forecasting and year forecast.
This assists the board in develop its operations monitoring.
understanding the variety of risks facing and projects.
The the group and the likelihood that future recent weaknesses in external funding might be required.
This those markets could advanced understanding of the cash adversely affect the requirements of the group allows the groups ability to obtain board to manage the risks of sourcing nancing and capital funding in difficult market conditions.
resources required by The group limits exposure on liquid funds the business.
through a treasury policy of minimum counterparty credit ratings, counterparty settlement limits and exposure diversication.
Risk: In-country tax regimes Taxation related fines Failure to adapt to Use of experts to review The board regularly monitors tax or penalties changes in tax regimes changes in legislation and positions and changes in conjunction and regulations may tax regulations.
Regular with management and where necessary result in fines, financial meetings with government engages experts.
The chief executive losses and corporate ofcials.
Review of officer and chief financial officer, along reputational damage.
regulatory lings to ensure with in-country executives, regularly Failure to react to compliance.
engage with tax authorities and tax notications from governments to address the impact of authorities could result any proposed changes to taxation or in financial losses or the scal regimes.
Inability to enforce legislation over tax or incorrectly applied legislation could result in lengthy arbitration and loss of profits or company assets.
