Randgold group LTIFR Safety 1.75 3.13 1.50 2010 2011 2012 At the heart of our safety policy is a mindset of personal achieved this level of performance.
By the end of last year, we had substantially advanced towards the landmark of having all responsibility and constant communication.
Every individual our active mines certied to the OHSAS 18001 Occupational on site must take responsibility for their behaviour and commits Health and Safety Management standard.
Gounkoto and to report any accidents, near misses or items that might need Tongons applications are due to be nalised mid-2013.
We believe in empowering our employees to act on safety, so if a worker is asked to undertake a task, the task is preceded by a risk assessment to guide behaviour and if they A disproportionate number of the groups LTIs, around 70% of believe any aspect is unsafe, they are encouraged to refuse and them, occurred at Kibali.
This is partly because the mine is in its construction phase, which is the most testing time for our report it without reprimand.
Kibali has also brought in a large number of new employees, many of whom have no previous experience Safety training is a critical part of our approach and is included of working in an extensive industrial zone and whose training in the inductions of every employee and contractor.
Specic safety risks in each department, such as chemical hazards are in the importance of safety is starting from a low base.
Even separately assessed and each has its own specialised training with these challenges, Kibali managed to achieve the greatest modules.
Personal protective equipment and morning toolbox improvement in LTIFR within the group, reducing from a LTIFR of 8.5 in 2011 to 2.5 in 2012.
We are, however, aiming for safety briengs where daily reminders and discussions about further improvements at Kibali next year as we strive towards safety are raised are other vital elements in our approach.
When accidents happen, our Safety, Health and Environment SHE department ensures the incident is analysed and that We have identied that too few near misses are being reported remedial actions are taken.
They also ensure that illiterate in relation to LTIs reported.
We are trying to foster increased employees are fully briefed on the meanings of written awareness and reporting of near misses as these reports trigger remedial action procedures and help prevent accidents procedures and safety signage is always symbolic, an important from occurring.
consideration in some of the underdeveloped areas in which we operate.
We have a zero tolerance policy towards drug or Last year we also took action to reduce accidents involving alcohol abuse and unsafe behaviour on site.
All our sites impose a speed limit, we Our performance have increased the numbers of signs and guards at crossings Regrettably, we experienced one fatality at our operations during to regulate trafc and where possible have separated roads 2012.
The incident occurred on the Kibali site in October when for heavy and light vehicles including motorbikes.
At the a front-end-loader vehicle was exited by its operator and rolled Loulo-Gounkoto complex we have trialled a new driving back causing the accident.
The deceased was Bangaya David test and permit system that has restricted poor-performing Latu, a 32 year-old general labourer who was Congolese and drivers from driving on site.
Although this system was only married.
As is policy at Randgold, we conducted an in-depth implemented towards the end of the year, there have already investigation into the cause of this incident, which included a been indications of a substantial decrease in property damage presentation to the Kibali board, and have implemented a detailed and vehicle accidents.
action plan, which includes improvements to safety awareness, capacity assessment systems and skills developments in this Safety performance specic area, to prevent a similar event from recurring.
2012 2011 2010 In 2012, we took a positive step towards our ambitious aim of zero Labour 11 477 8 652 n a LTI by far exceeding our annual target of a 10% reduction in the Person hours 25 327 309 19 806 975 n a LTIFR, a standard benchmark to measure safety performance.
Number of The LTIFR for 2012 at our five active mines Loulo, Gounkoto, active mines 5 43 Morila, Tongon and Kibali reduced by 52% from 3.13 to 1.50 LTIs 38 62 27 across the group, with the number of LTIs reducing by more than a third to 38 last year See table alongside.
The LTIFR at LTIFR 1.50 3.13 1.75 our operational mines that is excluding Kibali which is under Fatalities 1 31 construction has improved by 37% from 1.29 to 0.81.
Near misses 20 14 n a Morila and Tongon both showed that our goal of zero LTI is Including persons employed by our contractors.
Defined as injuries that occur in the execution of duties that mean the very much achievable by completing a year with only one LTI at person is unable to perform those duties for at least one day.
This is the second consecutive year that Morila has Number of lost time injuries per million man-hours worked.
