an improved standard of living after resettlement.
We aim to maintain community structures wherever possible and respect sites of cultural or religious signicance.
The implementation of our RAPs is always monitored by independent third parties.
Our performance In line with our plans, we spent more than US$51 million on a 100% attributable basis on RAP implementation in 2012.
Kibali is our only current site where resettlement is taking place.
The Kibali RAP will have resettled around 20 000 people when completed, most of whom were previously living in isolated villages without basic utilities and who will be resettled into the newly constructed village of Kokiza which has civic infrastructure including schools, clinics, shops and churches as well as running water and electricity.
It includes the construction or re-siting of 14 churches, a catholic cathedral, 17 schools and 2 300 graves.
Approximately 50% of the Kibali resettlement has been completed and it is moving rapidly towards its final phase, with new houses being constructed at a rate of up to 75 to 90 houses per week.
All people have been successfully moved from the new mines main pit, construction areas and tailings The Kibali RAP will have resettled around 20 000 people when completed.
storage facility and in total nine villages and 1 208 households were successfully resettled in 2012.
Details of grievances registered can be found earlier in this sustainability report.
The resettlement is due to be completed by the end of the third quarter of 2013 and will have facilitated the creation of over Resettlement 4 200 new houses.
Our policies The cooperation between the Kibali communities and the We strive to avoid or minimise physical or economic company has been respectful and productive throughout 2012. displacement of people, but where resettlement does need to There has been a number of challenges that have only been take place, we make sure it is done in the right way.
Our policy met thanks to the strength of this relationship.
For example, to is to ensure that affected parties are fully engaged, helping solve the problem of children now having longer commutes in shape the process, and that their standard of living is improved, order to attend the new schools in Kokiza, a new school bus or at the very least restored.
service has been designed and put into practice.
To meet the sensitive challenge of relocating graves, the company has been Randgold has tried and tested procedures for resettlement, moving them in a way that aligns with the physical movement of guided by the IFC Performance Standards on land acquisition the people as agreed with communities.
Over 1 700 graves had and involuntary resettlement and national legislation.
been relocated by the end of 2012.
Randgold has experience in dealing with sensitive community issues during resettlement.
Our resettlement policy puts the affected person at the centre For example, the Loulo-Gounkoto complex houses holy sites of our policy.
Our starting point is a Public Participation Process of the Torondinloto and Faraba communities and is keeping PPP to encourage all opinions and grievances to be heard and them accessible throughout current mining operations.
Sacred fed into the compensation process.
The general PPP is then forests at Tongon have also been preserved within the mines followed by more intensive discussions and negotiations with a boundaries.
The results of the PPP are incorporated into a draft Resettlement Action Plan RAP which Actual and projected resettlement gures is then also put forward as the basis for further consultation 2013 with the RWG before a final RAP is agreed.
2011 2012 projected Number of households Our procedure is to offer a like for like asset replacement to resettled 392 1 208 2 632 affected parties and we aim to ensure that all affected people RAP expenditure feel fully and fairly compensated for the upheaval and have US$ million 100% 41 51 39 96 Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources |
