Key risks and uncertainties External risks KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Gold price volatility Realised gold price Earnings and cash ow Long term financial The group constantly monitors the volatility from sudden or strategy and monitoring.
market in which it operates.
The internal significant declines in the Treasury policies.
treasury committees responsibilities gold price.
include monitoring and discussing the gold price which are reported to the executive committees and the board.
Forecasting and budgeting assumptions relating to commodities are prudent and monitored by the board and executive committee.
Risk: Country risk Total shareholder Inadequate monitoring Policies to ensure that Successful relationships with return performance of in-country political the group is meeting governments, senior in-country ofcials instability and changes the terms of its agreed and other key external stakeholders to political environment and signed licences are built and maintained.
This may impact the ability to and conventions.
Inincludes delivering on and adhering to sustain operations.
The group actively monitors stakeholder management regulatory and political developments policies.
as well as the country risk ratings on a continuous basis.
Risk: Corporate, social and environmental responsibility Total shareholder Poor management of Social and environmental Attention is placed on maintaining return performance stakeholder, community policies.
Commitment sound relations with local communities and government to improvement of and working with these groups to expectations and the communities.
The lack of corporate and communication with groups environmental committee, social responsibility may stakeholders.
under the chairmanship of the CEO, lead to the inability to continues to address these issues and sustain operations in the reports quarterly to the board.
Review area and impact on the of stakeholder relations at executive groups ability to expand committee meetings.
Regular dialogue into other regions.
with the affected communities by senior executives.
Risk: Supply routes Total shareholder Due to the remote Stock cover policies with Utilisation of local partners and return performance location of the groups minimum levels set for knowledge of the region.
Buffer stocks operations the disruption operations.
Commitment maintained including strategic spares.
of supply routes may to local and regional Alternative supply routes tested and cause delays with partnerships from utilised.
