Gender diversity Our policies Randgold has a clear and transparent non-discrimination and technicians.
At a corporate level, a significant number of policy as stipulated in relevant national laws and establishment senior positions are occupied by female employees including the agreements signed with trade unions at our operations.
We group general manager for corporate communications, group strive to recruit and retain the best people, especially from the financial manager and group business assurance manager.
The populations of the countries in which we operate.
most recent appointment to the board is also female.
We recognise that gender is a factor in recruiting a diverse and In order to help improve the levels of women in our workforce, representative workforce and we measure the number of female and in the African mining sector more broadly, Randgold has employees we have in the workforce.
There is no difference supported initiatives in 2012 to raise awareness of the positive between salary scales for male and female employees.
This is a benets of women taking jobs in the industry.
For example, particularly challenging area due to a number of cultural factors, employees with daughters at university are encouraged to invite not least that mining is a traditionally male-dominated industry their daughters to gain experience at our mine sites during study that discourages women from applying for jobs in our countries leave.
This can lead to future employment opportunities with the of operation.
Our performance The company helped local womens associations to mark In total, just 8% of our permanent workforce is female, slightly up on International Womens Day in 2012 and took pro-active action in last year.
This is a disappointing gure although it is encouraging July to ensure that womens associations were represented on that it includes a wide range of roles including engineers, managers the Morila Local Development Committee.
Next step Maintaining a safe, skilled and diverse workforce is an ongoing The development of local talent will continue to be a focus at all challenge for Randgold.
Safety will remain our highest priority operations, and particular emphasis will be given to Kibali due to in 2013, with a focus on ensuring that Gounkoto and Tongon the sheer scale of the project.
become compliant with OHSAS 18001 and that Kibali is ready for that standard when it ramps up to production.
We have a Our board is currently undertaking a training needs analysis target to reduce the LTIFR by a further 10% in 2013. for the group as a whole and this will be concluded and its recommendations enacted.
One recommendation is likely More safety supervisors will be trained in 2013 and we will work on raising awareness about the importance of reporting near to be the formation of more formal partnerships with leading misses.
These can act as an important early warning system to global academic institutions such as the University of Quebec, safety teams before accidents occur, and we therefore want to University of Cape Town and Bamako College to help meet our encourage more of these to be reported.
As part of our attempts to improve the number of LTIs at Kibali, We will continue to seek ways in which gender stereotypes in the we will increase the provision for safety training at the site African mining industry can be challenged and encourage more and implement innovations such as behaviour based safety assessments to help improve the mines safety record.
women to work with our company.
