Artisanal and small-scale mining Our policies Our performance Artisanal and small-scale mining ASM activity is present on There is an ASM presence at both Kibali and on the Loulotwo of our mine complexes.
Although artisanal mining can be Gounkoto complex.
At Kibali, the strategy of offering ASM an important source of economic activity in some of our host practitioners jobs on the main Kibali mine and as suppliers of countries a large proportion of it is illegal, as opposed to the bricks or as building contractors, has been a great success traditional orpailluers, and its presence can create tensions and has led to a rapidly declining number of orpailleurs on for local communities and endanger both health and the or near the site.
Our partner, SOKIMO, has also assisted by environment due to the chemicals, erosion and land degradation identifying alternative sites for orpaillures to mine.
In addition, many of the artisanal miners are under the control of syndicate leaders who are often illegal At the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, there is still a sizeable immigrants exploiting local communities through practices such presence of ASM, located mainly at Sansamba on the as the use of child labour.
In the summer of 2012, a government delegation visited the artisanal miners and confirmed their use We have a no conict and no invasions policy in regard to of hazardous chemicals including mercury and cyanide.
We artisanal mining communities present on or adjacent to our sites.
Our policy is formed with reference to both International are therefore working closely with government and community Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and IFC guidance and leaders to implement a long term strategy for the orpailleurs.
sets out that, wherever possible, we offer alternative livelihoods for orpailleurs including work on our mines or in new economic Part of this has included the creation of an agricultural project sectors such as agriculture and bricklaying.
Our policy is to in partnership with the Mayor of Sitakily.
An area of 30 hectares work in partnership with host communities and regional and of land near Sansamba growing rice, corn and other crops was national governments to nd long term strategies that are harvested for the first time in 2012, and the mayor as is mutually beneficial.
African tradition invited the ASM community to help harvest and enjoy a feast, with the aim of demonstrating alternatives to Where orpailleurs are not interested in alternative employment artisanal mining.
we seek to offer a designated site, approved by government, where ASMs can be relocated to work without causing harm In 2012, a public consultation process was held at Baboto, a to others and where they can be gently introduced to the planned exploration site, to discourage peoples support for alternative livelihoods on offer.
Ultimately, the existence of the orpailleurs activities on the potential mine site.
It is part of our ASM community is linked to unemployment, inequality and continuing efforts to work together with all partners to nd a poverty and a viable long term solution requires a broader answer devised in partnership with governments.
viable and peaceful long term solution to ASM issues.
Nos vies en partage Foundation Following the success of Randgold chief executive Mark independently and management of the Nos Vies en Partage Bristows charity motorcycle rides across Europe and Foundation shall consist of a board of members, one of whom is Africa, the company established a charitable foundation a professional service company in Jersey as required by Jersey called Nos Vies en Partage Foundation utilising the name law.
The composition of the foundations board is still being and goodwill he had created.
The Nos Vies en Partage nalised and, to ensure that its independence is preserved, Foundation has been established in Jersey, Channel Islands, members shall not be existing directors or senior managers of where Randgold is incorporated, and will have its focus on Randgold.
The main purposes of the foundation are: Q the relief of poverty Q the promotion of education Q primary health care, including potable water Q food security Q the advancement of social objectives Q the creation of employment opportunities.
The foundation will operate separately from the company, and its work will be distinct from Randgolds existing and proposed social development programmes.
Following an initial donation from the company, the foundation will raise its own funds Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 95 |
