The audit committee is regularly updated on proposed and going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the new legislation in which the committee has an interest.
The directors have no reason pertinent information and reports which are presented to to believe that the group and company will not be a going the committee are required typically by internal staff, legal concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts and counsel, external consultants and external auditors.
To assist available cash resources of the group as at 14 March 2013. management in providing the information to allow the audit The viability of the company and the group is supported by committee to discharge its responsibilities, the groups CFO, the annual financial statements.
other executive management, external auditors and the head of internal audit, regularly attend audit committee meetings.
The group operates a code of conduct which is reviewed and enhanced by the board from time to time.
The code of conduct The chairman of the audit committee holds an MBA and PhD includes specic reference to the companys financial managers in economics and finance, and the other two members have and the CEO.
A copy of the code of conduct is available on the many years of experience in the financial services sector as companys website www.
detailed in their biographies on pages 4 and 5 of this annual report.
The board believes that this level of experience The board adopted the audit committees terms of reference continues to be sufficient to meet the standards set by the on 9 March 2012 and following a review by the audit committee United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code.
In the on 27 January 2013, the audit committee agreed its terms of event that any issues arise which are deemed outside the reference did not require to be amended.
A copy of the audit areas of expertise of the members of the audit committee, committees terms of reference is available on the companys independent professional advice is always sought.
Before they are published, the audit committee reviews the companys quarterly results and other announcements External audit relating to financial performance, reviews the effectiveness of The groups external auditors are BDO LLP BDO.
The audit the companys system of internal control and risk management committee monitors the external auditors independence procedures, legal and regulatory compliance including the and objectivity taking into account relevant professional and United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, and the regulatory requirements.
The audit committee also monitors services provided by the external auditors.
the external auditors performance and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This is undertaken within the framework of the The board acknowledges that pursuant to the Companies detailed audit committees terms of engagement and agreed Jersey Law 1991 and the United Kingdoms Corporate audit scope and approach.
Governance Code, it has a responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys In line with the audit committees policy during the year no nonand the groups position and prospects.
This extends audit services were provided by BDO.
The audit committee to the preparation and publication of the annual report reafrmed that policy on 27 January 2013. and any release of other financial information.
The board also acknowledges that the United Kingdoms Corporate During the year, the external audit undertaken by BDO in Governance Code provisions include the requirement for respect of the 2011 financial year was selected for specic an explanation of the basis on which the group generates review by the Audit Quality Review AQR team of the Financial or preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for Reporting Council FRC.
The FRC is the United Kingdoms delivering the objectives of the group.
independent regulator overseeing the United Kingdom audit profession whose activities include independent inspection The directors are required to prepare annual financial of the overall quality of the auditing of listed companies and statements for the group in accordance with International major public interest entities.
The FRC findings, reported to Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the BDO, were shared and discussed with the audit committee.
The directors have chosen to also prepare The committee noted that the review focused on specic areas annual financial statements for the company in accordance of audit risk relevant to the group and its operations.
It also with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting covered certain considerations surrounding communication Standards Board.
The directors are responsible for the with the audit committee, ethics and independence.
The maintenance of proper accounting records together with audit committee was pleased to note that the AQR reported the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the annual that the audit work was of a good standard and that it had no financial statements of the company and of the group.
specic matters to bring to the attention of the committee.
The directors have also prepared the other information In line with professional standards, BDO rotated the audit included in the annual report and are responsible for both partner in the year as the previous audit partner had acted as its accuracy and its consistency with the annual financial the BDO audit partner for the group for five years.
Auditors fees The directors have general responsibility for selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently, and US$ 2012 2011 for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Audit services 1 150 352 997 050 safeguard the assets of the group which includes preventing Non-audit services - - and detecting fraud and other financial irregularities.
The Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 121 |
