Land management and biodiversity Our policies Satellite image of the Morila ora communities Maintaining biodiversity is vital for ensuring the ongoing provision of the ecosystem services we rely on, such as production of clean water, prevention of erosion, carbon storage and clean air.
We therefore take a proactive approach to land and biodiversity management, and have a policy of constant rehabilitation while a mine is operational.
We use baseline surveys and satellite imagery to monitor changes in vegetation cover and measure affected areas as a result of mining activities.
An example of this can be seen in the satellite image alongside.
Mine boundary Internal roads tracks Mine plan Dump and TSF rehabilitation is conducted on a planned basis Flora communities depending on which areas are active and which are not.
Slopes Natural vegetation are sculpted to the correct angles for stability, covered with Residential vegetation topsoil and then planted with indigenous grasses and trees, in Disturbed vegetation line with IFC standards.
This has the benefit of erosion control Agriculture Rehabilitated vegetation and mitigates dust pollution.
Where possible we align our land rehabilitation efforts closely with our closure planning.
Source: Digby Wells Environmental, 2012 environmental management teams.
During the year, training of Randgold has an active policy on waste management and aims mine personnel to implement the plans was completed at Morila to recycle as much material as possible.
All our mines have and Loulo.
In anticipation of the 2013 BAP, mining personnel waste management plans that cover the sorting and recycling from Tongon were also included in the training.
Sorting of domestic and metal waste takes place at all mines and often involves small communityAs part of the Morila closure plan we have taken steps this year based enterprises which are able to extract value from the to ensure the agribusiness strategy is closely integrated with waste generated.
Hydrocarbon waste collection, primarily used the land rehabilitation plans.
For example, plans have been put oil, is outsourced to reputable service providers who remove in place to include commercial crops such as mango trees in the material from the sites.
No waste deemed hazardous under the rehabilitation of waste dumps.
Long term investigations will the Basel Convention is transported, exported, imported or also be undertaken to determine the potential to grow crops on treated by Randgold.
the footprint of the reprocessed tailings facility once this area becomes available.
Our performance During 2012, a total of 153.4 hectares of land was rehabilitated.
Towards the end of 2012, Randgold began discussions with the With the exception of Morila, which is preparing for closure, all African Parks Network on ways to promote conservation at the our mines are at a relatively early stage in life and therefore the Garamba National Park in the DRC.
It is possible that where proportion of our total land being prepared for rehabilitation land on our mines cannot be rehabilitated, we could agree to is small see table below.
In total, we have 6 732 278 tonnes a biodiversity offset project that creates a new conservation of overburden, rock, tailings and slimes and we are working to area which otherwise would not exist, and which has long term reduce this.
Progress on these discussions will be reported in next years report.
One of the major steps forward in 2012 was the introduction of a new corporate biodiversity policy approved by the board, which ensures that those areas within the mining right area that are not disturbed are managed so that their biodiversity is conserved.
Total land rehabilitated and disturbed We are introducing Biodiversity Action Plans BAPs at all sites Total hectares Total hectares to make sure the policy is implemented.
rehabilitated disturbed 2012 2011 2012 2011 In 2012, BAPs were put in place at Morila and Loulo: with a plan Morila 130 51 883 1 013 for Tongon due to be compiled in early 2013.
These integrated Loulo 6.4 7 1 274 1 280 plans delineate habitats and land uses for the mining right area with accompanying actions for the different areas based Tongon - 6 2 451 2 451 on the land use and habitat type.
The plans are a synthesis Gounkoto 17 - 460 446 of existing specialist reports and learnings from existing Kibali - - 723 434 environmental management measures and aim to define an Total 153.4 64 5 791 5 624 efficient and coherent strategy to be implemented by Randgolds Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 111 |
