Directors # Philippe Litard 64 Norborne P Cole Jr 71 Non-executive chairman Senior independent non-executive Appointed a Randgold non-executive director in 1998 and Started working for the Coca-Cola Company as a eld chairman in 2004, his experience in corporate and project representative in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily finance with UBS, the International Finance Corporation IFC through the organisation, becoming chief executive of and World Bank spans 30 years, mainly in the minerals business Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a position he held until and in Africa.
Previously a director of the Oil, Gas and Mining 1998.
Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil grew into the Department of the IFC, he served as managing director of the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Now based in Global Natural Resources Fund from 2000 to 2003.
Now an San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a number of US independent consultant and a promoter of mining and energy investments, he is also a director of CellMark AB of Sweden and companies including Papa Johns International Inc.
He became serves on the board of trustees of the Rochambeau Foundation a director of Randgold in May 2006. in Washington DC, USA.
$ Christopher L Coleman 44 D Mark Bristow 54 Independent non-executive Chief executive A managing director and head of banking and treasury at Chief executive since the incorporation of Randgold, which Rothschild, he is also chairman of Rothschild Bank International was founded on his pioneering exploration work in West Africa.
in the Channel Islands and serves on a number of other boards Has subsequently led the companys growth through the and committees of the Rothschild group, which he joined in 1989. discovery and development of world-class assets into a major gold mining business and one of the 100 largest companies on A BSc Econ graduate from the London School of Economics, the London Stock Exchange.
Has also played a significant part he was a non-executive director of the Merchant Bank of in promoting the emergence of a sustainable mining industry Central Africa from 2001 to 2008.
He is also a non-executive in Africa.
A geologist with a PhD from Natal University, South director of the US company Papa Johns International Inc.
He Africa, he has held board positions at a number of global was appointed to the Randgold board in November 2008. mining companies and is currently a non-executive director of Rockwell Diamonds Inc. Kadri Dagdelen 58 Independent non-executive Graham Shuttleworth 44 A professor and former head of the Department of Mining Financial director and chief financial officer Joined Randgold as chief financial officer and financial director Engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, he began in July 2007 after being associated with the company since its his professional career as a mining engineer at Homestake inception, initially as part of the management team involved Mining Co now Barrick Gold Corporation and was the technical in listing the company on the LSE in 1997, and subsequently services manager when he left for academia in 1992.
A chartered accountant, he was a managing PhD in mining engineering and an ME in geostatistics, he has director and the New York based head of metals and mining been involved in numerous research and consulting projects for the Americas in the global investment banking division of worldwide, also serving on the board of directors of the Society HSBC before taking up his current position at Randgold.
At of Mining, Exploration and Metallurgy in the USA for six years HSBC, he led or was involved in a wide range of major mining and chairing other professional societies that support the mining industry transactions, including Randgolds NASDAQ listing and subsequent equity offerings.
He joined the Randgold board in January 2010.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 4 | $ Robert I Israel 63 Karl Voltaire 62 Independent non-executive Non-executive A graduate in mineral resources engineering from the Managing partner of One Stone Energy Partners, a private Ecole des Mines in Paris, he holds an MBA and PhD in equity fund focused on the oil and gas industry.
He holds economics and finance from the University of Chicago.
an MBA from Harvard and a BA from Middlebury College He started his career as a mining engineer in Haiti and and his experience in the natural resources sector extends subsequently spent 23 years in the World Bank Group in to more than 30 years.
He joined the Randgold board in Washington DC, mainly at the IFC where his last position was 1997 and stepped down from the board and the governance that of director of global financial markets.
Subsequently he was and nomination committee at the companys annual general director of the Ofce of the President at the African Development meeting on 30 April 2012.
He was CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution from 2005 to 2009, and is currently a member of the Board of Trustees of Jeanine Mabunda Lioko 48 the African University of Science and Technology.
Appointed to Independent non-executive the Randgold board in May 2006.
Appointed a Randgold director in January 2013, she has spent a number of years working in the DRCs finance industry including with Citi Group and as an advisor to the Governor of Banque Centrale du Congo.
A former Minister of Portfolio of the DRC, a position which she held for over five years, she is now a serving member of the National Assembly of the DRC, representing the Equateur Province.
She was educated in Brussels, Belgium, and holds a law degree from the Catholic University of Louvain and a postgraduate degree in commercial science from the ICHEC Brussels Management School.
Andrew J Quinn 59 Independent non-executive Retired at the end of 2011 from his position as Head of Mining Investment Banking for Europe and Africa at CIBC after 15 years in the role.
He has more than 37 years experience of the mining Photographed arriving on site for the board meeting at the Kibali mine industry.
With a BSc Hons in mineral exploitation mining development project in January 2013.
From left: Andrew Quinn, Graham engineering from Cardiff University, he began his career in Anglo Shuttleworth, Jeanine Mabunda Lioko, Kadri Dagdalen, Karl Voltaire, Americans gold division in 1975, holding various management Norbone Cole Jr, Christopher Coleman, Mark Bristow and Philippe Litard.
and technical positions in South Africa, and worked briey for Greenbushes Tin in Australia before joining Mining Journal in 1982 # Chairman of governance and nomination committee Chairman of audit committee as editor of its gold publications.
In 1984, he entered the financial Chairman of remuneration committee services industry, joining James Capel later HSBC Investment Member of governance and nomination committee Banking, and then CIBC.
He was appointed to the Randgold Member of audit committee $ board in November 2011.
Member of remuneration committee Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 5 |
