Occupational health Our policies for the disease.
They are able to continue to work at the mine as Effective management of occupational health risks protects our long as they are able, and have access to antiretroviral ARV drugs.
Our policy is focused on Our performance preventing harm to our people by pro-actively managing the source A total of 60 142 medical consultations were held for employees of potential health risks.
Eliminating exposure to safety hazards is a major part of this, but We have had one new case of noise induced hearing loss, occurring we also pro-actively identify potential occupational health issues at the Loulo site, and remedial action has been taken.
We have through regular medical consultations for employees.
These monitor a strict policy to protect those exposed to loud machinery.
Any areas such as heavy metal in the blood, silicosis, tuberculosis TB and hearing issues.
Those with exposure to chemicals or other area where noise reaches over 85 decibels has personal protective equipment PPE issued such as ear protectors and operators are potentially harmful departments have more frequent testing to not allowed to work a shift longer than eight hours.
We manage 24-hour clinics with an ambulance and high-quality medical facilities at all of our sites.
There were no significant abnormalities identied by our biological Diseases such as malaria and HIV AIDS are not only debilitating and radiation monitoring in 2012.
We are mindful that TB is on the for the individuals concerned, they can have a major impact on increase globally and we had 14 new cases of TB across the group, productivity, absenteeism and morale.
Preventing and treating over 70% of these at Kibali.
We have strict procedures in place them is an important part of our business as well as a major part to rapidly quarantine patients when TB is detected and to test all of our efforts to build strong relations with local communities.
Our those that have been in contact with infected persons to prevent malaria programme and protocols are based on World Health further spread of the infection.
Organisation standards and include the provision of mosquito nets and repellent, chemical controls, awareness raising initiatives Fighting malaria and, where possible, early, effective diagnosis and treatment.
Last year we spent more than US$539 000 implementing our antiA target to reduce malaria incidence by 25% across the group has malaria programme and distributed more than 5 780 impregnated been set for 2013. mosquito nets to employees and community members.
Our malaria incidence rate, which is the number of new cases of malaria as a Details of our HIV AIDS programme are set out in a previous proportion of our total employees, dropped from 69% to 62% in section of this report, although it is important to note that we have a 2012.
This is a significant achievement against a backdrop of difficult clear policy of non-discrimination for any worker who tests positive circumstances, particularly in Mali.
Employee malaria incidence rate MIR % 200 150 100 50 0 Loulo Gounkoto Morila Tongon Kibali Group 100 Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources | Baseline 2005 2010 2011 2012 Baseline 2011 2012 Baseline 2000 2010 2011 2012 Baseline 2010 2011 2012 Baseline 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Mali suffered its heaviest rainfall in 50 years, providing perfect Similar focus will be expended in Mali to combat the increased breeding conditions for the mosquitoes and also experienced an resistance in mosquitoes.
We have reviewed the control programme increase in resistance to insecticide among its mosquito population.
and will increase our control measures in 2013.
After a high incidence rate at Tongon in Cte dIvoire last year, Despite the progress last year, almost one in three incidents 30.3% additional effort has been expended to ght the disease there and of absenteeism across the group was caused by malaria.
This has resulted in the number of individual cases being reduced from underlines the business case for greater prevention see case study 1 802 to 1 167.
Malaria incidence at the Tongon mine has reduced below.
A business case for ghting malaria at Loulo At our Loulo mine in Mali, malaria is not only a health issue, its a However, we believe that through our extensive malaria crucial business issue.
Around 25% of the absenteeism at our programme, we will arrest this increase and signicantly Loulo mine was caused by malaria in 2012. bring down malaria incidence in 2013.
Clearly, if we succeed in driving down malaria rates we improve worker productivity and motivation as well helping gain the support of the local community.
In 2012, the challenges of ghting malaria at Loulo were exacerbated by a combination of events.
First, the area experienced the heaviest rainfall in 50 years, providing perfect breeding conditions for the mosquitoes.
Second, our annual assessment of one of the chemical insecticides we spray found that the mosquitos had become resistant to it.
Despite these challenges, our malaria programme at Loulo was extensive, with more than US$147 000 spent on a range of measures.
These included: Q An indoor and outdoor insecticide spraying programme, using two alternating insecticides spraying twice monthly during the wet season.
Villages within a five kilometre radius of the mine site are sprayed.
To counteract the new resistance, a new second chemical has been introduced this year.
Q A larviciding programme which deposits larvicide in potential mosquito breeding sites such as still water and holes in the ground.
The programme uses natural bacteria that eat the larvae and therefore has no harmful environmental effects and does not contaminate water.
Q The provision of 2 000 mosquito nets to employees and the community and awareness sessions to encourage use of nets and other prevention techniques.
Communications included meetings in clinics and community centres and use of local radio broadcasts.
We also worked with experts at the University of Bamako to train community sprayers and peer educators.
Q Distribution of malaria tablets for pregnant mothers.
Malaria is more common during pregnancy due to suppression of the immune system.
Q The initial health impact assessment for Loulo in 2005 set the malaria incidence baseline at 51%.
By 2011, the implementation of the malaria programme had driven this down to 38%.
In 2012, the serious challenges of high rainfall and increased resistance saw malaria incidence rise again.
