Water management Our policies Our performance The companys water use stayed successfully within the Water is often called blue gold and, as a precious and sometimes boundaries of its permitted arrangements with authorities scarce resource, we endeavour to use it as efficiently as possible throughout the year.
The groups overall water consumption for while ensuring that our activities do not pollute water sources.
2012 increased in line with production from 12 251ML across four operational sites in 2011 to 19 599ML in 2012 across The context for each mine varies, for example Loulo is near to a five operational sites see graphs below.
Water withdrawal very large river, Morila has off-channel water storage and Tongon 3 3 efficiency improved from 1.10m t in 2011 to 0.5m t in 2012. has a number of very large water storage facilities.
Rainfall at Of this amount, 10 371ML was freshwater offtake, less than the each site also varies.
12 251ML of fresh water needed in 2011, due to successfully increasing usage of recycled water see graphs below.
At each mine we have strict permits around water discharge, abstraction and pollution agreed with all national authorities and New pumps and improved pipelines helped increase use of recycled our water management policy aims to keep well within those limits.
Morila and Tongon both achieved the targeted A central pillar of our policy is to maximise the use of recycled use of 85% recycled water while Loulo improved to over 65%.
water for mining and processing.
At our existing operations we have a three year target to return 80% of grey water to processing During 2012, we began recalculating the water balances for all plants, and a five year target to return 85%.
our operations in order to obtain a better understanding of all water inputs and outputs and improve our water management.
We are committed to minimising seepage from Tailings Storage To assist us in the water balance process, we have installed ow Facilities TSF.
We outsource the management and construction of meters at critical points and, based on the data we receive, will these facilities to a specialist company, with monitoring of water levels revisit our water management plans.
This process is due to be on the TSFs conducted by an independent consulting engineer.
