2013 Guidance Group consolidated production Total cash cost of production Capital expenditure 900 000 - 950 000oz US$700 oz - US$750 oz US$670 million 2012 Key performance indicators Group consolidated production Resources and reserves Total cash cost of production US$ oz 000oz g t Moz oz share 800 5 30 0.2 800 700 25 4 600 0.15 600 20 500 3 400 15 0.1 400 2 300 10 200 0.05 200 1 5 100 0 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Morila 40% Loulo-Gounkoto 100% Reserves Moz Resources Moz Tongon 100% Reserve grade g t Reserves oz share Head grade milled g t Refer to the notes to the resources and reserves declaration on page 72 of this annual report.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2013 AGM.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 1 | Morila Tongon Loulo Gounkoto Kibali Group Chairmans statement The challenges inherent to mining in Africa were evident last year when the fragility of some of its political structures, the limitations of its infrastructure and the mutability of its scal regimes came to the fore again.
Fortunately, the Randgold Resources team has never been deterred by challenges and knows how to manage risks in general and African risk in particular.
Against a troubled background, the company succeeded in breaking its previous performance records, achieving new heights in production and profits and increasing earnings per share.
On the back of such robust results, the board is recommending a 25% increase in the dividend to shareholders to 50 US cents per share, a tangible demonstration of Randgolds ability to continue creating value.
Theres an old safari saying that if you want to hunt elephants, you have to go to elephant country.
Similarly, if you are looking for multi-million ounce gold deposits capable of being converted into profitable mines, the place to look for them is in the worlds emerging regions, notably the mineral-rich African continent.
That is why Randgold continues to invest and reinvest in Africas highly prospective gold belts, exploring for new discoveries, expanding its operations and building new mines.
The giant Kibali project in the DRC, steadily heading towards first gold production by the end of 2013, is a monument to Randgolds confidence in the long term future of the continent as well as in its own competence to contribute to that future by generating economic benets in which all its stakeholders can share.
Philippe Litard Chairman Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 2 | Over the lifetime of its mines, Randgold estimates it will pay its merit by cushioning the company against the upheavals in slightly more than half of its net revenues to the host states Mali, providing a supportive environment for its operations and in the form of royalties, taxes, dividends and other benets.
helping Kibali to advance rapidly.
Like all close relationships, When it reinvests in those countries, the states share gets Randgolds partnerships with its host governments are even larger.
Furthermore, the companys contribution to these occasionally strained but these moments are invariably economies is multiplied by the jobs it creates, its upgrading overcome when the overriding considerations of common of the infrastructure, its support of local businesses and its interests and shared values reassert themselves.
Randgold substantial investment in sustainable community upliftment is therefore hopeful that wiser counsels will prevail over the initiatives.
current trend to rewrite mining codes on terms less favourable to miners, which we believe will in the long term damage the Randgolds ability to continue working successfully in Africa significant benets that the industry brings to its host countries.
depends on more than the creation of economic benets.
It We are actively engaged in the debates on this subject, guided also has to manage the risks inherent in mining responsibly.
by the four attributes which we believe characterise a healthy This means providing a safe and healthy workplace, respecting partnership: openness, transparency, fairness and reliability.
local cultures and caring for the environment.
These are sustainability issues but they are also sound business During the past year, the Randgold directors again toured its principles: the company takes these actions not because it has operations and projects.
The board visited Kibali for the third to but because it makes good business sense.
Concern for time in January 2013 and I must say that we were awed by health, safety and the environment is therefore not a peripheral the progress the development is making.
Mark and his team or box-ticking governance chore for Randgold: it is an integral are to be commended for the rm grip they have kept on this part of everything the company does.
project at a time when they also had to deal with a number of In recent years, Mark Bristow and some of his colleagues have operational issues as the company continues to grow.
The undertaken cross-continent motorcycle tours under the banner record results they have achieved under difficult conditions set of Nos Vies en Partage to raise funds for local charities along the seal on their achievement.
the way as well as for the tertiary education of prospective mining engineers, geologists and metallurgists from Africa.
I Since the year end, the board has been strengthened by the applaud this initiative and it is the companys intention to use appointment of Jeanine Mabunda Lioko as an independent this as the basis for the establishment of a Nos Vies en Partage non-executive director.
Jeanine was educated in Belgium Foundation, which will be initially supported by Randgold, to where she gained a degree in law and a postgraduate degree expand and direct the companys support for appropriate in commercial science.
A highly respected professional, she health and education initiatives.
has held various technical and management positions in the DRCs finance sector, including a period as advisor to the The detailed sustainability report included in this annual report Banque Centrale du Congo.
She was a DRC cabinet minister shows how Randgold is working to meet the expectations of all from 2007 to 2012 and is now a member of the countrys its stakeholders.
It demonstrates the companys partnership national assembly, where she represents the Equateur philosophy in action as well as its long term commitment to province.
Jeanines financial expertise coupled with a deep the countries in which it operates.
There is more to being a understanding of the environment in which Randgold operates successful business than making profits and paying taxes: in will make her contribution invaluable to the board.
Africa, to an even greater extent than elsewhere, companies also have to be valued partners, responsible corporate citizens In welcoming Jeanine, I would also like to express my and good neighbours.
appreciation to my colleagues on the board for their unstinting The partnership approach is an integral part of everything engagement with Randgold, and the wide perspective and Randgold does and, over the past year it has again showed sound judgement they bring to our deliberations.
