DIRECTORS REPORT: MARKET REVIEW We operate in regulated markets with a high cultural acceptance of gaming as a legitimate form of entertainment.
Betting shops form the second largest sector, Overview generating around 2.8bn in annual revenue from The Group sets clear criteria when making sports betting and slot machines in almost equal investment decisions in geographical markets: measure.
The online gambling industry is estimated Existence of a clear regulatory framework for to be worth in excess of 2bn, although the majority gambling activities: of this is generated by companies in off-shore High cultural acceptance of gaming as a legitimate jurisdictions according to the Department for leisure pursuit: Culture, Media and Sport, 19 of the 20 largest online gambling companies in the British market are based Developed and politically stable economies: and outside the UK.
Casinos and bingo clubs form the fourth and Clear identication of opportunities for Rank to fifth largest segments, with annual revenues of achieve positions of sustainable advantage through 0.8bn and 0.6bn respectively: while amusement the application of its approach to business.
Great Britain is by far the largest of Ranks markets, representing more than 90% of Group revenue in Political and regulatory changes 2011 12.
Revenues from Spain and Belgium have The Department for Culture, Media and Sport, fallen in recent years due to difficult operating which has responsibility for gaming and betting in conditions, with the need to adjust to social Great Britain, has announced two important reviews legislation smoking bans introduced during 2011 of regulation: and a prolonged period of economic weakness.
It is proposed that all online gaming companies targeting UK customers will be required to hold a remote gaming licence from the Gambling Great Britain Great Britain is one of the largest, longest established Commission.
This will replace the current regime where companies based in the European and most stable gaming and betting markets in Europe.
Cultural acceptance is high, with three in Union and certain other white-listed territories e. g. Gibraltar, Malta may operate within the four adults in Britain participating in at least one form of gambling, according to the British Gambling UK market without the need for a UK licence.
The results of a review into levels of stake and prize on slot machines are expected to be announced Gaming and betting revenue during 2013.
In July 2012, the Select Committee for Culture, Media and Sport released its report into the z National Lottery effectiveness of gambling regulation in Great Britain.
z Betting Shops The report set out a number of recommendations of z On-course particular interest to Rank: z Pools The reduction of bingo duty from 20% to 15% of z Casinos revenue, in order to achieve parity with general z Bingo Clubs betting duty, football pools duty and remote z Arcades gaming duty: z Lotteries z Online The extension of slot machine entitlements Source: Gambling Commission enjoyed by 2005 Act casinos to all casinos subject to licensing : and The National Lottery is the largest single sector of The ability to transfer casino licences from one the British gambling market, with total sales stakes area of the country to another, subject to local of more than 6bn and revenue before charitable authority approval.
donations and taxation of more than 3bn.
Further details of this report can be found in the chairman and chief executives review, page 7.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 12 DIRECTORS REPORT: MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED Tax changes Regulatory and tax changes HM Treasury has announced the reformation of During 2011 and 2012, Valencia, Navarre and slot machines taxation from February 2013.
The Aragon followed Madrid and the Basque region current regime, whereby operators pay 20% VAT in legalising sports betting.
Other autonomous as well as an annual licence fee per machine, communities possibly including Catalonia will be replaced with machine games duty.
As anticipated, HM Treasury has announced plans The first remote gambling licences were issued to apply remote gaming duty based upon the in June 2012.
Taxation on most forms of location of the consumer, rather than the location remote gaming and betting has been set at of the online business most are located outside 25% of revenue.
Under current plans, remote gaming duty During 2010 Madrid reduced the rate of taxation will migrate to a point of consumption basis from for bingo and in 2011 Galicia and Andalucia December 2014.
We expect that this change will followed suit.
In certain regions, bingo clubs may have a profound effect on the UK online and also offer internet-based games at lower rates of mobile gaming market.
Currently, UK remote taxation than those applied to traditional bingo.
gaming duty is set at 15% of revenue.
For more information, see Tax Fact File, page 53.
Belgium Belgium is a small but well-established and relatively Spain stable market for gambling.
Gaming and betting Despite the countrys recent economic difficulties, have been popular pursuits for centuries, with Spain remains one of the largest gaming markets the countrys first recorded lottery taking place in in Europe.
Participation is high and Spanish people 1465: whilst the eighteenth century casino at Spa tend on average to spend more on gaming activities is the oldest surviving establishment of its kind in than most of their European neighbours.
The present regime for gaming and betting was The gaming market has been impacted in recent born in 1977, following four decades of prohibition.
years by economic issues, political instability and the Gaming machines and lotteries SELAE and ONCE imposition of a smoking ban.
are the two national lottery operators are the most Remote gambling was legalised in 2012. popular forms, followed by bingo and casino games.
Responsibility for the regulation and taxation Regulatory and tax changes of the industry is largely devolved to the countrys In February 2012, the Commission des Jeux started 17 autonomous communities the largest of which issuing the countrys first remote gaming licences.
While this system has Online and mobile gaming licences are only resulted in a number of regional variances, it has also available to holders of conventional gaming created an environment for more gradual regulatory licences e. g. an online casino licence can only evolution than in some European countries.
be awarded to a holder of a casino venue licence.
Recent market developments have included the introduction of sports betting shops and internet Taxation for online gambling has been set at gambling.
Sports betting was first permitted in 11% of revenue.
This compares favourably with Madrid and the Basque region in 2008 and has the much higher rates for other forms of gambling since spread to Valencia, Navarre and Aragon.
The first national internet gaming licences were issued in June 2012, covering sports betting, casino games and other games including bingo.
At present, online slot-style games are not permitted in Spain.
As has been the case in other jurisdictions, the need to accommodate online and mobile gambling within the scope of the countrys laws has had an effect on Spains broader gaming regulations.
During 2011, net gaming expenditure in Spain fell by 1.5% to 9.2bn.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 13
