DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC OVERVIEW A PATH TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH We aim to deliver sustainable growth in earnings per share by stimulating and meeting demand for gaming-based entertainment.
e perceive that consumer spending Current status on games of chance as a form of Rank is the fifth largest regulated gambling business entertainment will continue to grow in Great Britain by revenue.
The Groups brands W both in Great Britain and globally capture approximately 6% share of the countrys and that in turn this will generate additional regulated gaming and betting market.
expenditure on related non-gaming activities.
During 2011 12, the Group continued to increase its market penetration, serving more than Strategy 2.3 million adults in Great Britain about 4% of Our strategy is to build a portfolio of vibrant the countrys adult population and 6% of those consumer brands, each dened in terms of specic who participate in some form of gambling.
Through the Our ability to distribute across multiple systematic use of customer insight and the channels venues, online and mobile is a source development of multi-channel distribution of competitive advantage.
During the year, the capabilities, we aim to capture a greater share of number of multi-channel customers increased by the gaming market: and to achieve additional 11,383 to 80,039. revenue growth from related non-gaming areas, Non-gaming revenue grew by 3.6% to 48.8m, based upon the needs of our customers.
The majority In the highly regulated sphere of gaming, of this revenue related to food and drink served in we recognise the need to engage effectively with our venues, although our brands also made progress governments to ensure that our economic and in developing a number of new sources of revenue.
societal contributions are understood and valued.
The 205m proposed acquisition of Gala Casinos Through this engagement, we seek to safeguard which remains subject to merger control clearance Ranks long-term ambitions by helping to shape will enhance our position by broadening both our a supportive regulatory and scal environment customer base and our distribution footprint.
Our core market is Great Britain, where we generate more than 90% of Group revenues.
In the medium term, our priority is to focus resource on strengthening our position in this market.
Brand strategies Across the Group we have adopted a three-stage approach to building and developing our brands 1 2 3 Systematic use of Capital investment to Multi-channel data and customer extend the reach and distribution of feedback broaden the distribution our brands of our brands The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 14
