Board of Directors and Executive Committee THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andr Lacroix French Amedeo Fasano Italian Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in EVP, Supply.
Joined in 1997 as Supply Director Adrian Bellamy British # October 2008.
He is Group Chief Executive Italy.
After the Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the of Inchcape plc and Chairman of Good merger, he was appointed Manufacturing Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive Restaurants AG.
He was previously Chairman Director for Central, South Western and Chairman in May 2003.
He is a Director of and CEO of Euro Disney, and has also held Southern Europe Regions.
In 2002 he became The Gap Inc and a Director and Chairman of positions at Burger King Diageo, Colgate, Regional Supply Director North America and in Williams-Sonoma Inc.
He was Chairman of PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP.
2003 SVP Supply North America, Australia and The Body Shop International plc until March New Zealand.
In 2007 he took over the role of 2008 and was formerly a director of various Graham Mackay British South African # SVP Supply Developing Markets and in March companies including Gucci Group NV and The Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2009 Amedeo was appointed as EVP Supply.
February 2005 and the Senior Independent He previously worked for Pirelli Tyres in multiple Director in November 2006.
He is the Executive Richard Cousins British Supply roles in Italy, Turkey, Argentina and UK.
Chairman of SABMiller plc, one of the worlds Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of largest brewers.
He will become Non-Executive Roberto Funari Brazilian the Company in October 2009.
He is CEO of Chairman of SABMiller in July 2013.
He joined EVP, LAPAC from 1 July 2013.
Rejoined in Compass Group plc, the worlds largest catering the then South African Breweries Limited in February 2013 following two years at Imperial company.
He was until 2006 CEO of BPB plc, 1978 and has held a number of senior positions Tobacco where he was Group Marketing having held a number of positions with that within that group.
He joined the Board of Philip Director and Executive Committee member.
He is a former NonMorris International Inc in October 2008.
In his prior 12-year career with the Group, Executive Director of P&O and HBOS.
Roberto held increasingly senior marketing and Judith Sprieser American # Dr Peter Harf German # general management roles in both emerging Was appointed a Non-Executive Director Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and developed markets, including Brazil, in August 2003 and has been Chair of the in 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He Netherlands, South Africa and Central Europe.
Remuneration Committee since June 2004. served as Chairman of the Remuneration His last role was as Global Category Officer for She was previously CEO of Transora, Inc. an Committee until June 2004.
Peter has been fabric and home care.
e-commerce software and service company and the CEO of Parentes Holding SE formerly Executive Vice President formerly CFO of Sara Rob fide Groot Dutch Joh.
A. Benckiser, a privately held investment Lee Corporation.
She is a Director of Allstate EVP, ENA.
After international company, since 1988 and a Director of Coty Insurance Company, InterContinental Exchange, roles in marketing and sales he became General Inc since 1996.
He has been the Chairman of Inc. Royal Ahold NV and Experian plc.
Manager The Netherlands, then SVP, Regional Labelux since 2008 and Chairman of the nonDirector Eastern Europe and was appointed profit DKMS foundation since 1991.
Warren Tucker British Global Category Officer, surface and dish Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Adrian Hennah British before being appointed EVP North America February 2010.
He has been CFO of Cobham Joined the Company in January 2013 as CFO & Australia.
Rob is responsible for North plc since 2003.
He is a chartered accountant Designate, and was appointed as Director and America, Northern Europe, Central Europe, and previously held senior finance positions at CFO on 12 February 2013.
He joined following Southern Europe and Western Europe and is Cable & Wireless plc and British Airways plc.
six years at Smith & Nephew plc as CFO.
Previously he was CFO at Invensys for four years Member of the Audit Committee Adrian Hennah British and spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc, Member of the Remuneration Committee Chief Financial Officer CFO.
where he held a number of senior management # Member of the Nomination Committee and financial roles.
Adrian has also previously Gareth Hill South African worked at PwC then Price Waterhouse in SVP, Information Services.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE audit and consultancy.
He is a Non-Executive Previously Information Systems Director at Director of Reed Elsevier PLC, and a member of Arcadia Group Ltd.
Prior to Arcadia, Gareth Heather Allen Canadian the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
was at IBM UK Ltd, Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd EVP, Category Development.
Joined in in South Africa and Arthur Andersen.
He is a 1996 from Procter & Gamble.
She undertook Kenneth Hydon British # qualified chartered accountant.
a number of senior marketing roles in Eastern Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Europe, before becoming Marketing Director December 2003 and Chairman of the Audit Rakesh Kapoor Indian US in 1999.
She was appointed General Committee in November 2006.
He is a Fellow Chief Executive Officer CEO.
Manager Canada in 2003 and joined the of the Chartered Institute of Management Simon Nash British global head office in the UK in 2006 as Global Accountants, the Association of Chartered SVP, Human Resources.
Joined in 2009 from Category Officer germ protection, surface Certified Accountants and the Association Novartis Consumer Health, where he was and personal care.
She was appointed to her of Corporate Treasurers.
He was the Senior Global Head of HR for the Consumer Health current role in May 2011.
Independent Non-Executive Director between division, based in Switzerland.
Simon started his February 2005 and November 2006.
He retired Salvatore Caizzone Italian international career with Procter & Gamble in as CFO of Vodafone Group plc in July 2005 EVP, RUMEA.
Joined in 1996, serving in several detergent manufacturing, before moving into and is a Non-Executive Director of Pearson plc.
roles in Italy, Russia & Baltics.
He was SVP Africa HR with Mars Confectionery.
He moved to New Kenneth retired from the Board of the Royal & Middle East region for eight years before York in 1993 with Kraft Foods International and Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust in April 2012 being appointed EVP, Europe.
Salvatore is then on to Chicago as HR Head of the office and from the Board of Tesco PLC in responsible for Russia & CIS, Middle East, North products subsidiary of Fortune Brands Inc. February 2013.
Africa, Turkey and Sub-Saharan Africa and is headquartered in Dubai.
Rakesh Kapoor Indian # Joined the Board in September 2011 following Freddy Caspers German his appointment as Chief Executive Officer EVP, LAPAC until 30 June 2013.
Joined in CEO of the Company.
He joined the Group 1997 as EVP for Eastern Europe.
Previously in 1987 serving in various regional and central at PepsiCo and Johnson & Johnson.
In 2001, he became SVP, various roles in Europe, US, Eastern Europe, Regional Director Northern Europe and was Turkey and the global head office.
Freddy is appointed EVP Category Development in responsible for Latin America, North Asia, 2006 with responsibility for global category South East Asia, and Australia and New management, R&D, media, market research Zealand, and is headquartered in Singapore.
