BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 20 21 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Operating review continued book of 152m including 34m of reservations on outlets in the The New Heritage Collection accounted for 67% of private London division: like-for-like, the value of the order book closed revenue in 2012 compared to 35% in the previous year, a 4% ahead.
proportion that is expected to rise further.
The average selling NewBuy price of the New Heritage Collection increased by 7% to There was relatively strong revenue growth across all regions.
95% Mortgages The North performed particularly well and grew to represent 30% of the Groups turnover, slightly ahead of the Central We continue to fine-tune the New Heritage Collection in Redrow was one of the first home builders to offer NewBuy, region: the South remained the largest region representing 42% response to customer feedback and opportunities to make build the Government backed initiative.
This was launched in of turnover.
cost savings without compromising the appeal and quality of the March this year in order to help kick-start the housing product.
We have also expanded the Collection to ensure we are market, with participating lenders providing up to 95% The use of Part Exchange continues to increase as we shift more able to offer a wider choice of types across all price ranges.
mortgages for buyers who meet their qualifying criteria.
of the business towards the trade-up market: in 2012 it The lenders are protected by a Mortgage Indemnity accounted for 16% of private sales.
We maintain tight Our new Regent Collection is an attractive higher density Guarantee MIG jointly funded by Redrow and the management controls over Part Exchange and held 9.7m of product designed to be plotted more formally, particularly in Government.
We also continued to use urban areas.
The Regent Collection has traditional Regency styled shared equity in 2012 particularly through the Government elevations complemented by interiors designed for modern-day The scheme is aimed to improve liquidity in the market, sponsored HomeBuy and FirstBuy schemes and where we have living.
We expect to have our first schemes underway in 2013. particularly helping those buying a home for the first time or partnership arrangements with local authorities.
We also with low levels of equity in their current home.
NewBuy is introduced NewBuy, the Government-backed mortgage Quality with Responsibility available on all new Redrow homes in England priced up to indemnity scheme, immediately following its launch in March.
At the heart of our operation is a determination to safely and 500,000.
The take-up so far has been disappointing with just 63 responsibly build homes of the highest standard for our customers choosing to use the scheme with many more customers.
We closely monitor and measure quality, Health and Redrow Customers Holly and Shaun Murdoch moved from a two-bedroom rented flat, into a brand new four-bedroom home on discouraged by the high interest rates charged by most of the Safety, our impact on the environment and levels of customer Redrows development in St. Neots, Cambridgeshire with only a 5% participating lenders.
deposit using the NewBuy scheme Published national house price indices reported prices falling Our key quality measure in addition to our own inspection slightly over the year with some regions fairing worse than regime, is the number of NHBC Reportable Items per inspection: others.
Our experience was that prices were generally stable in 2012 this was 0.19 2011: 0.25.
The number of our Site across much of our operating area.
The cancellation rate was Managers winning NHBC Pride in the Job Awards rose to a We continued to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction 2011: 207 to the Current land bank across nine sites.
We also 18% and in-line with the previous year.
Our own independent telephone surveys added over 2,600 plots through options or freehold purchases that managed to obtain feedback from over 70% of our after taking into account a strategic review that identified a Digital marketing is now the dominant source of enquiries and By all measures we improved our Health and Safety performance customers, recorded 94% 2011: 93% were very satisfied or number of sites where the prospects for delivery had leads into the business.
We launched an upgraded website in the in what was a busy year for the build teams.
Reportable and First satisfied with their new home and 97% 2011: 96% would deteriorated.
At the end of the year we held c. 22,800 plots in the second-half which helped to increase enquiries and leads to our Aid accidents decreased by over 20% of which only eight were recommend us to a friend.
Our leading customer satisfaction Forward land bank that are either allocated or have a realistic developments.
The new website is more interactive, easier to classified as major, a 27% decrease.
The Group Accident position was further endorsed by once again receiving a five star prospect of coming forward.
Although pulling through Forward navigate and contains significantly more video content with links Incident Rate AIR also fell by 27% and is below the award in the most recent HBF National New Home Customer land remains a lengthy and unpredictable process, we expect to to our own internet TV channel, RedrowTV.
The Group was awarded its third Satisfaction Survey.
Amongst many other awards received in the have another successful year in 2013.
Gold Medal by RoSPA for achieving seven consecutive Gold year, we were voted Best Large Housebuilder by What House?
The Gold Medal is widely recognised as the most The National Planning Policy Framework NPPF was introduced Apartments accounted for less than 10% of private sales prestigious Health and Safety award.
Land and Planning earlier in the year and sets out to deliver a more efficient locally turnover in 2012 2011: 19.7% as the revenue from houses based planning system.
Central to its success will be the extent We added 3,642 plots to the owned land bank in the year which increased by 23% to represent over 90% of sales.
This trend will We take seriously our responsibility to minimise the impact of after deducting legal completions, increased the owned land to which local authorities embrace the policy and timely produce reverse over time as more apartment schemes come on-stream, our business on the environment.
We regularly monitor our Local Development Frameworks that recognise the underlying bank to 10,704 2011: 9,520.
At the end of the year we held particularly in and around London.
carbon footprint and look at ways to ensure any increase in 1,652 plots under contract, a similar level to the previous year level of demand for housing in their areas.
We are optimistic the emissions is at a slower pace than the overall growth in output NPPF will lead to a better planning system: meanwhile, there are 2011: 1,670.
The Current land bank remains weighted to the Social housing accounted for 13.5% of unit sales and just 7% of of the business.
We responsibly procure materials and last year south representing 43% of plots owned or held under contract.
grey areas over interpretation that will only be resolved through revenue, similar to the previous year: we expect to see levels of we maintained our excellent performance in buying our timber the appeals process.
We have already had appeals successfully social housing gradually increase as new sites come on-stream.
from well managed sources: 99.3% of timber products used on We had a very successful year in pulling-through plots from the upheld and have a number of decisions pending.
The average selling price of social housing completions was our sites were classified Licensed Source Credibly Certified by Forward into the Current land bank.
BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 22 23 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Operating review continued London The London division achieved its first completions in 2012 at Ealing and commenced construction at One Commercial Street, Apprentices Case Study One Commercial Street, London Aldgate and at Kingston Riverside.
It also gained planning permission to convert Connaught Place, W2 into a development Redrow has 69 apprentices at June 2012, 21% of whom Redrow made a dramatic entry into the prime London of luxury apartments.
are studying towards an advanced level within their residential market with the launch of its One Commercial respective trades.
These consist of 25 prospective Street development in Aldgate, one of Londons up and One Commercial Street is a mixed-use high rise scheme consisting of retail and office space and residential apartments.
bricklayers, carpenters, plumbers and electricians who coming hotspots.
joined the programme during the year to June 2012 and The residential element was successfully launched overseas in the Far East earlier in the year and was 40% sold at the year-end.
we plan a further intake of 20 in September 2012.
The site was acquired in January 2012 and is located on the edge of the City of London, in Zone 1 and is a distinctive Completions are expected to come through in 2014.
Many of our successful apprentices are offered landmark 21 storey building.
The ground to 6th floor permanent positions with our subcontractors on contains over 100,000 sq.
ft. of Retail and Commercial space.
Kingston Riverside was successfully launched in the UK in the late spring and is selling steadily to the local market.
Kingston completion of their apprenticeships.
A number are Floors 7 to 11 are occupied by 70 Affordable homes and accepted onto our trainee assistant site manager floors 12 to 21 will be 137 Private properties.
The private Heights, a further phase that targets a different market segment is expected to be launched in 2013. programme, which produced six assistant site managers dwellings are a collection of studios, 1, 2 and 3 bedroom this year.
In addition the site The London division remains on-track to contribute to Group benefits from secure basement car parking.
profits in financial year 2014 with the first legal completions expected from Kingston in the first-half of that year.
Redrow acquired the site in a partially completed state.
The concrete frame of the building had been constructed by the Harrow previous owners to the 11th floor with Redrow recommencing work on site in March 2012.
Completion of Harrow performed strongly in the year making good progress on planning, bringing forward sites for development and acquiring the building is anticipated in the summer of 2014. new land.
Following a successful launch in the Far East in February this year, over 40% of the private properties were exchanged for Planning permission for c. 350 plots was achieved at appeal on the option it holds at Horsforth, Leeds and it has a number of sale.
One Commercial Street was then launched in the UK at a spectacular event at The Gherkin.
A contract with Network other sites pending decisions.
It also completed the remediation of the South Cerney site in the Cotswolds which has now been Stadium Housing Association Ltd for the Affordable apartments was exchanged in March 2012. transferred to the Homes division.
Physical remediation works are complete at Hauxton near Cambridge and currently the subject of on-going monitoring.
The site is held under an Option which is expected to be exercised in 2013.
One Commercial Street, Aldgate The business has acquired a further four sites with capacity for c. 1,000 plots.
Most notable of the acquisitions is the Woodford Aerodrome near Stockport where consent is being sought to create a new Garden Village of 550 homes on the land we own People have a dedicated training team based at our purpose built together with supporting community infrastructure.
We continue to create new jobs to meet the planned growth of facility in the Midlands and completed 2,302 days of training in the business.
Our directly employed workforce has increased to the year 2011: 2,267.
Harrow oversees the Groups modest legacy of commercial 952 2011: 888, including five Graduate Trainees and 69 interests and managed to achieve a small number of disposals Apprentices at June 2012 as we expand opportunities for young during the year.
people to join our industry.
We plan a further intake of five Graduate Trainees and 20 Apprentices in September 2012.
John Tutte Some of this year's new intake of 20 apprentices, bringing the We are committed to having a skilled workforce and developing Group Managing Director number recruited in the last 10 years to more than 250 our future managers and leaders from within the business.
