BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 08 09 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 The New Heritage Collection is now firmly established as Chairmans our primary brand and accounted for 67% of our private statement turnover during the year.
The Buckingham housetype from the New Heritage Collection Steve Morgan Chairman Introduction The higher operating profit, combined with the lower interest I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered its third expense, resulted in a pre-tax profit up 70% to 43m and an consecutive year of significant growth in profitability despite the adjusted earnings per share up 80% to 10.8p 2011: 6.0p.
During the year we have further As reported in the placing and open offer document issued in strengthened the balance sheet through a 78m share placing April 2012, the Board is not proposing a dividend for the 2012 and open offer, which was concluded in May 2012. financial year but, subject to economic circumstances, the Board intends to resume the payment of dividends in the current Financial Results financial year.
Group revenue increased 5.8% to 479m for the financial year, predominantly due to a 15% increase in our average selling price Market from 164,800 to 189,900.
The average selling price of private The housing market has been stable throughout the last financial homes increased by 17% to 204,100.
Legal completions for the year.
Sales rate per outlet per week increased from 0.54 in 2011 year were marginally up to 2,458.
Excluding London, the value of private completed 2,424 homes, excluding the Scottish operation which reservations rose by 4% from 416m to 434m, due a change in was sold during that year.
mix towards larger family homes.
Gross margins rose from 14.2% to 17.3% due to an increasing The New Heritage Collection is now firmly established as our proportion of our sales being generated from sites purchased primary brand and accounted for 67% of our private turnover since the downturn, on which more normal margins are being during the year 2011: 35%.
The average selling price of a New generated, together with improved product mix and stable build Heritage home is now 215,100, an increase of 7% on the costs.
We also benefited from 12.2m of land and freehold previous year.
reversion sales at very good margins.
The opening of new outlets remains a priority and we ended the As a result of the increasing gross margins and land sale year with 82 outlets, up from 74 last year.
We are planning a contribution, operating profit rose 54% to 48m, representing a further increase to over 90 outlets by the end of the current 10% margin 2011: 6.9%.
This was achieved despite the ongoing financial year.
overhead investment in our new London Division.
BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 10 11 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Chairmans statement continued We completed the first two houses in our London Division at As stated above, the Groups forward land bank contributed Current Trading and Outlook Ealing and commenced construction on our first two major 2,000 plots to current land.
Several new opportunities have been Reservations per outlet in the current year are running flatted schemes, One Commercial Street in Aldgate and Kingston secured and the forward land bank now stands at 22,800 plots, fractionally ahead of last year at 0.55 sales per outlet 2011: Riverside in Kingston upon Thames.
The sales launch of the two an increase of 650 plots over last year.
In the year to date we have been selling on an average of schemes were successfully received both in the UK as well as have been allocated in adopted or emerging Local Plans.
84 outlets 2011: 73 and as a result we have secured 507 overseas and I am pleased to report that at the end of June we private reservations in the first 11 weeks, some 16% ahead of had over 70 reservations across the two sites with a total value Mortgages last year.
Unfortunately mortgage availability, or should I say, lack of it, remains the main drag to housing market recovery.
The spring Despite the encouraging start to the year and the recent Balance Sheet saw the introduction of the Government sponsored NewBuy Government Housing and Growth announcement, the outlook In May 2012 we further strengthened our balance sheet with the scheme, a Mortgage Indemnity Guarantee MIG which provides for the industry remains challenging.
Supply of mortgages, successful placing and open offer, which raised a net 78m.
This purchasers of new homes with the ability to secure a 95% although slightly improved on last year, remains a significant had the effect of reducing our gearing to just 2% by the year mortgage.
The initiative has been strongly welcomed by the constraint, as does public confidence due to the countrys fragile end.
Gearing has risen substantially during the current financial industry: unfortunately, however, the rates being offered by economic state.
Nevertheless, we have an excellent product year as we continue to invest in the business by increasing the lenders still do not reflect the lower risk profile of the scheme range and a strong pipeline of new sites, which gives me every work in progress in London and taking advantage of appropriate and as such NewBuy has not yet enjoyed the success it deserves.
confidence that Redrow will continue along its path of improving land opportunities.
In more normal times new home sales have fluctuated between Land and Planning 11-15% of total housing transactions: ironically, during the last We enjoyed a number of land successes during the year and have four years, that percentage has increased.
The new homes market secured a total of 4,100 plots, largely on the back of a significant needs a buoyant second hand market in order to obtain a 2,000 plot contribution from forward land.
The land bank at the meaningful growth and deliver the increasing numbers that the Steve Morgan end of June 2012 equates to 12,350 plots June 2011: 11,190 Government, and indeed the country, desperately needs.
The average plot cost is 50,000, including central London for the housing market to make a full recovery there would need 18 September 2012 and 44,000, excluding central London.
The increase in average to be a MIG similar to NewBuy available to the second hand plot cost over the last few years reflects Redrows continuing market.
movement to re-establish ourselves as a premium mid-market home builder of larger than average, high specification, homes.
People Since my return to the business just over three years ago we Despite the increasing land bank the Group still retains several have initiated the reintroduction of apprentices of all types, a sites where it is not economic to develop.
We strongly welcome, graduate training programme and numerous management therefore, the Governments housing initiative announced two trainee programmes.
This represents a large investment in our weeks ago which relaxes the requirement for affordable housing people and just over 11% of our total workforce are now on those sites where viability is in question.
I am delighted that Redrow is once again at the other initiatives, particularly the extension of FirstBuy, will, I forefront of our industry for training its people.
believe, have a positive effect on the delivery of new homes.
Planning remains a major obstacle to development despite the Redrow has continued to make excellent progress during the last Governments best efforts with the publication of the National year, primarily due to the ongoing efforts of our people.
The Government is determined that like to thank them for their hard work during the year and their planning ceases to be a major obstacle to growth and we continued support in the successful delivery of our strategic strongly welcome the recent initiatives.
