Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 91 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of the 2012 ReedElsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in conjunction with the financial year, the Committees have: Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc the Committees i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier Group and has been approved by the respective Boards.
It provides an plc group financial controller that set out areas of signicance overview of the membership, responsibilities and activities of in the preparation of the financial statements, including: the Committees.
The functions of an audit committee in respect review of the carrying values of goodwill and intangible of the nancing activities are carried out by the Supervisory assets, disposals, application of revenue recognition and Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and costcapitalisation policies, review of uncertain tax positions, Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees full their roles from the provisions for lease obligations, and the use of the going perspective of the parent companies and both Committees have concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
access to the reports to and the work of the Reed Elsevier Group The Committees also received written reports from the plc Audit Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV external auditors summarising the most significant findings Supervisory Board in this respect.
Membership ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance The Committees comprise at least three independent withapplicable accounting standards and other disclosure Non-Executive Directors.
The members of each of the requirements and received regular update reports on Committees that served during the year are: Ben van der Veer accounting and regulatory developments.
Chairman of the Committees, Sir David Reid, Adrian Hennah, iii received and discussed regular reports from the Reed Lisa Hook until May 2012 and Linda Sanford from appointment Elsevier Group plc chief risk officer and director of internal inDecember 2012.
SirDavid Reid and Adrian Hennah, both UK audit summarising the status of Reed Elsevier risk chartered accountants, and Ben van der Veer, a registered management activities and the findings from internal audit accountant in the Netherlands, are considered to have significant, reviews and the actions agreed with management.
Areas recent and relevant financial experience.
Sir David Reid has offocus in 2012 included: management of investment served on the Audit Committees for more than nine years and after programmes: regulatory compliance and review of having determined that he remained independent in character and information security including the management of data judgement and there were also no relationships or circumstances privacy: business continuity planning: and continued which are likely to affect his independent judgement, he has compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the remained a member of the Audit Committees to allow for an USSarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation orderly transition to newly appointed directors.
andtesting of internal controls over financial reporting.
Responsibilities iv reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2012 The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are to assist andmonitored execution, including progress in respect of the respective Boards in fullling their oversight responsibilities recommendations made.
Reviewed the resources, terms of regarding the integrity of Reed Elseviers interim and financial reference and effectiveness of the Reed Elsevier Group plc statements and reporting process, risk management and internal risk management and internal audit functions.
controls, the external auditors effectiveness, performance, v received presentations from: the Reed Elsevier Group plc qualications and independence and the performance of the chief compliance officer on the compliance programmes, internal auditors.
The Committees report to the respective Boards including the operation of Reed Elseviers codes of conduct, on their activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they training programmes, whistleblowing arrangements and consider that action or improvement is needed and making procedures in respect of the UK Bribery Act requirements: recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
the Reed Elsevier Inc. general counsel on the management The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed ofdata privacy, security and compliance: the Reed Elsevier annually and a copy of each is published on the Reed Elsevier Group plc IT security officer on information technology website, www.
security: and the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer on legal issues and claims.
Principal activities vi received updates from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group The Committees met five times during 2012.
The Audit Committee treasurer on pension arrangements and funding, treasury meetings are typically attended by the Chief Executive officer, the policies and risk management, compliance with treasury Chief Financial officer, the Reed Elsevier Group plc group financial policies, and global insurance arrangements.
controller, the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer, chief riskofcer and director of internal audit, and audit partners of the vii received presentations from the Reed Elsevier Group plc external auditors.
Additionally, the managing director and senior head of group taxation on tax policies and related matters.
representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance viii received regular updates from the chief financial officer on BV attend the July and February meetings of the parent company developments within the finance function.
ix received presentations on a rotational basis from the chief financial ofcers of major businesses on the priorities for thenance functions and the risk management and internal control activities.
GOVERNANCE 92 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEES External audit effectiveness The Committees have monitored regulatory developments in Reed Elsevier has a well established policy on audit effectiveness the UK and the Netherlands and will consider auditor tender and independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the and rotation in line with the transitional arrangements set out responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection of in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and recent Dutch auditors to be proposed for appointment or reappointment and for legislation.
Any further developments in 2013 will be studied agreement on the terms of their engagement and the scope of the whenconsidering the appointment of auditors for future years.
annual audit: the auditor independence requirements and the The Committees conducted an annual review during 2012 of the policy on the provision of non audit services: the rotation of audit performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of partners and staff: and the conduct of meetings between the the external audit process for the year ended 31 December 2011. auditors and the Audit Committees.
The policy is available on the Based on this review, and on their subsequent observations Reed Elsevier website, www.
on the planning and execution of the external audit for the year ended 31 December 2012, the Committees have recommended The auditors are precluded from engaging in non audit services to the respective Boards that resolutions for the reappointment that would compromise their independence or violate any of the external auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Annual professional requirements or regulations affecting their General Meetings.
Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide non BV or their predecessor Deloitte rms were first appointed audit services which do not conict with their independence, and respectively auditors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV where their skills and experience make them a logical supplier, for the financial year ended 31 December 1994.
In addition to the subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees.
The Committees annual review of the performance of the external auditors and have, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the non audit services the effectiveness of the audit process, at least every four years, provided in 2012, together with the associated fees which are the Committees will consider whether the objectives of the audit set out in note 3 to the combined financial statements.
The non would be better served through a formal tender process for the audit services provided were in the areas of tax compliance, due auditor appointment.
diligence and other transaction related services.
In compliance with recent Dutch regulatory developments, from 2013 non The effectiveness of the operation of the Audit Committees was audit services performed in the Netherlands will be limited to reviewed as part of the effectiveness review of the Boards in audit related activities, subject to transitional arrangements for February 2013. engagements already in progress.
The Committees will consider Ben van der Veer further policy amendments during the course of 2013 as the scope Chairman of the Audit Committees of this regulatory change is claried.
27 February 2013 The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partners responsible for the audit engagements every five years.
The lead engagement partner for Reed Elsevier PLC has now completed his fourth year of auditing Reed Elseviers financial statements and the lead engagement partner for Reed Elsevier NV has completed three years.
Any decision to open the audit to tender is taken only on the recommendation of the Committees.
The external auditors have confirmed their independence and compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor independence.
