BUSINESS REVIEW 18 RISK SOLUTIONS & BUSINESS INFORMATION Risk Solutions & Business Information functions including compliance and marketing.
A number of In Risk Solutions & Business transactional support activities, including some financial processes, are provided from a shared services organisation Information, we provide data, managed by the LexisNexis Legal & Professional business.
TheLegal & Professional business also distributes Risk Solutions analytics and insight that enable products into legal markets in the US and internationally.
customers to evaluate and Insurance Solutions provides a comprehensive combination of data and analytics to property and casualty P&C personal and manage risks, and develop market commercial insurance and life insurance carriers in the US to improve critical aspects of their business, from customer intelligence, supporting more acquisition and underwriting to claims handling.
Information solutions, including the USs most comprehensive personal loss con dent decisions, improved history database, C. L. U. E. help insurers assess risks and provide important inputs to pricing and underwriting insurance policies.
economic outcomes, and Additional key products include Data Prefill, which provides critical information on customers, potential customers and their auto enhanced operational ef ciency.
ownership directly into the insurance work ow, and Current Carrier, which identi es current or previous insurance as well asany lapses in coverage.
Risk Solutions Business Services provides financial institutions with risk LexisNexis Risk Solutions is a leading provider of solutions that management, identity management, fraud detection, credit risk combine proprietary, public and third-party information, with management, and compliance solutions.
These include know advanced technology and analytics.
These solutions assist your customer and anti-money laundering products.
The customers in evaluating, predicting and managing risk and business also provides risk and identity management solutions improving operational effectiveness, predominantly in the US.
forcorporate customers in retail, telecommunications and Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 926m.
Receivables management solutions help debt LexisNexis Risk Solutions is headquartered in Alpharetta, recovery professionals in the segmentation, management and Georgia, has principal operations in Georgia, Florida, and Ohio, collection of consumer and business debt.
Government Solutions provides data and analytics to US federal, LexisNexis Risk Solutions is organised around market facing state and local law enforcement and government agencies to help industry sector groups: insurance, business services including solve criminal and intelligence cases and to identify fraud, waste the financial services, receivables management and corporate and abuse in government programmes.
The most signi cant of these is The Risk Solutions business also provides risk-related information insurance.
These groups are supported by a shared infrastructure to the legal industry through LexisNexis Legal & Professional.
for technology operations, data management, and other support Risk Solutions C. L. U. E. LexisNexis Data 3re ll LexisNexis Current Carrier Database that identi es the existence of Most comprehensive US personal insurance Tool to automate insurance application current or previous insurance, and whether claims database process providing critical information or not the applicant has had a possible lapse insurers need to quote and underwrite incoverage apolicy LexisNexis Anti-Money LexisNexis Laundering Solutions Accurint for Collections Identity Management Content and information for anti-money The leading online US solution to help locate Range of solutions to help clients verify that laundering compliance, risk mitigation debtors quickly and accurately an identity exists and authenticate individuals andenhanced due diligence LexisNexis RiskView LexisNexis Revenue Recovery and Discovery Comprehensive suite of credit risk Suite of tools to enable governments to leverage public records and management tools to help assess consumer analytics to identify instances offraud and to more ef ciently collect creditworthiness and risk potential onoutstanding debts Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 19 Risk Solutions continues to focus on developing a pipeline of Market opportunities newsolutions to drive growth in selected adjacent markets and Risk Solutions operates in markets with strong long-term geographies.
For example, in the UK, Risk Solutions has launched underlying growth drivers including: insurance underwriting a new product that uses public information to help insurers assess transactions: insurance, healthcare, tax and entitlement fraud: and segment risk more effectively among motor insurance credit defaults and financial fraud: regulatory compliance and customers and is planning to launch additional innovative duediligence requirements surrounding customer enrolment: products to facilitate sharing of data across motor insurers, and security considerations.
improving insurers ability to understand underwriting risks.
In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing Inthe government segment, customers are adopting fraud transactional activity in the auto, property and life insurance detection, waste, and abuse solutions, which enable government markets and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of agencies to identify incidences of tax and benets fraud, and boost more sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, revenue collections.
Risk Solutions has also continued to broaden underwriting and claims evaluation processes, to assess its portfolio of identity management solutions, including underwriting risk, increase competitiveness and improve one-time-password and biometric solutions, and has made operating cost efficiency.
Transactional activity is driven by existing identity products more congurable to address the product extensions across insurance carriers workow and specic needs of customers across our market segments.
growth in insurance quoting, as consumers seek better policy The identity verication and risk evaluation solutions provided by terms.
This activity is stimulated by increasing competition Risk Solutions utilise a comprehensive database of public records between insurance companies, high levels of carrier advertising, and proprietary information with more than 2,000 terabytes of and rising levels of internet quoting and policy binding.
unique data, which makes it the largest database of its kind in the A number of factors support growth for risk solutions in the US market today.
LexisNexis Accurint is a agship product, financial services market, including new credit originations, powered by the High Performance Computing Cluster HPCC continued high fraud losses, stringent regulatory compliance technology.
This market-leading technology enables Risk requirements, and increasing anti-money laundering fines.
In Solutions to provide its customers with highly relevant search receivables management, demand is driven mainly by levels of results swiftly and to create new, low-cost solutions quickly and consumer debt and the prospect of recovering that debt, which efficiently.
It is also increasingly used across other Reed Elsevier isimpacted by employment conditions in the US.
In corporate markets such as Legal and scientific, Technical & Medical.
markets, demand is supported by growth in online retail sales and In January 2013, Risk Solutions announced the sale of its continued high levels of credit card fraud.
Growth in government Screening business.
This will allow it to increase its focus on markets is driven by the increasing use of data and analytics to higher-growth segments leveraging its core data, technology and combat criminal activity, fraud and tax evasion, and to address analytical capabilities.
The Screening business presented limited security issues.
The level and timing of demand in this market is opportunities to apply these capabilities to generate unique influenced by government funding and revenue considerations.
customer value, sustained growth, and superior margins.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY SEGMENT 926m 926m Print Other 4% Government Screening Electronic Insurance 96% Solutions Business Services BUSINESS REVIEW 20 RISK SOLUTIONS & BUSINESS INFORMATION Strategic priorities Risk Solutions strategic goal is to make businesses and government more effective, through a better understanding oftherisks associated with individuals, other businesses and transactions and by providing the highest quality tools to help manage those risks efficiently and cost effectively.
To achieve this, Risk Solutions is focused on: delivering innovative new products across customer workows: expanding the range of risk management solutions across adjacent markets: addressing international opportunities in selected markets to meet local risk management needs: and continuing to strengthen its content, technology, and analytical capabilities.
Business model, distribution channels and competition Risk Solutions products are predominantly sold directly, with pricing mostly on a transactional basis for insurance carriers andcorporations, and primarily on a subscription basis for government entities.
Risk Solutions and Verisk, a competitor, each sell data and analytics solutions to insurance carriers but largely address different activities.
Risk Solutions principal competitors in commercial and government segments include Thomson Reuters and major credit bureaus, in many cases addressing different activities in these segments aswell.
GROWTH IN FRAUD PREVENTION TRANSACTIONS GROWTH IN INSURANCE CLAIMS TRANSACTIONS 17% 30% 2011 2012 2011 2012 Increasing penetration of the insurance carrier workow with uptake of Growth in fraud prevention transactions driven by increasing need to products to investigate claims, adjudicate them quickly and identify fraud identify and prevent fraud.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 21 2012 2011 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 926 908 2% 1% 6% Adjusted operating profit 392 362 8% 7% 6% All Risk Solutions market segments now leverage HPCC, 2012 financial performance our proprietary big data technology, to combine proprietary, Underlying revenue growth accelerated slightly in 2012 as we public, and third party information with advanced analytics to extended our data & analytics solutions across risk markets, helpcustomers in evaluating, predicting, and managing risk driving strong growth in both Insurance and Business Services, andimproving efficiency.
The business is already virtually and a return to growth in the Government segment.
improvement in adjusted operating profit margin largely In January 2013 we announced the disposal of the Screening reects the impact of disposals, with underlying cost growth business, which has been excluded from underlying revenue broadly matching revenue growth, reecting ongoing spend growth gures.
If Screening had been included in the underlying on new product development.
results, the underlying revenue growth rate for Risk Solutions Underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits both grew 6%.
as a whole would still have been 6%.
The Insurance business grew underlying revenues by 7%, with Underlying cost growth was broadly in line with revenue growth solid growth reecting the extension of products and services in2012, reecting spend on new products and content sets.
across the insurance carrier workow, and expansion in new Theadjusted operating profit margin increased by 2.4 percentage market segments.
The international launches progressed well points, largely reecting the impact of portfolio changes in 2011. in2012, albeit on a scale that was not material to Risk Solutions overall.
2013 Outlook Risk Solutions operates in markets with strong long-term Business Services revenue growth accelerated to 7%.
In financial underlying growth drivers, and we will continue to invest in services, the anti-money laundering, fraud detection and credit newproducts that leverage our leading content and expertise decisioning solutions all performed well, and revenues were inbigdata analytics and extend our services across customer positively impacted by some temporary effects of increased workows.
We expect continued good growth in the Insurance mortgage renancing activities.
Our receivables management andBusiness Services market segments, and mixed business remained soft.
The Government business returned to growth in 2012 reecting good demand for new fraud detection products in the state & localsegment, with continuing moderate declines in the federalsegment.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m 927 392 908 926 362 354 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 On a pro forma basis LexisNexis Risk Solutions and LexisNexis Legal & Professional, previously combined as one LexisNexis business, have operated as two distinct businesses from 1 January 2011.
Comparative profit gures for 2010 are presented on a pro forma basis.
BUSINESS REVIEW 22 RISK SOLUTIONS & BUSINESS INFORMATION $24m GEORGIA DEPLOYED THE LEXISNEXIS TAX REFUND INVESTIGATIVE SOLUTION IN JANUARY 2012, AND TO DATE IT HAS ALREADY HELPED SAVE NEARLY $24M FOR ITS TAXPAYERS.
TAX REFUND INVESTIGATIVE SOLUTION: WORKING TOGETHER TO PREVENT IDENTITY-BASED FRAUD Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 23 About Tax Refund Investigative Solution LexisNexis Tax Refund Investigative Solution combines proven identity authentication tools with advanced linking and analytics capabilities to help federal and state governments detect fraudulent tax refund claims and identify potentially millions of dollars in lost tax revenues.
LOOKING AT THE NUMBERS, I THINK THE IMPACT IS HUGE.
WE LAUNCHED OUR ANTI-FRAUD PROGRAM TO STOP TAX REFUND FRAUD IN GEORGIA.
BY Fraud is a growing problem in the US and around the LEVERAGING BEST PRACTICES AND world.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions is helping the State Department of Revenue and Tax in Georgia protect ENHANCING OUR EXISTING SYSTEM its citizens from identity-based fraud.
Georgia WITH AN IDENTITY-BASED APPROACH deployed the LexisNexis Tax Refund Investigative TO FINDING FRAUD, WE ARE Solution in January 2012, and to date it has already PROTECTING BOTH THE TAXPAYERS helped save $24m for its taxpayers.
The success of the Georgia programme demonstrates the value LexisNexis Risk Solutions delivers to its Doug MacGinnitie customers.
The Georgia Department of Revenue and LexisNexis Risk Solutions are now looking to develop Georgia Department of their partnership further, working together to identify Revenue Commissioner and prevent benets fraud.
BUSINESS REVIEW 24 RISK SOLUTIONS & BUSINESS INFORMATION RBIs market leading data services include: ICIS, an information Business Information and pricing service in chemicals, fertilisers and energy: BankersAccuity, a provider of payment routing data, anti-money Reed Business Information RBI provides data services, laundering AML services and compliance information to the information and marketing solutions to business professionals banking and corporate sectors: XpertHR, an online service across industries globally.
It produces industry critical data providing regulatory guidance, best practices and tools for HR services and lead generation tools, online community sites as professionals: and Reed Construction Data, a provider of online wellas business magazines with market leading positions in construction data and information to the construction industry.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 663m.
RBIs leading brands include New Scientist, Farmers Weekly, RBIis a global business headquartered in Sutton in the UK and Estates Gazette, Elsevier magazine and Boerderij.
Online marketing inaddition has principal operations in London, Amsterdam, solutions include emedia, an email bulletin based lead generation Skokie Illinois, Norcross Georgia and Boston Massachusetts service and BuyerZone, a web-based request for quotation RFQ in the US, as well as Paris, Milan and Shanghai.
In 2012, RBI continued to reshape its portfolio signi cantly, addressing continued growth opportunities in data services while RBIs customers use its data services to help make key exiting areas not core to its paid content strategy.
In addition, strategicdecisions and reduce risk, to improve productivity and performance and identify new business opportunities.
RBIs thebusiness continued to focus on cost ef ciency across the magazines and websites deliver high value news, information traditional publishing businesses.
andopinion to business professionals across many industry As part of this strategy RBI sold Totaljobs Group, comprising seven sectors while also providing an effective marketing channel for recruitment job boards, created organically by RBI.
RBIs online marketing solutions bring buyers and to create value from its existing magazine brands, while exiting a sellers together through a range of innovative digital channels.
number of titles including Variety, the entertainment market title in the US, and those in the electronics and catering markets in the UK.
In January 2013, RBI announced that it had completed the sale of RBI Australia.
RBI is in a process to exit its operations in Spain.
Global provider of news, price benchmarks, Data, news and advisory services for Payment routing data, AML services data, analytics and research to the energy, professionals working in the global andcompliance tools for the banking chemical and fertiliser industries aviation industry andcorporate sectors worldwide Provider of actionable insight for the Online services with reference data, News, data and research services for the construction industry through cost data, compliance information and good practice UKcommercial property industry project leads, market intelligence and guides for HR professionals marketing solutions Worlds leading science and technology Leading news and opinion magazine Digital lead generation services in the US, mediabrand intheNetherlands UK and Europe Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 25 Market opportunities Data services are typically sold directly on a subscription or The growing need for high quality industry data and information is transactional basis.
Business magazines are mainly distributed driving demand for online subscription data services and providing on a paid basis.
Advertising and lead generation revenues are new opportunities.
Business-to-business marketing spend has solddirectly or through agents.
historically been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which RBIs data services and titles compete with a number of publishers itself has followed GDP growth, and business investment.
on a service and title-by-title basis including: UBM, McGraw Hill and Wolters Kluwer as well as many niche and privately-owned Strategic priorities competitors.
RBI competes for online advertising with other RBIs strategic goal is to help business professionals achieve business-to-business websites as well as Google and other better outcomes with information and decision support in its search engines.
Its areas of strategic focus are: further growing the data services businesses: restructuring the businessmagazines and advertising-driven portfolio: developingpaid content services in key markets and supportingprint franchises through brand extensions and redesign: anddriving further organisational effectiveness.
Business model, distribution channels and competition Across the RBI portfolio, user and subscription revenues now account for 69% of the total business with the remaining 31% derived from print and online advertising and lead generation.
RBIelectronic revenue streams now account for 54% of total revenue.
ELECTRONIC REVENUE USER AND SUBSCRIPTION REVENUE 54% 69% 51% 62% 59% 46% 54% 38% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Demand for online data services and marketing solutions drives increasing Increasing proportion of user and subscription revenues driven by organic proportion of online revenues.
growth in subscription businesses and portfolio change.
REVENUE BY SEGMENT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC MARKET 663m 663m Rest of World Other Business North America Magazines & Services Major Data Services Rest of Europe UK Marketing Solutions Leading Brands Netherlands BUSINESS REVIEW 26 RISK SOLUTIONS & BUSINESS INFORMATION 2012 2011 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 663 695 -5% -3% 2% Adjusted operating profit 119 110 8% 10% 10% We have continued to exit businesses that no longer t our strategy, 2012 financial performance including Totaljobs, Marketcast, Variety, RBI Australia, RBI Spain, Improved underlying revenue growth in 2012 reects strong and a number of small businesses in other markets.
growth from most of our Major Data Services businesses, In 2012 we continued to focus on process innovation which, together modest growth in Marketing Solutions and Leading Brands, with the benets of portfolio development, helped to increase the anda moderation in the rate of decline in Other Business adjusted operating profit margin by 2.2 percentage points to an Magazines & Services.
In 2012 we continued the transformation historic high of 18%.
of the business, exiting businesses that no longer t our strategy.
Wehave remained focused on process efficiencies These actions have contributed to the transformation of Reed which, together with portfolio development benets, drove Business Informations prole, with user and subscription services a 2.2 percentage point margin improvement.
now accounting for nearly 70% of revenues, and electronic revenue streams now accounting for over half of the total.
Underlying revenues grew 2%, and underlying adjusted operating profits grew 10%.
In December 2012 we reorganised our management structure to bring LexisNexis Risk Solutions and Reed Business Information Double digit growth at BankersAccuity and ICIS helped to drive together more closely in order to continue to build out Risk growth in Major Data Services, only held back by continued Solutions rapidly growing business globally.
We plan to leverage weakness in US construction data.
Major Data Services now Risk Solutions strength in data, analytics and technology in accounts for approximately 45% of continuing portfolio pro forma combination with Reed Business Informations broader geographic revenues and the majority of Reed Business Information footprint and industry specic databases.
2013 Outlook Marketing Solutions delivered modest growth in 2012 and, Demand for data & analytics in our market segments continues to following the disposal of Totaljobs and Hotfrog, accounts for grow, although print and advertising revenues remain weak.
In 2013 only a small proportion of continuing portfolio revenues.
we expect continued good growth in Major Data Services, stable Leading Brands also delivered modest underlying revenue Leading Brands, and further benets from portfolio reshaping.
growth as solid performances in the UK agriculture and property sectors were offset by advertising declines elsewhere.
Other Business Magazines & Services saw moderating underlying revenue declines and continued portfolio reshaping.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m 891 119 110 718 695 89 663 89 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 27 Avolon, the Dublin-based global aircraft lessor, needs to understand key industry FLIGHTGLOBAL: trends and assess aircraft values in order tomake informed investment decisions.
COMBINING DATA To achieve this it relies on Reed Business Informations Flightglobal a business thathas transformed from a traditional AND ANALYTICS TO UK-based print publisher into a21st century global brand with online aviation news, market insights and dataservices.
DRIVE INCREASED The Ascend aircraft finance data business came into the Flightglobal fold in 2011, CUSTOMER VALUE creating the worlds most comprehensive database of commercial aircraft and their values, enabling customers like Avolon to save time and money, and increase productivity.
FLIGHTGLOBAL HAS TRANSFORMED ITSELF TO EMERGE AS A MAJOR FORCE IN AVIATION DATA, DELIVERING DOUBLE DIGIT REVENUE GROWTH IN ITS CORE ONLINE SUBSCRIPTION SERVICES.
WORKING WITH FLIGHTGLOBAL IS ALL ABOUT RELATIONSHIPS.
BEING ABLE TO TALK WITH THE TEAM, EXCHANGE KNOWLEDGE AND SHARE THOUGHT PROCESSES HELPS US UNDERSTAND OUR INDUSTRY BETTER, AND BUILDS ON OUR INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL.
Dick Forsberg Head of Strategy Avolon
