BUSINESS REVIEW 8 REED ELSEVIER Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier is a world leading provider of professional information solutions.
A company that delivers improved outcomes to professional customers across industries, helping them make betterdecisions, get better results and be more productive.
We achieve this by leveraging deep customer understanding to combine high quality content & data with analytics & technology inglobal platforms.
Our solutions often account for about 1 percent ofour customers total cost base but can have a significant, positive, impact on the remaining 99 percent.
We seek to build leading positions in long-term global growth markets by leveraging our institutional skills, assets and resources across ReedElsevier, both to build solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
Across Reed Elsevier, we are systematically migrating towards this type of business, primarily through organic development, by investing inthe transformation of our current assets and building out new products and solutions in adjacent markets and geographies.
We are supplementing organic growth with selective acquisitions where we are the natural owner and can accelerate our strategy with good returns.
We will continue to divest assets that we are not able to migrate in this direction, or where we do not see significant future value creation for Reed Elsevier.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC MARKET 6,116m 6,116m 19% 21% North America Electronic UK Face to face Netherlands Print Other Rest of Europe 64% 19% 52% Rest of World 15% 3% 7% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 9 Reed Elsevier operates across several professional market segments: In Scienti c, Technical & Medical markets, we provide information and tools to help customers improve scienti c andhealthcare outcomes.
In Risk Solutions & Business Information, we provide data, Risk Solutions analytics and insight that enable customers to evaluate and manage risks, and develop market intelligence, supporting C. L. U. E. more con dent decisions, improved economic outcomes, andenhanced operational ef ciency.
In Legal markets, we are a world leading provider of legal, regulatory and news & business information and analysis Legal & Professional tolegal, corporate, government and academic customers.
In Exhibitions, we are the worlds leading events business, withalmost 500 events in over 30 countries.
Adjusted operating pro t is presented as an additional performance measure used by management and is stated before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition related costs, disposal gains and losses and other non operating items, related tax effects, exceptional prior year tax credits in 2012 only and movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in the near term and include the bene t of tax amortisation where available on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
Adjusted operating pro t is also grossed up to exclude the equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted gures are provided in note 10 to the combined financial statements.
Underlying growth rates are calculated at constant currencies and exclude the results of all acquisitions and disposals made in both the year and prior year and assets held for sale.
Constant currency growth rates are based on 2011 full year average and hedge exchange rates.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 6,116m 1,713m 12% 14% scientific, Technical scientific, Technical & Medical & Medical 34% Risk Solutions 13% Risk Solutions Business Information Business Information 45% Legal Legal 26% Exhibitions 7% Exhibitions 15% 11% 23% BUSINESS REVIEW 10 REED ELSEVIER HELPING CUSTOMERS LEVERAGE BIG DATA: REED ELSEVIERS HPCC SYSTEMS The proliferation of mobile devices and rapid falls in the cost of storage mean the volume of data being captured around the world is doubling every two 30m years.
By one estimate, it could increase 50-fold between now and 2020. transactions Our customers need to lter these vast quantities of often incompatible structured and unstructured data per hour in order to make better decisions, get better results and be more productive.
HPCC SYSTEMS IS AN Whether they are governments looking to clamp down OPEN-SOURCE, BIG DATA on fraud, insurance companies looking to improve PROCESSING PLATFORM THAT CAN HANDLE 30M their services, legal professionals who need the TRANSACTIONS PER HOUR latest case notes at their ngertips, or clinicians requiring healthcare analytics, Reed Elseviers High Performance Computing Cluster HPCC technology helps them achieve these outcomes.
Uniquely, HPCC Systems combines trusted 2012 methodologies with Reed Elseviers proprietary linking algorithms in a single high quality repository, Cool Vendor enabling our customers to turn data into intelligence better, faster and cheaper.
GARTNER NAMED REED Source: IDC ELSEVIERS HPCC SYSTEMS A COOL VENDOR IN ITS APRIL 2012 REPORT OUR HPCC PLATFORM LINKS DISPARATE DATA SOURCES TOGETHER ON A LARGE SCALE AND AT HIGH SPEED, CREATING PRODUCT OPPORTUNITIES THAT OUR CUSTOMERS NEVER KNEW EXISTED.
Vijay Raghavan Chief Technology officer, LexisNexis Risk Solutions Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 11
