BUSINESS REVIEW 12 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL Scienti c, Technical & Medical disseminate and preserve research findings: to create innovative In Scienti c, Technical & Medical tools to help focus research strategies, increase research effectiveness, improve medical outcomes, and enhance the markets, we provide information ef ciency of healthcare and healthcare education.
In the primary research market during 2012, over 1m research and tools to help customers papers were submitted to Elsevier, a double digit increase on the prior year.
Over 10,000 editors managed the peer review and improve scienti c and healthcare selection of these papers, resulting in the publication of more than330,000 articles in almost 2,000 journals, many of which outcomes.
arethe foremost publications in their eld and a primary point of reference for new research.
This content was accessed by around Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scienti c, technical and 11m people, with nearly 700m full text article downloads last year.
medical information and serves scientists, health professionals, Content is provided free or at very low cost in most of the worlds and students worldwide.
Its objective is to help its customers poorest countries.
Elseviers journals are primarily published and advance science and improve healthcare by providing world class delivered through the ScienceDirect platform, the worlds largest information and innovative information solutions that enable database of scienti c and medical research, hosting over 11m themto make critical decisions, enhance productivity, and articles, and over 11,000 full text e-books.
include Cell and The Lancet families of titles.
Elsevier continuously Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 2,063m.
innovates to improve the utility and effectiveness of its journals.
Elsevier is a global business with principal operations in For example, its Article of the Future enhances the traditional Amsterdam, Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, London, Madrid, scienti c paper with new and broader types of content, such as Munich, New York, Oxford, Paris, Philadelphia, Rio fide Janeiro, links to experimental data, related content, and enhanced media St. Louis, San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
to supplement the articles text.
Elsevier serves the needs of the science, technology and health Elsevier is also a global leader in the scienti c, technical and markets by publishing primary research, reference, and medical reference market, providing authoritative and current education content, as well as by providing a range of database professional reference content.
While reference has traditionally andwork ow solutions.
Elseviers customers are scientists, been a print industry, Elsevier has been a leader in driving the academic institutions, research leaders and administrators, shiftfrom print to electronic.
Elsevier publishes over 20,000 medical researchers, doctors, nurses, allied health professionals reference titles, with 1,400 new titles published annually along and students, as well as hospitals, research institutions, health with supporting bibliographic data, indices and abstracts.
insurers, managed healthcare organisations, research-intensive Approximately 85% of these titles are available electronically.
All of these customers rely on Flagship titles include works such as Grays Anatomy, Nelsons Elsevier to provide high quality content and critical information Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of Human Anatomy.
formaking scienti c and medical decisions: to review, publish, One of the worlds leading medical journals SciVal provides research performance Premier life sciences journal with the since 1823 tools for academic institutions and funding highest impact factor in biochemistry intelligence and molecular biology ClinicalKey combines leading reference and PharmaPendium is an online drug safety Scopus is the worlds largest evidence-based medical content into its database that supports drug development scienti c abstract and citation fully-integrated clinical insight engine researchers database Geofacets is an extensive database of ScienceDirect is the worlds largest CPM CarePoints is a leading comprehensive georeferenced geological maps database of scienti c and medical care planning and clinical documentation research articles system Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 13 Elsevier launched ClinicalKey in 2012, a product that allows In December 2012, Elsevier acquired Knovel, a web-based physicians to access the leading reference and evidence-based provider of productivity tools for the engineering community, medicine content in a single, fully-integrated site.
ClinicalKey integrating technical information with analytics and search to includes a full taxonomy and improved smart content search to deliver trusted answers and drive innovation.
help clinicians look up detailed information on highly specic Elsevier serves academic and government research topics as they seek to answer clinical questions.
The platform administrators through its SciVal suite of products that help them covers Elseviers as well as relevant third-party health content.
evaluate their institutions research performance, determine ClinicalKey has already been deployed at leading teaching research strategies and increase institutional efficiencies.
hospitals, such as Oxford Universitys John Radcliffe, the Leveraging bibliometric data, such as citations from Scopus, Cleveland Clinic, and the US Department of Veterans Affairs.
SciValSpotlight helps institutions and governments to identify In medical education, Elsevier serves students of medicine, theirdistinctive research strengths, evaluate performance nursing and allied health professions through print and electronic andincrease the focus of their research and development books, as well as electronic solutions.
For example, its Evolve investments.
SciVal Funding assists researchers and institutions in portal provides a rich resource to support faculty and students identifying grants that are most relevant in their research areas.
and now has over 3.5m registered users: Evolve Reach provides In August 2012, Elsevier bolstered its research management online review and testing tools for nursing and the allied health portfolio by acquiring Atira, a provider of software and tools that professions: Evolve Teach provides online resources and solutions complement the SciVal platform and help academic institutions to support faculty.
and researchers improve their research outcomes.
Elseviers database and workow products provide a range of For healthcare professionals, Elsevier develops products to tools and solutions for professionals in the science, technical, deliver patient-specic solutions at the point of care to improve andmedical elds.
Customers include academic and corporate patient outcomes.
Its clinical solutions include Gold Standard, researchers, research administrators and healthcare which provides critical information on drug interactions to assist professionals.
effective treatment, and CPM Resource Center, which provides For academic and corporate researchers, significant products adata-driven framework to support nurses in undertaking include Scopus, Geofacets, and Reaxys.
Scopus is the largest procedures.
abstract and citation database of research literature in the Elsevier further bolstered its clinical solutions portfolio with the world, with abstracts and bibliographic information on almost acquisition in September 2012 of ExitCare, a provider of patient 50m scientific research articles from 19,500 peer reviewed education and discharge instructions.
ExitCares products, journals and 5,000 international publishers.
Geofacets is an oil and incorporated into Elseviers clinical decision support content gas exploration tool which packages research-relevant Elsevier andtools, will help healthcare providers improve the delivery and third-party geological content and tags that content to enable ofhealthcare information and services across all care rich search functionality.
Reaxys is a leading solution for synthetic environments.
chemists, integrating chemical reaction and compound data searching with synthesis planning.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC MARKET 2,063m 2,063m Rest of World Print Other 32% North America Electronic 68% Europe BUSINESS REVIEW 14 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL Market opportunities For students, priorities are to continue to provide the highest scientific, Technical and Medical information markets have good quality educational content and tools and to develop an even better long-term growth characteristics.
The importance of research customer experience.
In addition, Elsevier will develop tools to and development to economic performance and competitive track student performance, train new faculty members, and positioning is well understood by governments, academic improve the effectiveness of existing faculty staff.
This is reected in the long-term growth in research and development spend and in the number Business model, distribution channels and competition ofresearchers worldwide.
Growth in health markets is driven Science and medical research is principally disseminated on byageing populations in developed markets, rising prosperity apaid subscription basis to the research facilities of academic indeveloping markets and the increasing focus on improving institutions, government and corporations, and, in the case of medical outcomes and efficiency.
Given that a significant medical and healthcare journals, also to individual practitioners proportion of scientific research and healthcare is funded and medical society members.
For a number of journals, directlyor indirectly by governments, spending is influenced advertising and promotional income represents a small bygovernmental budgetary considerations.
The commitment proportion of revenues predominantly from pharmaceutical to research and health provision does, however, remain high, companies in healthcare titles.
even in more difficult budgetary environments.
Over the past 15 years alternative payment models for the dissemination of research such as so-called author-pays open Strategic priorities access or authors-funder-pays have emerged.
While it is Elseviers strategic goal is to lead the way in providing information expected that paid subscription will remain the primary solutions that advance science and improve health.
To achieve distribution model, Elsevier has long invested in alternate this, Elsevier creates solutions that reect deep insight into the business models to address the needs of customers and way its users work and the outcomes they are seeking to achieve: researchers.
Over 1,500 ofElseviers journals now offer the option drives for excellence in content, service and technology: of funding research publishing and distribution via a sponsored constantly adapts and revitalises its products, solutions and article fee.
In addition, Elsevier nowpublishes around 30 business models: and leverages its shared resources and author-pays journals.
knowledge to promote innovation, efficiency and excellence in execution.
Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and ClinicalKey, are generally sold direct to customers through a dedicated sales For academic and corporate researchers, priorities are to force that has ofces around the world.
Subscription agents continue to strengthen journal brands and the quality of published facilitate the sales and administrative process for print journals.
articles, and to further improve scientific communication and Books are sold through traditional and online book stores, user experience with our journal content.
Elsevier is focused on wholesalers and, particularly in medical and healthcare markets, delivering journal content quickly, making it available through directly to end users.
different access channels, and exploring a range of innovative new business models.
Elsevier will also build new services, and add Competition within science and medical publishing is generally on greater functionality and utility to existing solutions to improve a title-by-title and product-by-product basis.
books and databases are typically published by learned societies and other professional publishers.
Workow tools face similar For science and health professionals, priorities are to continue competition as well as from software companies and internal enhancing the quality and relevance of our content and our solutions developed by customers.
workow tools, while actively managing the ongoing format shift from print to electronic information.
RELATIVE IMPACT FACTOR GROWTH IN ARTICLE SUBMISSIONS 1.08 1.06 1.02 11% 1.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 Improvement in relative journal quality of Elseviers portfolio through Increased number of articles submitted to Elsevier journals with the total attracting the highest quality research.
exceeding 1m for the first time in 2012.
Relative impact factor is the average citation impact of Elseviers journal content compared to other publishers industry average 1.
Relative impact factors based on journal-level impact factors released by Thomson Reuters in the given year.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 15 2012 2011 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 2,063 2,058 0% 1% 2% Adjusted operating profit 780 768 2% 1% 4% Good growth in databases & tools revenue was driven by strong 2012 financial performance new sales and usage growth.
Elsevier achieved good revenue growth in primary research Sales of print books to individuals continued to decline in 2012 anddatabases & tools across scientific & medical segments, reecting format migration and subdued reference and education with particular strength in emerging markets.
Print pharma promotion revenues also continued to submissions and usage grew double digits.
Electronic revenues, decline reecting industry trends.
which now account for approximately 70% of total revenues, grew strongly across all segments.
Print book and pharma In August 2012 the management structure of Elsevier was promotion revenues continued to decline.
reorganised, combining science & technology and health sciences.
Had these revenue streams still been managed Underlying revenues grew 2% and underlying adjusted operating separately, their pro forma underlying revenue growth would profits grew 4%.
Good underlying revenue growth in primary research solutions In 2012 adjusted operating profit margin continued to improve, across the scientific and medical segments was driven by double driven by continued process efficiencies and currency hedging digit growth in both submissions and article downloads, with benets.
particularly strong growth in faster growing economies outside Europe and the US.
The number of article submissions to our 2013 Outlook journals exceeded 1m for the first time in 2012, with over 11m The customer environment is broadly unchanged on last year, users downloading nearly 700m articles during the year.
withvariations by geography and customer segment.
We expect Elseviers overall relative impact factor and citation share volume growth in research and strong demand for electronic continued to grow in the year as we focused on providing our products and solutions to continue across scientific and medical customers with high quality content embedded in sophisticated markets, with continued declines in print book and pharma online tools.
Overall we expect another year of modest underlying revenue growth in 2013.
In addition to good growth in traditional subscriber-pays article volumes, author-pays, or authors-funder-pays article volumes increased during the year, albeit from a small base.
A sponsored article option is currently available in 1,500 of our journals and 30stand-alone journals operate under this payment model.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m 2,058 2,063 780 2,026 768 1,985 724 693 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 16 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 17 SCOPUS: REDUCING THE TIME IT TAKES TO GET NEW PRODUCTS TO CUSTOMERS Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers About Scopus Scopus is the largest abstract and of Food, Home and Personal Care products citation database of peer-reviewed withsales in over 190 countries.
Its products research literature from more than arepresent in seven out of 10 homes globally 5,000 international publishers.
The and are used by more than 2bn people on a collection of research literature grows dailybasis.
every month and currently includes more than 20,500 different sources, Unilever undertakes an immense range of including 19,500 peer-reviewed product improvements and new product journals, 400 trade publications, and development every year.
In order to shorten the 360 book series.
Featuring smart tools time it takes to get new products to customers, to track, analyse and visualise research, the R&D team needed a tool to speed up their Scopus is widely used across the research decision making process.
After research community, with customers in extensive evaluation against its existing academia, government, and industry.
researchdiscovery tool which had been in place for 12 years, Unilever implemented Elseviers Scopus in 2012.
Scopus now enables Unilevers R&D and 20,500 Innovation teams to search 49m scientific records to make faster, more informed decisions and achieve better results.
Unilever relies on sources Scopus to determine quickly if a specic experiment or chemical reaction has been THE COLLECTION OF RESEARCH carried out before and if it is worth pursuing.
LITERATURE IN SCOPUS GROWS EVERY MONTH AND CURRENTLY When deciding on using Scopus, David INCLUDES MORE THAN 20,500 Younghusband, Information Systems Specialist DIFFERENT SOURCES.
for Unilever, based in Bedford, UK, asked for feedback from the researchers as part of the structured evaluation process.
The unanimous feedback was that they could not now work without Scopus.
SCOPUS HELPS US DO MORE E-SCIENCESCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION THAT CAN BE UNDERTAKEN MORE EFFECTIVELY, LESS EXPENSIVELY AND WITHOUT HAVING TO PERFORM WORK IN THE LAB THAT HAS ALREADY BEEN DONE BY OTHERS OR THAT ISNT LIKELY TO PRODUCE RELEVANT OUTCOMES.
David Younghusband Information Systems Specialist, Unilever R&D
