GOVERNANCE 66 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Structure and corporate governance Corporate structure exchange rate, averaged over a period of five consecutive business days commencing on the tenth business day before the announcement of the proposed dividend.
REED ELSEVIER PLC REED ELSEVIER NV Corporate governance REED ELSEVIER GROUP PLC Compliance with codes of best practice Publishing and Information Businesses The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure ELSEVIER REED FINANCE BV policies applicable to companies listed on the stock exchanges Financing Activities ofthe United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United States.
The effect of this is that a standard applying to one will, where not in conict, also be observed by the other.
Reed Elsevier was created in January 1993, when Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their respective The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV which businesses to two jointly owned companies, Reed Elsevier Group comprises an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board, together plc, a UK-registered company which owns the publishing and the Combined Board support the principles and provisions of information businesses, and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, a Dutchcorporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance registered company which owns the nancing activities.
Reed Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their separate the UK Code and those contained in the Dutch Corporate legal and national identities and are publicly-held companies.
Governance Code issued in December 2008 the Dutch Code.
Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London and New York, TheFRC published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code in and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and September 2012 2012 Code which applies to accounting periods, New York.
Following the merger of their respective businesses, beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board expects to comply Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV entered into a Governing in full with the 2012 Code during 2013.
Agreement to regulate their relationship, including the economic This report and the compliance statement set out below are made interests of the parties and the composition of their Boards and in relation to the UK Code.
The principles and provisions set out those of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
inthe UK Code and the Dutch Code have applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
Reed Elsevier PLC, Equalisation arrangements whichhas its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, has Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% interest complied throughout the year with the UK Code.
Reed Elsevier NV, in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds a 39% which has its primary listing on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Elsevier NV Stock Exchange, has also complied throughout the year with the holding a 61% interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC additionally holds a UK Code, and subject to limited exceptions, as explained in the 5.8% indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV, reecting the Reed Elsevier NV Report of the Supervisory Board and the arrangements entered into between the two companies at the Executive Board on pages 172 to 175, has applied the best practice time of the merger, which determined the equalisation ratio provisions of the Dutch Code.
The ways in which Reed Elsevier PLC whereby one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share is, in broad terms, and Reed Elsevier NV have applied the main principles of the UK intended to confer equivalent economic interests to 1.538 Reed Code are described below.
For further information on the Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
The equalisation ratio is subject to application of the Dutch Code by Reed Elsevier NV, see the change to reect share splits and similar events that affect the Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV published number of outstanding ordinary shares of either Reed Elsevier on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC Business model shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier As required by Provision C. 1.2 of the UK Code, pages 4 to 37 combined businesses, and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other describe the business and the progress made in 2012 against than Reed Elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic interest in the ReedElseviers long-term business priorities, aimed at delivering Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
Holders of ordinary shares better outcomes for our customers and creating value for in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV enjoy substantially ReedElsevier and shareholders.
equivalent dividend and capital rights with respect to their ordinary shares.
Relations with shareholders Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in regular The Boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Presentations on the haveagreed, other than in special circumstances, to recommend Reed Elsevier combined businesses are made by the Chairman, equivalent gross dividends including, with respect to the dividend Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer following the on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax announcement of the interim and full-year results and these are credit based on the equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC simultaneously webcast.
A conference call with investors was ordinary share pays dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax also held following the third quarter Interim Management law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
In addition, two investor seminars focusing on Reed ordinary share pays dividends in euros and is subject to Dutch tax Exhibitions, Reed Business Information and LexisNexis Legal & law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
The exchange rate Professional were held during the year.
These seminars which used for each dividend calculation is the spot euro sterling Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 67 described the market background, business activities and growth committees, including the balance of skills, experience, plans for the businesses were also webcast on the Reed Elsevier independence, knowledge of Reed Elsevier, and diversity, including website.
The Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer gender.
The Chairman conducted interviews with each member of and the investor relations team meet institutional shareholders the Boards to discuss individually board effectiveness.
The results ona regular basis and the Chairman also makes himself available were subsequently considered in a meeting of the Boards.
The to major institutions as appropriate.
A trading update is provided Chairman of the Boards was not present during a discussion by ahead of the Annual General Meetings of the two companies and theNon-Executive Directors as it related to him.
Based on these towards the end of the financial year through Interim Management assessments, and the board effectiveness review, the Committee Statements.
The interim and annual results announcements believes that the performance of each Director continues to andpresentations, together with the Interim Management beeffective and that they demonstrate commitment to their Statements, investor seminar presentations, other important respective roles.
The Committee also believes that the Boards announcements and corporate governance documents function effectively and collaboratively and with an appropriate concerning Reed Elsevier, are published on the Reed Elsevier level of engagement with management and that the diverse website, www.
In accordance with the membership provides a broad range of skills and perspectives.
provisions of the Dutch Code, Reed Elsevier NV has adopted a Inseeking to further its effectiveness, the Boards will work to bilateral shareholder contact policy, which is also published on ensure an appropriate level of review of risk-related matters the Reed Elsevier website.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and alongside strategic, financial and operational issues in line Reed Elsevier NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes with the recommendations of the review.
and views of the companies institutional shareholders and the results are presented to the respective Boards.
The Boards Both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV offer electronic The Board of Reed Elsevier PLC, the Combined Board of Reed voting facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
Elsevier NV and the Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc are The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the harmonised.
All of the Directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are Boards to communicate with individual shareholders.
The also Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and are members of either the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, Executive Board or the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
the chairmen of the Board Committees, other Directors and a Reed Elsevier NV may nominate for appointment to the representative of the external auditors are available to answer Supervisory Board up to two Directors who are not appointed to questions from shareholders.
theBoards of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Currently, one such Director, Marike van Lier Lels, has been Board induction and information appointed to the Supervisory Board.
The names, nationalities and Following appointment and as required, Directors receive biographical details of each Director at the date of this report trainingappropriate to their level of experience and knowledge.
This includes the provision of a tailored induction programme so as to provide newly appointed Directors with information about In view of recent legislation to formalise the one-tier board model the Reed Elsevier businesses and other relevant information to in the Netherlands Civil Code that was enacted with effect from assist them in performing their duties.
Non-Executive Directors 1January 2013, the Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV has are encouraged to visit the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet resolved to take the necessary steps to establish a one-tier board management and senior staff.
For this purpose, the articles of association of Reed Elsevier NV will require to be amended and therefore a All Directors have full and timely access to the information proposal for the one-tier governance structure will be put to the required to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
Annual General Meeting of Reed Elsevier NV in April 2013.
They have access to the services of the respective company secretaries, other members of Reed Elseviers management There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Boards and and staff, and external advisors.
Directors may take independent approved delegated authorities to the Chief Executive officer and professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the other senior executives.
There is a clear separation of the roles relevant companys expense.
ofthe Chairman and the Chief Executive officer which are set out inwriting.
In addition to scheduled board and board committee meetings held during the year, the Directors attend other meetings and The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier sitevisits.
Where a Director is unable to attend a board or board Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance committee meeting he or she is provided with all relevant papers of executive and non-executive directors who bring a wide range and information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss ofskills and experience to the deliberations of the Boards.
The issues arising with the respective chairman and other board and Boards review the independence of the Non-Executive Directors committee members.
every year, based on the criteria for independence set out in the UKCode.
The UK Code does not consider the Chairman to be Board evaluation independent due to the unique role the Chairman has in corporate During the year, the Corporate Governance Committee, supported governance.
Notwithstanding this, the Chairman, Anthony Habgood, by the company secretaries, assessed the performance of met the independence criteria contained in the UK Code when individual Directors, and led by the Senior Independent Director, hewas appointed Chairman in 2009.
The Boards consider all also assessed the performance of the Chairman.
Using Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman to be questionnaires completed by all of the Directors, the Committee independent of management and free from any business or other reviewed the functioning and constitution of the Boards and their GOVERNANCE 68 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE relationship which could materially interfere with their ability The Nominations Committee also engaged external search toexercise independent judgement.
consultancies to assist in the search for suitable Non-Executive Directors.
Following the search process, David Brennan and Notwithstanding that Mark Elliott and Sir David Reid have Linda Sanford were identied as having the appropriate skills servedon the Boards for more than nine years, the Boards andexperience required by the Boards, and the Nominations havedetermined that they remain independent in character Committee recommended their appointment.
As previously andjudgement and neither has formed associations with announced, David Brennans appointment was to have been ReedElsevier that might compromise their ability to exercise effective as ofNovember 2012: however, this has been postponed independent judgement.
indefinitely for personal reasons at his request and by agreement The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV have with the Boards.
In December 2012, Linda Sanford was appointed appointed Sir David Reid to act as Senior Independent Director, to theBoards, the audit committees and corporate governance who is available to meet with institutional shareholders and assist committee.
Ms Sanfords biography is set out on page 63. in resolving concerns in cases where alternative channels are Following the postponement of David Brennans appointment, deemed inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director also theNominations Committee continued the search and leads the annual assessment of the performance of the Chairman recommended to the Boards, in February 2013, that Dr Wolfhart of Reed Elsevier PLC Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Reed Hauser be proposed for election as a member of the Supervisory Elsevier NV.
A prole, which identies the skills and experience Board of Reed Elsevier NV and a Non-Executive Director of Reed ofthe Non-Executive Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and the Elsevier PLC at the respective Annual General Meetings in April members of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV, is set 2013.
Dr Hauser has been the chief executive officer of Intertek outon page 65 and is available on the Reed Elsevier website, Group plc since 2005, after serving as a non-executive director www.
He was also a non-executive director of Logica plc Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders maintain from 2007 to 2012.
Dr Hauser is a German citizen with a strong their rights to appoint individuals to the respective Boards in background in medicine, science and technology based accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of businesses.
Subject to his election at the Annual General these companies.
Subject to this, no individual may be appointed Meetings, he will also be appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV either of the of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Executive Board or the Supervisory Board or Reed Elsevier Group Mark Elliott and Sir David Reid will retire from the Boards of plc unless recommended by the joint Nominations Committee.
ReedElsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC following the conclusion Members of the Committee abstain when their own reof the Annual General Meetings in April 2013 after ten years appointment is being considered.
service and will not seek re-election.
As a general rule, letters of appointment in respect of In accordance with the Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier Non-Executive Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and members of PLC, Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV provide that individuals Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the will serve for an initial term of three years, and are typically Board.
All other Directors are subject to re-election annually in expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Boards may accordance with the UK Code.
Accordingly, Duncan Palmer and invite an individual to serve for an additional period of three years.
Linda Sanford will stand for election at the Reed Elsevier PLC The respective Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier PLC and Annual General Meeting in April 2013.
All other eligible Directors Reed Elsevier NV provide that all Directors should be subject to will stand for re-election.
retirement at least every three years and are then able to make All eligible Directors of the Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV themselves available for re-election by shareholders at including Duncan Palmer and Linda Sanford, whose subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Notwithstanding the appointments were approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary provisions of the Articles of Association, the Boards comply with General Meeting in November 2012 will stand forre-election at the recommendations contained in the UK Code, and all Directors the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting inApril 2013. seek re-election by shareholders annually.
Based on assessments made by the Corporate Governance Board changes Committee of the qualications, performance and effectiveness Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards of ofeach individual Director seeking re-election, the Boards have ReedElsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc accepted a recommendation from the Nominations Committee are set out in the table on page 69. that each of these Directors be proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the respective company.
Mark Armour stepped down as Chief Financial officer in November 2012 and retired from the Reed Elsevier Boards in December 2012.
The Nominations Committee retained an external search consultancy to conduct a rigorous search process in conjunction with the Boards to identify a suitable candidate tosucceed MrArmour.
Following the conclusion of the search process and on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Boards selected Duncan Palmer who joined Reed Elsevier in August 2012 and was appointed Chief Financial officer in November 2012.
MrPalmers biography is set out on page 62.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 69 BOARD ATTENDANCE Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc Number of Number of Number of Date of appointment meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of cessation held whilst meetings held whilst meetings held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended a director attended a director attended Mark Armour December 2012 767676 Mark Elliott 767676 Erik Engstrom 777777 Anthony Habgood 777777 Adrian Hennah 767676 Lisa Hook 777777 Marike van Lier Lels n a n a 7 7 n a n a Duncan Palmer 332233 Robert Polet 777777 Sir David Reid 747474 Linda Sanford December 2012 111111 Ben van der Veer 777777 Duncan Palmer was appointed to the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group plc on 25 September 2012 and to the Executive Board of Reed Elsevier NV on 6November 2012.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier board structure comprising a supervisory board and a management board.
The supervisory board consists of Rudolf van den Brink Chairman, Duncan Palmer, Ben van der Veer and Marike van Lier Lels, with the management board consisting of Alberto Romaneschi, Gerben fide Jong and Jans van der Woude.
Jacques Billy retired from the management board inMay 2012 and Mark Armour retired from the supervisory board in November 2012.
Alberto Romaneschi was appointed to the management board with effect from October 2012 and Duncan Palmer was appointed to the supervisory board in November 2012.
Appointments to the supervisory board and the management board are made by Elsevier Reed Finance BVs shareholders, in accordance with the companys articles of association.
Date of Number of appointment meetings Number of cessation held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended Mark Armour November 2012 3 3 Jacques Billy May 2012 1 0 Rudolf van den Brink 44 Gerben fide Jong 44 Marike van Lier Lels 44 Duncan Palmer November 2012 1 1 Alberto Romaneschi October 2012 2 2 43 Ben van der Veer Jans van der Woude 44 Board committees In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, the following committees have been established by the respective Boards.
All of the committees have written terms of reference, which are published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Membership of each committee and attendance during the year are set out below.
Audit Committees The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc have established Audit Committees.
The Committees comprise only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees are chaired by Ben van der Veer.
Areport of the Audit Committees, setting out their role and main activities during the year, appears on pages 91 and 92.
Number of Date of meetings appointment held whilst a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Ben van der Veer Committee Chairman 55 Lisa Hook May 2012 2 2 Sir David Reid 55 Linda Sanford December 2012 Adrian Hennah 54 Linda Sanford was appointed to the Committees after the meetings held in December 2012.
GOVERNANCE 70 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The functions of an audit committee in respect of the nancing activities are carried out by the supervisory board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Remuneration Committee The Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc has established a Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for considering the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Mark Elliott.
A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 74 to 90.
This report also serves as disclosure of the Directors remuneration policy, and the remuneration of the Directors and their interests in the shares of the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Number of Date of meetings appointment held whilst a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Mark Elliott Committee Chairman 55 Anthony Habgood 55 Lisa Hook May 2012 3 3 Robert Polet 55 Sir David Reid 55 Nominations Committee The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a joint Nominations Committee.
The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired by Anthony Habgood.
A report of the Nominations Committee, setting out its role and main activities during the year, appears on page 73.
Number of meetings held whilst a Number of Committee meetings Members member attended Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman 55 Mark Elliott 55 Lisa Hook 55 Sir David Reid 54 Ben van der Veer 55 Corporate Governance Committee The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a joint Corporate Governance Committee, which is responsible for reviewing ongoing developments and best practice in corporate governance.
The Committee is also responsible for assessing theperformance of the Directors and recommending the structure and operation of the various committees of the Boards and the qualications and criteria for membership of each committee, including the independence of members of the Boards.
Number of Date of meetings appointment held whilst a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman 77 Mark Elliott 76 Adrian Hennah 76 Lisa Hook 77 Marike van Lier Lels 76 Robert Polet 77 Sir David Reid 74 Linda Sanford December 2012 1 1 Ben van der Veer 77 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 71 Each division has identied and evaluated its major risks, the Internal control controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of residual Parent companies risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures are The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV exercise embedded into the operations of the business and include the independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems of monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed management and board attention.
The principal risks facing Finance BV.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier ReedElsevier are set out on pages 58 to 60.
NV have each adopted a schedule of matters which are required to The major risks facing the Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses be brought to them for decision.
In relation to Reed Elsevier Group areconsidered by the Board.
Reed Elseviers Chief Risk officer is plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC responsible for providing regular reports to the Board and Audit and Reed Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual Committee.
Working closely with business management and with budgets, and receive regular reports on the operations, the central functions, the role of the Chief Risk officer is to ensure includingthe treasury and risk management activities of the that Reed Elsevier is managing its business risks effectively and twocompanies.
Major transactions proposed by the Boards of ina coordinated manner across the business with clarity on the ReedElsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV require respective responsibilities and interdependencies.
Litigation and theapproval of the Boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and other legal regulatory matters are managed by legal directors in ReedElsevier NV.
Europe and the United States.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives regular meet on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control reports on the identication and management of material risks and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier and reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives Reed Finance BV.
regular reports from both internal and external auditors on internal control and risk management matters.
In addition, each Operating companies division is required, at the end of the financial year, to review the The Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the system effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing and information report its findings on a detailed basis to the management of businesses, while the Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are Reed Elsevier Group plc.
These reports are summarised and, as responsible for the system of internal control in respect of the part ofthe annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit finance group activities.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The Chairman of the Audit and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are also responsible for reviewing Committee reports to the Board on any significant internal control the effectiveness of their systems of internal control.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV have each implemented an ongoing process for identifying, Elsevier Reed Finance BV evaluating, monitoring and managing the more significant risks Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, faced by their respective businesses.
These processes have been which are applied to all Elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 and up to The respective Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have adopted the date of the approvals of the Annual Reports and Financial schedules of matters that are required to be brought to them for Statements 2012. decision.
Procedures are in place for monitoring the activities of the finance group, including a comprehensive treasury reporting Reed Elsevier Group plc system.
The major risks affecting the finance group have been Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established framework of identied and evaluated and are subject to regular review.
The procedures and internal controls, with which the management controls in place to manage these risks and the level of residual ofeach business is required to comply.
Group businesses are risk accepted are monitored by the Boards.
required to maintain systems of internal control which are appropriate to the nature and scale of their activities and address Annual review all significant operational and financial risks that they face.
As part of the year-end procedures, the Audit Committees and The Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc has adopted a schedule Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier ofmatters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV review the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management during the Reed Elsevier Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business andrequires ofcers and employees to behave in an open, objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not honest, ethical and principled manner.
The Code also outlines absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The condential procedures enabling employees to report any Boards have confirmed, subject to the above, that as regards concerns about compliance, or about Reed Elseviers financial financial reporting risks, the respective risk management and reporting practice.
The Code is published on the Reed Elsevier control systems provide reasonable assurance against material website, www.
inaccuracies or loss and have functioned properly during the year.
GOVERNANCE 72 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsibilities in respect of the US certicates financial statements As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 andby related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange The Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Commission, the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required to officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV certify in prepare financial statements as at the end of each financial period, therespective Annual Reports 2012 on Form 20-F to be led in accordance with applicable law and regulations, which give a withthe Commission that they are responsible for establishing true and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the profit or loss, of andmaintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that the respective companies and their subsidiaries, joint ventures theyhave: and associates.
They are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding assets, and for taking designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other that material information relating to Reed Elsevier is made irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for selecting known to them: suitable accounting policies and applying them on a consistent evaluated the effectiveness of Reed Elseviers disclosure basis, making judgements and estimates that are prudent and controls and procedures: reasonable.
based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the ReedElsevier combined financial statements, which are the design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and responsibility of the Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management Elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies which comply or other employees who have a significant role in Reed with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Elseviers internal controls: and presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2012 on Form Going concern 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
The Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, having A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other senior Reed exist for the combined businesses to continue in operational Elsevier managers, provides assurance to the Chief Executive existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, officer and Chief Financial officer regarding their Section 302 it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing certications.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have had Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief due regard to the combined businesses financial position as at Executive officer and Chief Financial officer of Reed Elsevier PLC 31 December 2012, the strong free cash ow of the combined and of Reed Elsevier NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports businesses, Reed Elseviers ability to access capital markets 2012 on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining andthe principal risks facing Reed Elsevier.
adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
A commentary on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures cash ows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualied, are 31 December 2012 is set out in the Chief Financial Ofcers Report presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2012 on Form 20-F. on pages 50 to 57.
This shows that after taking account of available cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings, none of Reed Elseviers borrowings fall due within the next two years.
Reed Elseviers policies on liquidity, capital management and management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Further information on liquidity of the combined businesses can be found in note 18 of the combined financial statements.
The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier are set out onpages 58 to 60.
