BUSINESS REVIEW 34 EXHIBITIONS Exhibitions Market opportunities In Exhibitions we are the worlds Growth in the exhibitions market is in uenced by both business-tobusiness marketing spend and business investment.
Historically, leading events business, with these have been driven by levels of corporate pro tability, which inits turn has followed overall growth in GDP.
Emerging markets almost 500 events in over 30 and growth industries provide additional opportunities.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in any one year is countries.
affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
Reed Exhibitions portfolio of exhibitions and conferences serves Strategic priorities 44 industry sectors across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to provide market-leading Africa and Asia Paci c. In 2012, Reed Exhibitions brought together events in growth sectors, especially in higher growth geographies, over 6m event participants from around the world, generating enabling exhibitors to target and reach new customers quickly billions of dollars in business for its customers, and boosting the andcost-effectively and providing a platform for industry local economies where the events are hosted.
participants to do business, to network and to learn.
To achieve this, Reed Exhibitions is focused on driving organic growth by Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 854m.
leveraging its global sector expertise, by developing new events ReedExhibitions is a global business headquartered in London and by building out its technology platforms.
It is also shaping the and has principal of ces in Paris, Vienna, Norwalk Connecticut, portfolio through a combination of strategic partnerships and So Paulo, Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Tokyo, and Sydney.
Reed Exhibitions selective acquisitions in high growth sectors and geographies has 3,200 employees worldwide.
aswell as withdrawal from markets and industries with lower Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events which are growth prospects.
relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the Reed Exhibitions is committed to continually improving customer world meet face to face to do business, to network and to learn.
solutions and experience by implementing best practice initiatives Itsexhibitions and conferences encompass a wide range of across geographies and sectors.
Its integrated web event platform sectors.
They include construction, electronics, energy and is used by more than 70 per cent of events and is driving both alternative energy, engineering, entertainment, gifts and customer satisfaction and insight.
Using customer insights, jewellery, healthcare, hospitality, interior design, logistics, ReedExhibitions has developed an innovative product offering manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, real estate, recreation, which enhances the value proposition for exhibitors by broadening securityand safety, transport and travel.
their options in terms of the type and location of stand they take andthe timing of their commitment to the event.
The worlds entertainment content market The international building exhibition International security conference TM Premier global event for the travel industry The East Coasts biggest and most International trade fair for autoparts, excitingpopular culture convention equipment and services The worlds property market A world leading corrugated Bringing aluminium to life manufacturingshow Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 35 In 2012 Reed Exhibitions launched 30 new events.
These included Business model, distribution channels and competition events which extended the geographical footprint of the luxury The substantial majority of Reed Exhibitions revenues are from travel brand, ILTM, to Mexico and the high end Priv jewellery sales of exhibition space.
The balance includes conference fees, brand to Panama.
Reed Exhibitions Japan responded to customer online and ofine advertising, sponsorship fees and, for some demand by introducing several new events, some of which were shows, admission charges.
Exhibition space is sold directly or inthe fast moving sectors of cosmetics and high-technology through local agents where applicable.
In China, the Nepcon brand was used to launch an works in collaboration with trade associations, which use the electronics manufacturing event in the western city of Chengdu.
events to promote access for members to domestic and export Akey element of building business in China and Brazil is a regional markets, and with governments, for whom events can provide strategy, taking more events to Chinas second tier cities and important support to stimulate foreign investment and promote cloning events from So Paulo to Recife in Brazils fast developing regional and national enterprise.
Reed Exhibitions now organises over 150 events in Reed Exhibitions is the global market leader in a fragmented emerging markets.
industry, holding less than a 10 percent global market share.
A number of targeted acquisitions were completed during 2012.
Other international exhibition organisers include UBM, Informa InBrazil, Reed Exhibitions took full ownership of its joint IIR and some of the larger German Messe, including Messe venture, Reed Exhibitions Alcantara Machado, and expanded Frankfurt, Messe Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
Competition intohospitality Equipotel and logistics Movimat, cementing also comes from industry trade associations and convention Reed Exhibitions position as the leading exhibition organizer centre and exhibition hall owners.
Elsewhere, acquisitions were made to extend ReedExhibitions reach in China and its global position in the alternative energy sector.
During the year, Reed Exhibitions alsoestablished positions in new markets with attractive growth prospects, including Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, where ajoint venture has been created with Tyap, the countrys .
GEOGRAPHY OF 2012 LAUNCH REVENUES EVENTS IN EMERGING MARKETS North America 5% 165 139 Europe 25% Rest of World 70% 2011 2012 Increase in events taking place in high growth geographies through On an event location basis launches and acquisitions.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC MARKET 854m 854m Other 3% North America Rest of World Face to face 97% Europe On an event location basis.
BUSINESS REVIEW 36 EXHIBITIONS 2012 2011 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 854 707 21% 25% 15% Adjusted operating profit 210 167 26% 30% 20% 2012 adjusted operating profit margins improved by 1.0 2012 financial performance percentage points, reecting both process efficiencies and Exhibitions performed strongly in 2012, driven by strong growth thepositive impact of biennial event cycling.
in the US and Japan, moderate growth in Europe, and double During the year we continued to roll out global platforms and digit growth in most emerging markets.
We continued to invest processes across geographies and sectors.
Our integrated web throughout the year, launching 30 new shows in total, and we event platform is now used by more than 70% of events, driving strengthened our position in high growth markets through customer satisfaction and providing customer insight.
Innovative partnerships and targeted acquisitions.
products and services are enhancing the value proposition for Underlying revenues grew 15% 7% excluding biennial event exhibitors by broadening their range of options.
cycling, and underlying adjusted operating profits grew 20%.
2013 Outlook In the US and Japan underlying revenues grew strongly, and In 2013 we expect good growth in the US and Japan, limited growth growth in emerging markets was well into double digits.
In Europe in Europe, and strong growth in other markets.
However 2013 will good growth from a number of core events helped to offset some be a biennial cycling out year, reducing underlying revenue growth softness in southern European markets, resulting in moderate by 5-6 percentage points.
underlying revenue growth overall in the region.
During 2012 we launched 30 new events, primarily in high growth sectors and geographies, and completed a number of targeted acquisitions.
In Brazil we took full ownership of our joint venture, Alcantara Machado, and expanded into hospitality and logistics, and in Turkey we created a new joint venture with Tyap, the countrys leading event organiser.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m 854 210 707 693 167 638 158 152 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 37 37 Exhibitors are increasingly looking to develop their presence in new and AUTOMOVEL BRAZIL: emerging markets where they can extend their market share.
Reed Exhibitions strategy of prioritising faster growth PRIORITISING geographies and sectors through new launches and selective acquisitions is areection of its customers needs.
FASTER GROWTH In under 10 years, Reed Exhibitions has become Brazils leading event organiser GEOGRAPHIES building a business from less than $5m in2005 to more than $100m in 2012.
AND SECTORS Automovel is already Latin Americas largest auto show, and one of the largest auto shows in the world.
Exhibitors are increasingly using the event for global product launches, and are benefiting from the high levels of social media engagement with customers before, during and after the show.
ITS NOT JUST ANOTHER LOCAL EVENT.
ITS AN EVENT THAT GRABS THE ATTENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL AUTOINDUSTRY.
Frederico J. Themoteo Jr. Director of Marketing and Communications General Motors 410,000 visitors LATIN AMERICAS LARGEST AUTO SHOW 38
