GOVERNANCE 62 BOARD DIRECTORS Board Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Erik Engstrom 49 Anthony Habgood 66 R N C Mark Elliott 63 R N C Chief Executive officer Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief Executive officer since 2009.
Appointed: 2009 Appointed: 2003 Joined Reed Elsevier as Chief Executive officer Nationality: British Nationality: American of Elsevier in 2004.
Other appointments: Chairman of Whitbread plc Other appointments: Chairman of QinetiQ Group Nationality: Swedish and of Preqin Holding Limited.
plc and a non-executive director of G4S plc.
Past appointments: Prior to joining Reed Past appointments: Chairman of Bunzl plc and Past appointments: Until his retirement in 2008, Elsevier was a partner at General Atlantic of Mlnlycke Health Care Limited and served as was general manager of IBM Global Solutions, Partners.
Before that was President and Chief Chief Executive of Bunzl plc, Chief Executive of having held a number of positions with IBM, Operating officer of Random House Inc and, Tootal Group plc and a director of The Boston including managing director of IBM Europe, before its merger with Random House, Consulting Group Inc.
Formerly non-executive Middle East and Africa.
President and Chief Executive officer of Bantam director of Geest plc, Marks and Spencer plc, Doubleday Dell, North America.
Began his National Westminster Bank plc, Powergen plc, career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served and SVG Capital plc.
asa non-executive director of Eniro AB and Education: Holds an MA in Economics from Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Cambridge University and an MS in Industrial Education: Holds a BSc from Stockholm School Administration from Carnegie Mellon University.
of Economics, an MSc from the Royal Institute He is a visiting Fellow at Oxford University.
ofTechnology in Stockholm, and gained an MBAfrom Harvard Business School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Duncan Palmer 47 Robert Polet 57 R Sir David Reid 66 A R C N C Chief Financial officer Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2007 Appointed: 2003 Nationality: British and American Nationality: Dutch Nationality: British Other appointments: Non-executive director Other appointments: Chairman of Salo Group Other appointments: Chairman of Intertek Group ofOshkosh Corporation.
S. p. A. and a non-executive director of Philip plc and a member of the Senior Advisory Board Past appointments: Prior to joining Reed Morris International Inc, William Grant & Sons of Jeffries, the global investment banking rm.
Elsevier was Chief Financial officer and Senior Limited and Crown Topco Limited, parent Past appointments: Chairman of Tesco PLC Vice President of Owens Corning Inc. from 2007 company of Vertu.
Member of the supervisory from 2004 to 2011, having previously been having previously held various senior finance board of Nyenrode Foundation.
Executive Deputy Chairman until December positions within Royal Dutch Shell for 20 years Past appointments: President and Chief 2003, and Finance Director from 1985 to 1997. inthe UK, the Netherlands and the US.
Executive officer of Gucci Group from 2004 Formerly Chairman of Kwik-Fit and a Education: Holds an MA in Mathematics from to2011, having previously spent 26 years at non-executive director of fide Vere PLC, Legal & Cambridge University and an MBA from Unilever working in a variety of marketing and General Group plc and Westbury PLC.
Stanford University, and is a UK-qualied senior executive positions throughout the world, Chartered Management Accountant.
including president of Unilevers Worldwide Ice Cream and Frozen Foods division.
Formerly a non-executive director of Wilderness Holdings Limited from 2010 to 2012.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 63 Adrian Hennah 55 A C Lisa Hook 54 R Marike van Lier Lels 53 C N C Non-Executive Director Member of the Supervisory Board Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier NV Appointed: April 2011 Appointed: 2006 Nationality: British Nationality: American Appointed: 2010 Other appointments: Chief Financial officer Nationality: Dutch Other appointments: President and Chief ofReckitt Benckiser Group plc Executive officer of Neustar Inc and a director Other appointments: Member of the supervisory Past appointments: Chief Financial officer boards of KPN NV, USG People NV and TKH ofThe Ocean Foundation.
ofSmith & Nephew plc from 2006 to 2012.
Past appointments: President and Chief Group NV.
A member of various Dutch Before that was Chief Financial officer of governmental advisory boards.
Executive officer at Sun Rocket Inc. Before that Invensys plc, having previously held various was President of AOL Broadband, Premium and Past appointments: Member of the Supervisory senior finance and management positions Board of Maersk BV until March 2012.
Prior to joining AOL, was a withGlaxoSmithKline for 18 years.
founding partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
Vice President and Chief Operating officer of the Schiphol Group.
Prior to joining Schiphol Group, Previously Chief Operating officer of Time Warner Telecommunications and has served as was a member of the executive board of Deutsche Post Euro Express and held various senior advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and a senior counsel to senior positions with Nedlloyd.
Board Committee Membership Ben van der Veer 61 A Linda Sanford 60 A C N C Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committees A Audit Committees: Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2009 R Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc Nationality: Dutch Nationality: American N Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC Other appointments: Senior Vice President, Other appointments: Member of the supervisory and Reed Elsevier NV boards of AEGON NV, TomTom NV, Siemens Enterprise Transformation, IBM Corporation C C orporate Governance Committee: joint Reed and non-executive director of ITT Corporation Nederland NV and Koninklijke Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV FrieslandCampina NV.
Serves on the board of directors Both of the Executive Directors are directors of Reed of The Business Council of New York State and Past appointments: Chairman of the executive Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC and board of KPMG in the Netherlands and a the Partnership for New York City.
Also serves members of the Executive Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
on the board of trustees of the State University of member of the management committee of the Marike van Lier Lels is a member of the Supervisory KPMG International board until his retirement New York, St Johns University, and Rensselaer Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
All of the other Polytechnic Institute.
Non-Executive Directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
