BUSINESS REVIEW 28 LEGAL Legal professionals make better informed decisions in the practice of In Legal markets, we are a world law and in managing their businesses.
Flagship products for legal research are Lexis.
com and Lexis Advance, which provide federal leading provider of legal, and state statutes and case law, together with analysis and expert commentaries from sources such as Matthew Bender and Michie regulatory and news & business and the leading citation service Shepards, which advises on the continuing relevance of case law precedents.
Research solutions information and analysis to legal, also include news and business information, ranging from daily news to company lings, as well as public records information corporate, government and andanalytics.
Through its litigation solutions, LexisNexis provides lawyers with a suite of tools covering case preparation academic customers.
to processing and review to trial preparation.
LexisNexis partners with law schools to provide services to students as Serving customers in more than 175 countries, LexisNexis Legal part of their training.
& Professional provides resources and services that inform In 2012, LexisNexis introduced in the US two new releases decisions, increase productivity and drive new business.
of Lexis Advance, an innovative web application designed to Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 1,610m.
transform how legal professionals conduct research.
Built on LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York anadvanced technology platform, Lexis Advance allows primary and has principal operations in the New York area, Ohio and North researchers within legal and professional organisations to nd Carolina in the United States, Toronto in Canada, London and Paris highly relevant information more easily and ef ciently, helping in Europe, and cities in several other countries in Africa and Asia them to drive better outcomes.
Future releases will continue to Paci c. It has 10,400 employees worldwide.
expand content and add new innovative tools.
LexisNexis employs lawyers and trained editors with professional legal backgrounds LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised in market facing who review, annotate and update the legal content to help ensure groups.
The most signi cant are Research & Litigation Solutions each document in the collection is current and comprehensive.
and Business of Law Software Solutions in the US and LexisNexis This domain expertise combined with the application of Reed International and LexisNexis Asia outside the US.
These are Elseviers big data HPCC technology means LexisNexis is able supported by global shared services organisations providing to update its entire legal collection faster and more ef ciently, platform and product development, operational and distribution while also identifying and linking content, enabling customers services, and other support functions.
to uncover previously undiscovered relationships between In Research & Litigation Solutions, electronic information documents.
solutions and innovative work ow tools, developed through closecollaboration with customers, help legal and business Legal & Professional Lexis Lexis for Microsoft 2f ce Lexis Library Integration of LexisNexis content, open web LexisNexis UK agship legal online product Unparalleled legal, news and public records search and Microsoft Of ce content for legal professionals Matthew Bender Lexis PSL Critical analysis, checklists, forms, and Premier citation service LexisNexis UK legal practical practice guides authored by industry experts guidance service covering over 50 major practice areas JurisClasseur Lexis Practice Advisor New online legal research tool that New resource that offers guidance to help Largest, most authoritative online legal transforms the way legal professionals attorneys handle transactional matters resource in France conduct research moreef ciently and effectively Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 29 LexisNexis launched Lexis Practice Advisor in the US in 2012, In 2012, LexisNexis launched additional modules of the LexisPSL aweb-based practical guidance product tailored for attorneys product suite which provides lawyers a single destination for their who handle transactional matters.
Additionally, LexisNexis practical legal information needs with direct links to the relevant introduced a legal news solution through the acquisition of Law360 cases, legislation, precedents, forms, practical guidance and providing attorneys with breaking news and analysis by practice expert commentary.
The ability to drive measurable customer area to supplement the legal research process.
value was recognised by the British Legal Awards which has named LexisNexis UK 2012 Supplier of the Year for its innovation, In litigation solutions, LexisNexis released Hosted Concordance authority and understanding of law rms needs.
A similar service Evolution which is a fully hosted service that delivers electronic is being launched across other markets Australia already has 13 discovery review capabilities on an on-demand basis.
Sanction practice area modules and by the end of next year it will have more.
Solutions was also acquired, adding trial presentation software tothe LexisNexis suite of litigation offerings.
In France, LexisNexis is a leading online provider of information to lawyers, notaries and courts.
A heritage brand JurisClasseur and The web-based marketing services group assists law rms in leading authoritative content is provided through multiple formats their client development through Lawyers.
These content sources are, themwith website development, search engine optimisation asin the UK, being combined with new content and innovative andother web marketing services.
workow tools to develop practical guidance and practice LexisNexis Business of Law Software Solutions provides law management solutions.
In 2012, LexisNexis France launched rms with practice management solutions, including time and Lexis360, the first semantic search online tool combining legal billing systems, case management, cost recovery and document information, practical content and results from the web.
Following the success of Lexis for Microsoft Office LMO in US In International markets outside the United States, LexisNexis markets, a Canadian version was launched in 2012.
LMO enables serves legal, corporate, government, accounting and academic customers to access LexisNexis content and services via add-ins markets in Europe, Canada, Africa and Asia Pacic with local toolbars within Microsoft Word and Outlook.
andinternational legal, regulatory and business information.
In 2012, LexisNexis Legal & Professional strengthened its Themost significant businesses are in the UK, France, Australia, positions in Asia through enhanced products created specifically Canada and South Africa.
for legal professionals and practitioners, corporate counsels, LexisNexis focuses on providing customers with leading legal researchers and government institutions in markets collections of content and innovative online solutions to help including India, China and Japan.
In Japan, LexisNexis launched legaland business professionals make better decisions more Lexis AS ONE, a product created specifically for corporate efficiently.
Penetration of online information services has grown compliance and legal professionals to help navigate the strongly and electronic solutions now account for 58% of revenue complexregulatory environment.
In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider offering an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary legislation, case law, expert commentary, and forms and precedents.
Its extensive portfolio includes a number of heritage brands: Halsburys, Tolleys, Butterworths.
The content is delivered through multiple formats from print to online, to mobile apps andembedded in customers workow.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC MARKET 1,610m 1,610m Rest of World Print Other 24% Europe Electronic 76% North America BUSINESS REVIEW 30 LEGAL Market opportunities customers with an integrated and superior experience across Longer term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide USlegal research, litigation services, practice management and isdriven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory client development.
Over the next few years progressive product complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
introductions, often based on the New Lexis platform, leveraging Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing big data HPCC technology, will combine advanced technology demand for online information solutions and practice withenriched content, sophisticated analytics and applications management tools that improve the quality and productivity of toenable LexisNexis customers to make better legal decisions research, deliver better legal outcomes, and improve business and drive better outcomes for their organisations and clients.
Notwithstanding this, legal activity and legal Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services information markets are also influenced by economic conditions and developing further high quality actionable content and and corporate activity, as has been seen with the dampening workow tools, including the development of practical guidance impact on demand of the recent global recession and the and practice management applications.
In 2013, LexisNexis will somewhat subdued environment that followed in North America begin to introduce New Lexis globally.
Additionally, LexisNexis is and in Europe.
focusing on the expansion of its activities in emerging markets.
Strategic priorities Business model, distribution channels and competition LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services are better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of  sold directly to law rms and to corporate, government, enhancing information and information-based workow solutions accounting and academic customers on a paid subscription basis, in its markets.
To achieve this LexisNexis is focused on introducing with subscriptions with law rms often under multi-year next generation products and solutions on the global New Lexis contracts.
platform and infrastructure: leveraging New Lexis globally to continue to drive print to electronic migration and long-term Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets are international growth: and upgrading operational infrastructure, West Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters Kluwer, and Bloomberg improving process efficiency and gradually improving margins.
and Factiva News Corporation in news and business information.
Competitors in litigation solutions also include software In the US, LexisNexis focus is on the continuing development of companies.
significant international competitors include next generation legal research and practice solutions.
It is also Thomson Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
conducting a major upgrade in operations infrastructure and customer service and support platforms.
This will provide E-BOOKS TITLES MOBILE APP DOWNLOADS 1,700 121% 1,100 2011 2012 2011 2012 Increasing numbers of e-book titles reecting enhanced online Sustained growth in the adoption of mobile apps.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 31 2012 2011 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 1,610 1,634 -1% -1% 1% Adjusted operating profit 234 229 2% 4% 4% In Europe market conditions remain subdued, with robust growth 2012 financial performance in online revenue largely offset by declining print revenues.
Underlying revenue growth was positive despite subdued legal The 2012 adjusted operating profit margin improved slightly, with markets in the US and Europe.
Growth was driven by electronic process efficiencies more than offsetting continued spend on new revenues, which account for over 75% of total revenues.
we continued to release new products and platforms which havebeen well received.
The adjusted operating profit margin 2013 Outlook improved in 2012 reecting process efficiency.
We will continue to roll out new products and platforms in 2013 Underlying revenues grew 1%, and underlying adjusted and will maintain our focus on process efficiencies.
markets remain subdued, however, limiting the scope for revenue and profit growth.
In the US, usage and sales of online research and litigation solutions to law rms grew despite challenging market conditions.
Underlying revenues from government and corporate customers also grew modestly.
Print revenues continued to decline, and News & Business revenue declines moderated.
LexisNexis introduced new releases of Lexis Advance during 2012, combining our deep domain expertise and content with Reed Elseviers big data HPCC technology to allow researchers withinlegal and professional organisations to nd highly relevant information more easily and efficiently.
The new applications havebeen well received, with US customer penetration of 45% by2012 year end.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m 1,691 238 234 1,634 229 1,610 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 On a pro forma basis LexisNexis Risk Solutions and LexisNexis Legal & Professional, previously combined as one LexisNexis business, have operated as two distinct businesses from 1 January 2011.
Comparative profit gures for 2010 are presented on a pro forma basis.
BUSINESS REVIEW 32 LEGAL LEXIS ADVANCE: THE RIGHT RESULTS, FASTER AND EASIER Proskauer, a global law rm with of ces in North and About Lexis Advance Lexis Advance is our new South America, Europe and Asia, pairs deep customer agship product for legal understanding with exceptional client service.
Built on the New To keep its lawyers in close touch with clients and Lexis platform and powered ensure they have critical information and insights at byReed Elseviers HPCC their ngertips, Proskauer deploys state-of-the-art technology, it allows primary researchers in legal and technology and information systems.
Through Lexis professional organisations to Advance, LexisNexis Legal & Professionals dynamic nd highly relevant information web-based legal information solution, Proskauer more easily and ef ciently, lawyers enjoy instant access to over 1bn legal, news, driving better outcomes for company & financial documents as well as 36bn them and their clients.
Its intuitive, internet-style searching, easy-to-use ltering capabilities and sophisticated analytical tools help Proskauers lawyers rapidly reach the heart of legal issues.
Whether in court, at home or on the road, Proskauer lawyers can use their rm-wide 30,000 issued iPads or smartphones to nd the answers for their clients whenever and wherever needed.
interactions MORE THAN 30,000 INTERACTIONS WITH LEGAL PROFESSIONALS INFORMED THE DEVELOPMENT OF LEXIS ADVANCE.
OUR CLIENTS EXPECT US TO GET THEM THE MOST EXHAUSTIVE ANSWERS IN THE MOST EFFICIENT WAY.
THE LEXIS ADVANCE IPAD APP HELPS ME PROVIDE THOSE ANSWERS QUICKLY ANYWHERE, ANYTIME.
Andrew E. Rice Attorney at Law Proskauer Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 33 LEXIS ADVANCE PROVIDES OUR LAWYERS WITH A LEGAL RESEARCH OPTION THAT MIRRORS THE WAY THEY SEARCH THE INTERNET, MAKING IT EASIER AND MORE EFFICIENT TO FIND THE NEEDLE IN THE HAYSTACK.
Elizabeth S. Proujansky, Manager of Professional Resources Proskauer
