Why customers choose Regus We chose Regus because therange of services allows usto concentrate on business We offer value, scale, great customer service and growth.
Matthias Wilberg, Commercial Director, andareeasy to deal with.
Heinz Switzerland Customers come to Regus because they Network anywhere business happens, 1 want to conduct their business operations aRegus isnt far away: be that a central ef ciently, simply and with minimal hassle.
business district or a town, a railway They come to us because they need help station or retail outlet, we provide the inmoving to a more exible way of working.
verybest places, and locations from They come to us because they want to which people can work, ef ciently and focus on their business rather than where effectively.
Regardless of who they are or they run it from.
They stay because we are what they do, we enable our customers far more cost effective than traditional ways to bene t from and leverage our of working and because we provide an geographic scale, which exceeds most excellent service.
ofthe worlds very largest companies.
And as our network grows by at least one We are committed to providing our new location a day, our ability tobe even customers with the right workplace at the closer to the customer increases as well.
right time, in the right location every time.
We provide space for just a few minutes to Innovation our scale means our many years: space to drop-in and catch up innovation leads the industry and over the on emails between meetings, to a network last 20 years we have become sensitive of xed locations around the globe.
Across to the precise needs of business.
From all sectors and budgets we have shaped the launch in 2007 of our mobile work our products and services to deliver against membership scheme, Businessworld, our customers needs, when they need it.
through to our latest innovation, Over the last 23 years we have honed our DocumentStation, a cloud based printing approach so that we are acutely aware of service, we are constantly adding to the 2 the needs of business.
products and services that customers can access Only at Regus.
At the heart of our customer offer is ourteam: dedicated, hard-working, Ultimately customers work with us because passionate people who help make sure they believe they have a better chance of thatour customers success is our success.
success than if they didnt.
Our job is to We make signi cant investments in training make sure that we are 100% focused on and development through our School of making sure this happens.
Excellence programme which equips our front-line team members with the right skills to ourish.
As a growing business those that are successful often nd themselves either 3 training and developing new members of our team or developing other parts of the business: the way we help our people grow ensures we attract and retain the very best.
Aside from our great people, the core of ouroffer to customers is based around twoprincipal differentiators our network and our ability to innovate: 4 1 Staples, Reading, UK 2 Extra Motorway Services, Cobham, UK 3 Amersfoort Railway Station, Netherlands 4 Extra Motorway Services, Cobham, UK 5 Laren Community Centre, Netherlands 6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We needed instant availability on exible terms, a prestigious The great bene t of being with Simple, cost effective and location and high quality Regus is its so easy to expand.
does not require a long-term of ces that were in keeping Every day they evolve their commitment.
Regus makes with our own quality image.
service as they learn more setting up in a new country Welooked at a number of about how we do things risk and hassle free.
buildings and providers, but differently at Google.
Wolfgang Gollub, Senior Manager, nothing came close to Regus.
administration general affairs Dr Paul Barreto, Country Manager, Toshiba Europe GmbH Google Portugal Bernard Carey, Director, BMW 5 www.
