e s e t r e g g A r a. t 2 g 4 n. k i I r n o m n w a p l e l p e m t e m a r S f e. n 1 t Implementing the strategy: delivering on our plan Our approach to planning is systematic and rigorous, our country managers focused on delivery.
In an organisation that covers 99 countries A wide variety of tools exists to support the and more than 200 fide ned geographic delivery of the plan, as well as to monitor areas, having a systematic and rigorous performance.
A process of regular reviews Each plan takes our six approach to how we turn our strategy into and implementation checks ensure timely strategic principles as its reality is critical to business success.
Each delivery, primarily through holding teams corereference point, but country has a comprehensive plan that is accountable in a transparent way.
This withspeci c focus on mature owned by the country manager.
Ata high formal business review process is a broad margin and network growth.
level the aim of the plan is to clearly fide ne mechanism to review progress, understand how the mature margin andgrowth targets issues and provide course corrections.
will be delivered, what resources will be Theidenti cation of issues not only ensures required, the people development plan, and, the country can take prompt action on crucially, how best to serve thecustomer.
those areas of the plan which are failing, but also helps the centre know how well Each plan takes our six strategic principles thestrategy is playing out so that course outlined on page 9 as its core reference corrections can be made in a timely fashion point, but with speci c focus on mature and implemented in other geographies margin and network growth.
transcend the Group and are against which all activities must be aligned to ensure The process of review is essential to check success.
Goals are agreed through a the appropriateness and effectiveness of the two way dialogue withthe central senior goals, the strategic pillars and performance, management which ensures buy-in and as well as to allow for adjustment due to transparency.
It is this open culture and changing market dynamics.
However, accountability which then ensures the goals ultimately, the successful execution of the have the best chance ofbeing achieved.
plan rests on the quality of our people as they act as the critical link between it and The plan clearly states what high level delivery of the strategy.
actions will be needed to achieve the goals and speci cally what resources will be required from the Group.
At the heart of each plan is the customer consideration Our business review process of their needs, the opportunities we have tobetter serve them and where they are looking for us for more support.
From this comes the team structure: how we will make sure we have the right people, in theright place, at the right time, focused onthe right things.
Supporting this are the central functions, such as IT and Procurement, which are there to act as enablers for each country plan.
The purpose of the centre is to align itself behind the country goals and enable them to be successful.
It creates the supporting infrastructures that make success more likely, for example shared procurement that reduces costs on a per centre basis therefore helping the country achieve its margin targets.
It is the responsibility of the central functions to also ensure that their plan articulates how their goals are aligned with and support the Groups core strategic objectives.
14 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 w. e P i v l a e n R. 6 r e o r t u i s n a o e M m. 5 &
