Board of directors The role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Group.
Douglas Sutherland N Lance Browne A, N, R Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Douglas Sutherland was appointed Non-Executive Director of Lance Browne was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus Regus on 27 August 2008 and was appointed Non-Executive on27 August 2008, became Senior Independent Director on Chairman on 18 May 2010.
Douglas was Chief Financial Of cer 18May 2010 and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on ofSkype during its acquisition by eBay and was also Chief Financial 27September 2012.
Lance is Vice Chairman of Standard Of cer at SecureWave during its acquisition by PatchLink.
Prior CharteredBank China Limited, Chairman of Travelex China, and tothis, Douglas was previously an Arthur Andersen Partner with Non-Executive Director of G3.
He was previously Non-Executive international management responsibilities.
He has served as a Director of IMI plc, Senior Advisor to the City of London, Chairman director of companies in several jurisdictions and was the founding of China Goldmines plc, and Director of Business Development at Chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Luxembourg.
Douglas is currently also a Director of Median Kliniken S. r. l. and Median Gruppe S. r. l. Mark Dixon Elmar Heggen A, N, R Chief Executive Of cer Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Of cer and founder, Mark Dixon is one of Europes Elmar Heggen was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on best known entrepreneurs.
Since founding Regus in Brussels, 1 June 2010 and was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee Belgium in 1989, he has achieved a formidable reputation for on 27 September 2012.
Elmar has extensive management leadership and innovation.
Prior to Regus he established businesses experience and is currently Chief Financial Of cer and Head of the in the retail and wholesale food industry.
A recipient of several Corporate Centre at RTL Group, the leading European entertainment awards for enterprise, Mark has revolutionised the way business network, where he has held various roles since 2000.
Elmar began approaches its property needs with his vision of the future of work.
his career at the Felix Schoeller Group, becoming Vice President & General Manager of Felix Schoeller Digital Imaging in the UK in 1999.
Dominique Yates Alex Sulkowski A, N, R Chief Financial Of cer Independent Non-Executive Director Dominique Yates was appointed Chief Financial Of cer on Alex Sulkowski was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus 1September 2011.
Previously he served as Chief Financial Of cer on1 June 2010: he also serves as Chairman of the Remuneration at both LM Windpower, the  renewable Committee, having been appointed on 27 September 2012. energy company, and Symrise AG, the MDAX listed speciality Alexhas over 30 years of experience in international finance chemicals company.
He also held senior positions at Imperial structures, private equity, tax advice and real estate.
He is currently Tobacco Group plc, including Group Financial Controller, General the Managing Director of Third Millennium Investments SA and Manager of France, Switzerland, Italy and Malta, and Group Business isafounding member of Taxand, the largest global network of Development Director.
He is a quali ed chartered accountant.
Prior to this Alex enjoyed a career with Arthur Andersen, responsible for the Belgium and Luxembourg taxpractices, prior to joining Ernst and Young in 2002 as the Partner responsible for the Luxembourg tax practice and then serving as the Managing Partner of Atoz Tax Advisors from 2004 through 2009.
Notes A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee www.
