Our strategy Regus aims to serve and pro t from the structural shift to exible work by being the platform of choice from which businesses operate.
Our strategic aims Our approach What we did in 2012 Revenue growth achieved primarily through 2010 new centres matured well with Grow mature revenues addition of maturing new centres, but also nooverall dilutive effect on our Mature and margin through incremental new revenue sources.
business and delivered a post-tax return Active management of the mature estate on gross investment that exceeded 27%.
delivers high occupancy and usage.
Like-for-like revenues were up 2.9% and Together with lower relative overheads, mature REVPOW increased by 2.4%, thisimproves margins.
Growth is demand led, though we are 243 new locations added across all Expand our network always mindful of the risk and return with continents including openings in five each opportunity.
We extend our network newcountries which contributed to a into new markets: both in-country and new 17%increase in network reach.
country, only growing in existing locations where we have excessive demand.
Our scale means we are the only industry Major investment into an upgrade of Accelerate product and player that can constantly innovate.
Much ourtechnology infrastructure to support service innovation ismarket led, responding to, as well as new initiatives such as: ten-fold increase anticipating, customer needs.
Our approach inbandwidth available to customers: to new product development is referred to launching Voice over IP: new cloud as Only at Regus.
Growth of the network into locations Multiple new channels through Maximise the strengths nearerwhere people live and work drives partnerships with organisations such ofour brand and network awareness and interaction.
Record levels of new customer investment in focused, targeted local leads.
Third Place agreements now in marketing to attract new customers.
place across five countries UK, France, Germany, Netherlands and Switzerland.
Make sure we have the right people We now have country managers in place Strengthen management intheright places: empowering local for all our countries and at the same time management and delegating decision have made key strategic hires within our making.
This provides better intelligence Group function.
and insight as well as faster and more appropriate response times.
Achieved through operational excellence, Decrease in overheads per centre: Control overheads scale and innovation.
As our network grows whilstour network grew by 17.3%, so we achieve signi cant scale bene ts and overhead costs increased by only 4.1% operational leverage.
then adds additional bene t. www.
