Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our products Metrology Our technologies help manufacturers to maximise production output, to signicantly reduce the time taken toproduce and inspect components, and to keep their machines running reliably.
In the elds of industrial automation and motion systems our high-quality position measurement and calibration systems allow buildersto manufacture highly accurate and reliable products.
The product range includes the following: Machine tool probe systems Large scale metrology Sensors and software for computer numerically controlled CNC High-speed laser measurement and surveying systems for use metal cutting machine tools that allow the automation of setting inextreme environments such as marine positioning and on-machine measurement operations, leading to more and mine quarryscanning.
productivity from existing machines and reductions in scrap and Fixtures re-work.
These include laser tool setters, contact tool setters, Modular and custom xtures used to hold parts securely for toolbreakage detectors, touch probes and high-accuracy dimensional inspection on CMM, vision and gauging systems.
Materials research Co-ordinate measuring machine CMM products Commercial and research solutions to materials technology Sensors, software and control systems for three dimensional challenges including diamond-like carbon coatings and shape CMMs that allow the highly accurate measurement of memoryalloys.
manufactured components and nished assemblies, including Position encoders touch-trigger probes, automated probe changers, motorised indexing probe heads and five-axis measurement systems.
Position feedback encoders that ensure accurate linear and rotary motion control in a wide range of applications from Styli for probe systems electronics, motorsports, robotics and semi-conductors to food Precision styli that attach to probe sensors for CMMs and manufacturing and print production.
These include incremental machine tools to ensure that accurate measurement data is optical encoders, laser interferometer encoders, magnetic acquired at the point of contact.
encoders and absolute optical encoders.
Performance testing products Additive manufacturing Calibration and testing products to determine the positioning Additive manufacturing and rapid protoyping systems that allow accuracy of a wide range of industrial and scientific machinery the rapid manufacture of components as part of a product tointernational standards, including a laser interferometer and development process or for full-scale production, including laser wireless ballbar.
melting machines, a range of vacuum, nylon and metal casting Gauging machines, injection moulding machines and a range of materials Innovative exible gauging technology, based on the comparison to support these technologies.
of production parts to a reference master part, that can greatly increase throughput and reduce scrap rates at a fraction of the cost of an equivalent custom gauging system.
