Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our structure Board of directors and company secretary Full biographies of the Board of directors are available online: see www.
com directors Sir David McMurtry 72 John Deer 74 Ben Taylor 63 CBE, RDI, FRS, FREng, CEng, FIMechE CEng, FIMechE Chairman and Chief Executive.
Formerly employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Trained as a mechanical engineer Before joining Renishaw Inc as Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding andworked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, Presidentin 1985, he was the Director thepositions of Deputy Chief Designer for14years.
ofEngineering at Shefeld Measurement, and Assistant Chief of Engine Design USA.
Co-founded Renishaw with Sir David ofall Rolls-Royce engines manufactured McMurtry in 1973.
Managing Director of Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc at Filton, Bristol.
Renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily in 1987.
Invented the original measuring probe involved in the commercial direction of Responsible for group marketing, inthe early 1970s and co-founded the Group, with particular emphasis on international operations, human Renishaw with John Deer in 1973. marketing and the establishment of the resources and group quality.
In addition to his role as Chairman Ben also reports to the Board on andChief Executive, Sir David also has Responsible for group manufacturing corporate social responsibility matters.
responsibility for group technology and is and chairman of the overseas marketing chairman of the Nomination committee.
Allen Roberts 63 Geoff McFarland 44 FCA Group Finance Director.
Qualied as a Chartered Accountant in Graduated with a BEng in computer 1972 with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. aided mechanical engineering at before joining Renishaw in 1979.
Heriot-Watt University, where he subsequently worked for several years Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc asa research associate.
After working briey in the high-volume Heads group finance, business systems manufacturing electronic sector, joined and Wotton Travel Ltd. Renishaw in 1994 and appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in 2002.
Heads the group engineering function and is also responsible for group IP andpatents.
Geoff is a non-executive director ofDelcam plc.
12 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Terry Garthwaite 65 David Snowden 75 Bill Whiteley 63 FCA FCA FCMA Non-executive director.
Member of the Nomination and Member of the Nomination and Member of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration committees and Chairman Auditcommittees and Chairman Remuneration committees.
Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Appointed to the Board ofRenishaw plc Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in June 2008. inJuly 2003. inJuly 2003.
Formerly Chief Executive at Rotork plc.
Formerly Group Finance Director Formerly Senior Partner ofKPMG Bill is also the Chairman of Spirax-Sarco atSeniorplc.
Engineering plc, Hill and Smith Holdings Terry is a non-executive director of plc and Brammer plc.
Brammer plc and Wilmington Group plc.
Dr David Grant 64 Norma Tang 48 CBE, FREng, FLSW, CEng, FIET Non-executive director.
Head of Legal and Company Secretary.
Member of the Nomination, Audit Joined Renishaw in 2001. andRemuneration committees.
Qualied as a solicitor in 1988 and since Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc then has specialised in company and inApril 2012. commercial legal matters, advising business clients and as an in-house Currently Vice-Chancellor ofCardiff counsel.
University and previously held leadership positions at Dowty Group and GEC.
Heads the legal and company secretariat function, advising the Board on legal Also member of the governing board compliance and governance matters.
ofthe Technology Strategy Board and Chairof the oversight committee for Catapult centres.
Non-executive director ofthe Defence Science and Technology Laboratory.
