Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Healthcare Above: Renishaw inVia Raman Microscope coupled with a Bruker Nano Systems Innova atomic force microscope.
This combination enables the chemical and topographic analysis of biological samples.
ISO13485:2003 for the design, Performance development, product manufacture Healthcare revenue by region Growth came from across all current andmanagement ofsubcontracted healthcare product lines, with m manufacture of molecular diagnostic spectroscopy achieving record annual systems for infectious diseases.
1 sales driven by increased applications 5 innanotechnology, advanced materials In our neurological business, the next 4 and life sciences.
generation of neuroinspire surgical planning software was CE marked in During the first half of the year, January 2012 and is now commercially weundertook a review of our healthcare available in most European Union business and refocused part of the countries.
Thesoftware continues to be activities to a smaller number of projects, 2 used in planning for Deep Brain Stimulation particularly in our neurological products 3 DBS procedures, a treatment which line.
As part of this review we also decided iseffectively used indisorders of the brain, to withdraw from the supply of radio such as chronic pain, essential tremor, frequency coils for use in magnetic dystonia or Parkinsons disease.
We are resonance imaging MRI scanning seeing increased international interest in research which was no longer considered 2012 2011 neuroinspire fromneurosurgical centres core to our business strategy.
and the outcome of the neurological 1 Far East 7.9 7.8 products business review resulted in There was also an increase in the anumber of staff being reallocated to 2 Continental Europe 9.0 6.3 numberof neuromate robots sold for ourmetrology business, where there neurosurgical sterotactic use.
Frenchay 3 Americas 5.5 4.5 werevacancies for skilled engineers.
Hospital in Bristol, also carried out the 4 UK and Ireland 1.8 2.1 UKsrst Stereo Electro Encephalography Renishaw Diagnostics Limited, which is 5 Other regions 1.9 1.0 SEEG procedures to aid the treatment developing the RenDx multiplex assay ofchronic epilepsy using our robot as system for infectious disease research and Total 26.1 21.7 astereotactic platform.
diagnosis, achieved certication to the international medical device standard 28 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 accurate identication of target positions At the Pittcon 2012 show in March 2012, Performance continued and the delivery of medical devices we demonstrated our new 3D Raman Our dental business saw increasing sales deepwithin the brain for stereotactic imaging capability for our inVia Raman of structures for crowns and bridges, neurosurgery.
microscopes, enabling users to collect especially our LaserPFM metal anddisplay data from within transparent structures, made using an additive A focus is also on nding new markets materials and provide full 3D manipulation manufacturing process, which are at forexisting healthcare technologies.
The decision Agood example is the use of Raman todevelop our dental CAD CAM process spectroscopy as a key component for the At the end of the financial year we intomore of an open system is also Groups emerging molecular diagnostics introduced a new process to dental increasing production volumes by business and its use in research laboratories that allows them to design allowingusers ofawide range of scanners applications including cancer detection dental abutments which are then produced to send their data to our central dental and IVF treatments.
using an additive manufacturing process.
manufacturing units, including our new Our LaserAbutments are metal We also actively consider acquiring facility based in Schaumburg, Illinois, USA.
structures that connect to a dental implant businesses and or technologies that and to which are attached a crown or Market conditions wefeel are complementary to our existing bridge.
Within our dental business we Despite global economic uncertainties, healthcare products.
alsolaunched a new option for users of there are many factors driving our 3shape dental scanners, that allows Key developments healthcare business.
With increasing life them to submit data to our central In December 2011, we introduced a expectancy in developed countries there manufacturing facilities.
newintegrated Raman AFM package, are greater incidences of degenerative developed in collaboration with Bruker neurological diseases which require medical As noted above, within our neurosurgical Nano, that consists of a Renishaw inVia treatments.
In developing markets there are business a key development was the use Reex Raman spectrometer coupled to also higher levels of wealth at a national and of our neuromate robot in the UKs first aBruker Innova compact AFM atomic individual level, which are driving demand SEEG procedure to aid in the treatment force microscope.
By combining both for higher quality medical treatments and ofchronic epilepsy see page 31. analytical techniques users can measure this often means the purchase of more Weexpect that the increasing awareness physical properties at molecular resolution technologically advanced products.
will lead to further robot sales.
and conduct chemical analysis on the Therealso continues to be strong global sub-micrometre scale.
Outlook funding for biomedical research where Following restructuring within the ourspectroscopy systems are increasingly Our spectroscopy product line also healthcare business, we anticipate an seen as a powerful analytical tool.
introduced the RA800-series of benchtop improved performance in the future.
instrument solutions, providing researchStrategy for growth grade Raman microscopy performance With an ageing global population there are As with our metrology business, a key with simple-to-use software for materials rising incidences of neurological disorders focus is developing technologies that analysis solutions across a wide range of which will require surgical therapies and we provide patented products and methods, application areas.
The instruments can are well placed to supply surgeons with the with 10.4m net of capitalisation costs becongured in a range of variants, which products and techniquesto support such ofexpenditure on R&D and engineering differ in excitation wavelength, spectral procedures.
We have been preparing for during the year.
The regulatory coverage, sample handling and software, the future by investing in our global supply requirements for healthcare products enabling OEM companies to provide a chain infrastructure and are actively alsodemand significant investment, system that is optimised for customers seeking regulatory approval for the butmake barriers to entry high requirements.
One variant is already in use neuromate in the USA and Japan to enable forcompetitive products.
with Renishaw Diagnostics, where itforms us to make it commercially available in We aim to develop innovative healthcare part of the RenDx RUO multiplex assay those countries.
products that will signicantly advance our system.
customers operational performance by maximising research capabilities, reducing process times and improving the efcacy of medical procedures.
We are constantly looking at opportunities based on core metrology technologies andexpertise, so minimising technology risks.
This can be seen in the use of measurement sensors, encoders, software and machining technologies for dental CAD CAM products and the application Above: Dental milling machines at central Above: CAD image of a new LaserAbutment ofcore engineering skills that allow the manufacturing facility in Stonehouse 29 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Healthcare continued Theincreasing pressure on public nances in many countries is also leading the drive for faster, more cost-effective healthcare treatments and a reduction in the length oftime that patients spend in hospitals.
One aspect of this is the need to rapidly diagnose infectious diseases for hospitalised patients, so that they can betreated with more specic antibiotics ortherapies which should lead to faster Above: Raman spectroscopy seminar in Tokyo, Japan recovery and discharge.
Renishaw Diagnostics is responding to these challenges with its development of the RenDx multiplex assaysystem.
Especially in emerging markets, rising personal wealth is leading to increased demand for cosmetic dentistry with high-quality aesthetics, whilst in markets where personal incomes and healthcare budgets are under pressure there is demand for lower cost dental crowns and bridges.
Ourdental products are meeting both these requirements and we are seeing especially good growth in volumes of our low-cost metal dental structures produced Above: RA800 series benchtop Raman instrument usinga laser sintering process.
Commercial applications for Raman spectroscopy continue to grow, including new elds such as nanotechnology, advanced materials and the life sciences.
One exciting area is the ability to quickly analyse graphene, a material which has great promise as a key material for future electronic devices.
Within healthcare, researchers are also investigating the potential of Raman spectroscopy to distinguish between cancerous and non-cancerous tissue in vivo and to identify stem cells from differentiated cells in the eld of regenerative medicine.
Client insight Weve been using neuromate since 2001, implanting 2,039 electrodes with it for SEEG procedures.
In late 2008 we started to use the robotic system for all trajectories, making surgery faster, more accurate and virtually without any 3D space constraints.
neuromate assisted implantations were not affected by any major complications.
Dr Francesco Cardinale Neurosurgeon, Claudio Munari Centre for Epilepsy and Parkinson Surgery, Niguarda Hospital, Milan.
30 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Stereotactic robot platform supports SEEG treatment to improve patient outcomes The conventional approach A minimally invasive solution to assessing patients with now used by Mr Sandeman, epilepsy originating outside isthe stereotactic placement the temporal lobe of the of multiple deep brain brain is to insert subdural electrodes Stereo Electro grids: electrodes laid on Encephalography SEEG.
the surface of the brain The precision required to do torecord seizure onset.
this safely has been provided Says Mr David Sandeman, by the Renishaw neuromate Consultant Neurosurgeon surgical robot.
The first case at Frenchay Hospital, was carried out in October Bristol, UK: Thisrequires 2011 and the diagnostic major surgery with quality of videotelemetry has significant risk of been enhanced and the complications and results complication rate of the are also imprecise as surgery reduced by over 90%.
recording of seizure onset in the deep structures of the brain is suboptimal.
