Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Strategy and business model Strategic milestones: We completed the purchase of the Miskin premises in South The Applications Academy continues to evolve.
Programmes Wales on 30th September 2011 and have subsequently are being developed including the Graduate Induction completed refurbishment of 68,500 sq ft for the provision of Programme, the Application Engineers Programme and the additional manufacturing space, to accommodate our rapid Sales Programme.
Engineers from Germany, China, India, growth, and commenced manufacturing.
UK and many other countries have attended training throughout the year.
New product releases during the period include the RESOLUTE ETR, which is our absolute encoder with We have invested significant resource to benefit from the extended temperature range for operation in very cold high-end additive manufacturing sector as well as environments such as aerospace, the XR20-W rotary axis establishing solid foundations to grow revenue from our very calibrator front cover image, the REVO SFP1 surface nish well received Equator product line.
probe p6 image and a multi-axis option for our We acquired R&R Sales LLC, a US-based supplier of xtures Productivity software.
for the global measurement and inspection market, increased In November, Renishaw Diagnostics Limited, which is our shareholding in Measurement Devices Limited MDL developing the RenDx multiplex assay system for infectious from 49% to 66% and acquired Thomas Engineering and disease research and diagnosis, achieved certication to Construction Limited, a company based in Canada in order ISO13485:2003. to strengthen our Canadian distribution and services channel for laser surveying products.
A new subsidiary was established in Mexico to market the Groups products in that country and other Central American countries.
Securing growth for the long term: 1 2 3 4 Continual research efficient high-quality Strong market Building the business creating strong manufacturing presence and focus via acquisition market positions in on emerging markets The highly exacting specications We seek to enhance our product innovative products of Renishaws products mean that portfolio, speed geographic We are focused on expanding efficient, innovative and high-quality marketpenetration and gain ourbusiness globally to allow us We invested 47.9m on R&D manufacturing facilities are vital.
access tonew technologies toaccess increased markets andengineering to maintain Our manufacturing plants are andcustomers via acquisition.
worldwide, with particular marketleading positions in our located in UK, Ireland, India, Wefocus on businesses that have emphasis on growth economies various technologies.
Much of Germany, USA and France.
strong complementary technology such as China, Latin America and ourtechnology is proprietary Webelieve that top-line revenue and people.
We have established over andprotected by patents and or growth isenhanced by providing 60ofces in 32 countries, whilst process know-how.
New products maximum exibility and scalability anextensive network of distributors are principally developed of manufacturing capability for covers all other major industrialised in-houseor by acquisition.
We have recently opened Renishaw consistently takes a Wehave recently purchased a new subsidiary in Mexico to long-term view of engineering and amanufacturing facility inMiskin, support that country and other science-based projects, but as South Wales, which offers Central American countries.
ourGroup Engineering Director, 461,000sq ft of existing factory Weare continually investing in GeoffMcFarland says, It requires space on a193acre site.
ourfacilities, including recently, apassionate belief in the ultimate Wehavealso recently obtained Italy, India, Canada and Spain and commercial viability of the planning permission to refurbish have refurbished our 16,000 sq ft technology, and the ability to hold 26,000sqft at our site near building in Schaumburg, USA.
your nerve, because the length Dublin, Ireland.
Wehave also enlarged our ofces oftime from edgling technology in Brazil, China and Germany.
tocommercial launch can be significant.
16 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 To assure success, we undertake as many of Ability to provide ourcore activities as support in all our possible, including design, markets manufacturing, sales andsupport.
Our We aim to continue at the people forefront of the metrology industry whilst applying our Innovative efficient, significant measurement products and high-quality expertise into our growing processes manufacturing healthcare business.
5 6 7 8 Customer support Consistent organic People Focus on becoming growth asolutions provider We support our customers at People lie at the heart of the alltimes via our global presence, business and we aim to attract, The Group has a long history We are seeking to move from which allows us to build long-term retain and develop high-quality ofprotable growth with excellent supplying technology towards partnerships as they grow and staff that are fully committed to prospects for future growth, driven delivering solutions.
This is evident develop in new directions.
We invest in our facilities by the emerging markets in the in our new product lines dental, and organisation to create developing world and the gauging, neurological, diagnostics, environments which stimulate increasing requirement for additive manufacturing.
This is also positive engagement, high levels solutions that reduce energy increasingly the case in our core ofloyalty and team building.
Total sales growth businesses such as CMM, Wehave a performance-based over the last 30 years has averaged machine tool and calibration.
work culture and are always over 16% per annum.
Thisis driving us to expand looking atways to further engage ourapplications engineering and empower employees.
capabilities, to retrain our sales force and to invest in facilities.
Solutions also change the nature ofour engineering.
They require applications software to deliver thecustomer experience, an area inwhich the business has invested heavily in recent years such as MODUS, Productivity, dental CAD CAM, diagnostics, surgical planning and Apex, using engineers both in the UK and India.
