Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Metrology Above: A demonstration component typical of those used for modelling ow dynamics of a turbine produced using a Renishaw laser melting machine measurement throughput benets offered Performance by REVO have convinced several leading Growth came from almost all metrology Metrology revenue by region engine producers to switch suppliers.
product lines, including the additive m manufacturing products business Our subsidiary MDL also grew its business acquired last financial year through MTT for high-speed laser measurement and 5 1 Technologies.
This new line has benefitted 4 large-scale scanning systems, driven by signicantly from the market credibility of the requirement for enhanced safety the Renishaw brand, our global distribution standards when surveying mines and network, investment in additional quarries, the desire to reduce time and demonstration machines and costs for surveying large areas such as manufacturing infrastructure.
coastlines and ports, and increased use of 3 trafc monitoring systems in urban areas.
A key growth factor was the increasing use of machine tool probe systems by During the year we continued to build the Asian manufacturers in the production infrastructure necessary to support sales 2 ofprecision components for consumer and service of the new Equator gauge products.
With our extensive infrastructure which is increasingly being accepted by investments in the Far East over many the wider market as an alternative to years and manufacturing capabilities, we traditional custom gauges.
This new 2012 2011 are excellently positioned to provide the product also won two more international m m rapid supply and expert local support awards, being judged as winner in the 1 Far East 122.3 106.7 required by customers working in the Best Quality Control Equipment category fast-paced needs of this sector.
2 Continental Europe 86.7 79.4 at the UKs MWP Awards in April 2012 andalso winning the Gold Award at the There was also significant growth in sales 3 Americas 71.3 60.6 Techni-Show Innovation Awards held of the REVO five-axis measurement 4 UK and Ireland 17.1 12.7 inThe Netherlands during March.
system, especially in the automotive 5 Other regions 8.4 7.6 sector, where we have seen excellent adoption rates within manufacturing plants Total 305.8 267.0 where historically our competitors have been the supplier of choice.
The significant 23 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Metrology continued Above: MDLs laser scanning systems are Above: Technology focus includes ultra-high resolution complementary to Renishaws existing products position feedback encoders controllers with enhanced high-speed Market conditions performance, ultra high-resolution position In the relentless drive to reduce costs, feedback encoders and the development shorten lead times and improve the quality of additive manufacturing systems with of nished products, manufacturers are faster processing capability.
We will increasingly adopting the latest Renishaw alsoinvest inbusinesses that provide technologies to keep machines running complementary technologies for fast reliably, to maximise output from those market access, asdemonstrated by the machines and to signicantly reduce the purchase of the R&R xtures business.
time taken to inspect nished components.
The skills shortages faced on a global We constantly evaluate new opportunities basis in engineering and manufacturing for existing technologies to expand upon isalso driving increased investments in our traditional customer base, especially automated processes, many of which within the metal cutting sector.
example is the Equator gauge which transfers existing technologies employed in Despite global uncertainties, our metrology our dental scanning and milling systems to products are supplied to sectors in a new shop oor measurement application.
whichthere are currently high levels of Whilst many sales will be toexisting investment, notably automotive and civil customers, we are also seeing sizeable aviation, where there is a drive to produce opportunities for applications where more fuel efficient engines, and consumer historically no Renishaw products have products produced in Asia that require been utilised.
In the past we have been very much Strategy for growth acomponent supplier, with our products A key focus is on developing technologies integrated by machine builders.
In recent that provide patented products and years a focus has been on offering more methods which support our product products and services that are supplied strategies, with 34.6m net of capitalisation direct to the end-user, increasingly costs expenditure on R&Dand engineering positioning Renishaw as a solutions during the year.
Thecurrent technology provider and reducing the risks of focus includes high-speed, high-accuracy over-reliance on large customers.
dimensional measurement systems, motion Client insight REVO, the exible measuring system, signicantly increases our measuring capacity and also scans deep-set featureswith high accuracy.
Herbert Grau Quality Assurance, MTU Friedrichshafen GmbH, Germany manufacturer of commercial internal combustion engines.
24 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Five-axis measurement speeds upinspection at Kawasaki Kawasakis Maryville, data from complex parts, Ohio, plant in the USA reduced the need for produces single and expensive part xturing, twin-cylinder air-cooled andalso reduced probe or water-cooled engines, calibration times from around 1,000 cc or smaller, for six or seven hours, to just commercial and 45minutes.
Additionally consumer lawnmowers, theincreased throughput as well as for a sister achieved by the REVO plant that manufactures systems is allowing faster all-terrain and utility feedback of data to vehicles.
Kawasakis manufacturing and R&D departments to aid Co-ordinate measuring decision-making on product machines equipped with and process design.
Renishaw REVO systems have signicantly reduced the time to collect measurement See more at www.
com $ 25 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Metrology continued Reliable positioning eliminates expensive machine crashes The companys NovaPlus Miniaturised components series incorporates handling used in modern units, work tables and other micro-electronics and processing units, designed to micro-optics are made pick, place, solder, bond and almost exclusively on inspect components, at high fully-automated Micro speed and with simultaneous Assembly Cells, for motion.
The many horizontal applications in the and vertical axes within the automotive sector, machines use Renishaws telecommunications RESOLUTE true-absolute andIT.
Amicra encoders to reliably detect Mikrotechnologie GmbH theposition of each machine inRegensburg, Germany, develops complex element to avoid crashes machines with high levels andexpensive downtime.
of accuracy and reliability, some capable of mounting micro-components with an accuracy of up to 0.5microns.
com $ 26 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Client insight The main advantage of the RESOLUTE encoders is that they detect the absolute position at all times without a reference run.
Consequently, the Micro Assembly Cells can start their automated cycle quicker, without relying on the operators vigilance, after a stoppage or on commissioning.
Process reliability isimproved, unproductive times are reduced and expensive crashes are prevented.
Horst Lapsien Managing Director, Amicra Mikrotechnologie GmbH, Regensburg, Germany.
For users of CMMs we introduced the Key developments Outlook REVO SFP1 probe which allows surface A major success during the year was The outlook for global investment for nish measurement to be fully integrated thelaunch of our XR20-W rotary axis production systems inautomotive, civil within standard dimensional inspection calibrator at the EMO trade show in aviation, consumer products, agriculture, routines, eliminating the need for handHannover, Germany.
Demand for this construction and power generation held sensors or dedicated machines.
newwireless product, which works including oil, gas and renewables Other products included UCCFusion, together with our laser interferometer continues to look favourable.
These trends acontroller amplier for entry level 3-axis system to assess the performance of should all result in increased demand for computer controlled CMMs with touch rotary axes, was signicantly higher our metrology products tohelp drive trigger probing.
efficiencies, reduce waste, increase automation and aid product measurement For our machine tool probing products There was significant focus on introducing traceability.
We are also expecting a there were also new software releases the newly Renishaw branded additive continuing recovery in the electronics including 64-bit support and a multi-axis manufacturing technology, with many sector which will especially benefit option for our Productivity software, ofour trade stands featuring laser ourposition encoder product line.
whilst our OMV Pro software for onmeltingmachines and several new machine verication now includes more eventsattended specifically for rapid advanced geometric dimensioning and manufacturing products.
There was also a range of new position MDL released new variants of its encoder models introduced during the Dynascan 3D mobile mapping year.
RESOLUTE ETR is a variant of our productrange, including Conic, market-leading absolute optical encoder whichincorporates two lasers into a single with extended temperature range, allowing scanning laser module to achieve a light, it to operate in very cold environments streamlined design that mounts onto a such as aerospace and observatories.
The There were also three new protocols Dynascan HD100 is also the first entry added during the year for the standard intothe high denition 3D mobile laser RESOLUTE encoders, including for the scanning market.
Mitsubishi Melservo-J4 range of servo ampliers, which are regularly used in industries such as electronic assembly, and Fanuc serial communications for linear encoding in the machine tool industry.
The position encoder line was further strengthened by LinACE, a new heavy-duty absolute linear magnetic encoder designed andmanufactured by our associate company RLS, that integrates into hydraulic, pneumatic and electromechanical actuators as a feedback element for position or velocity.
Above: XR20-W rotary axis calibrator Above: LinACE absolute magnetic linear encoder 27
