Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our products Healthcare Our technologies are also helping within applications such as dentistry, neurosurgery, chemical analysis andnanotechnology research.
These include systems, materials and manufacturing services that allow dentallaboratories to manufacture high-quality dental restorations and engineering solutions for stereotactic neurosurgery.
We also supply non-destructive analytical tools that identify and characterise the chemistry andstructure of materials.
The product range includes the following: Dental scanners Raman microscopes 3D contact scanners certied to international standard inVia Raman microscopes comprising a research-grade optical ISO10360-4 for digitising of dental preparations for crowns microscope coupled to a high-performance Raman spectrometer orbridges.
foranalytical applications as diverse as pharmaceutical, forensic science, nanotechnology and semiconductors.
Dental CAD software Dental CAD software that allows set-up of scanning routines Combined Raman systems andenables laboratory staff to design abutments and structures Combined Raman and atomic force microscope AFM for crowns and bridges, including strength calculations.
instruments that investigate chemical and structural properties of materials atsub-micrometre scales.
Also combined Raman and Dental milling machines infrared spectroscopy instruments that identify unknown materials Milling machines and powerful computer aided manufacturing by combiningboth vibrational spectroscopic techniques.
CAM software that allow dental laboratories to machine their own structures from zirconia billets also supplied by Renishaw.
Structural and chemical analyser A structural and chemical analyser SCA that unites scanning Dental structures manufacturing service electron microscopy SEM and Raman spectroscopy to allow A central manufacturing service that can handle CAD les from morphological, elemental, chemical, physical and electronic various dental scanning systems to produce structures for analysis without moving the sample between instruments.
crowns andbridges in zirconia or cobalt chrome and abutments in cobalt chrome.
In situ monitors Compact Raman systems for process monitoring and bulk Neurosurgical robot material analysis enabling in situ monitoring in the laboratory, A stereotactic robot, plus a range of options, that provides pilotplant, orprocess line.
aplatform solution for a broad range of functional neurosurgical procedures including deep brain stimulation DBS and neuroDiagnostic systems endoscopy.
Automated multiplex diagnostic and clinical research systems, currently being developed by Renishaw Diagnostics Limited Neurosurgical planning software forinfectious diseaseidentication.
Planning software that allows advanced planning of targets andtrajectories for stereotactic neurosurgery.
Neurosurgical implantables Implantable devices that allow surgeons to verify expected DBS electrode position relative to targeted anatomy using magnetic resonance imaging MRI.
