Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors remuneration report Other benets Remuneration policy Company cars and other benets provided to directors are The Remuneration committee is responsible for deciding the subject to income tax.
The benets are included in the directors Companys framework of executive remuneration and setting remuneration table in note 7. remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
Geoff McFarland is a non-executive director of Delcam plc, in The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive respect of which no remuneration is payable by Delcam plc.
directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages and incentives.
These are linked to the overall Pensions performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests The Company makes annual contributions of 15% of underlying oftheshareholders.
basic salary to individual pension policies for Ben Taylor and The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive AllenRoberts.
Neither bonus scheme payments nor other directors remuneration, performance and employment.
benets are eligible for pension scheme contributions.
Geoff McFarland is a deferred member of the Companys dened Remuneration committee benefit scheme which closed for future accruals on 5th April 2007 All the members of this committee are non-executive directors and he now participates in the Companys dened contribution and the members and the chair of the committee is identied scheme.
More details are given in note 7. onpages 12 and 13.
The terms of reference of this committee arepublished on the Companys website.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension schemes.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors, which does notcontain any performance-related element, is determined Summary bythe executive directors.
There are no share options available Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form tonon-executive directors.
One non-executive director was the audited section of this report are shown in note 7. appointed during the year.
Service contracts and compensation Remuneration The executive directors have each entered into a service contract Salary with the Company.
The contracts do not contain any specic The Remuneration committee reviews basic salaries to take provisions governing the payment of compensation for loss of effectfrom 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, ofce or employment, whether as a result of a takeover bid or thecommittee takes account of financial data taken from a otherwise.
The notice period for termination of the contract is cross-section of UK companies within the electronics and 12months to be given by either the Company or the director.
The non-executive directors have been appointed under Bonus contracts for services which are intended to continue for This year the committee reviewed the annual bonus scheme aninitialperiod of three years.
However, these contracts may forexecutive directors which is based on Group performance beterminated by either the Company or the director on one asmeasured against a preset earnings per share eps target.
The performance conditions rstly require the achievement eachyear of a base line eps excluding directors bonus and exceptional credits which for 2012 was set at 67.86p, being theeps at which the bonus was capped in 2011, with the target designed to deliver 75% of salary at 98.91p.
The percentage bonus award increases on a straight-line basis between the baseline and the eps target.
In addition there is a further 25% bonus award available for exceeding the eps target based on 5% of salary for every 1p pershare inexcess of target up to a cap of 100% of salary.
For 2012 the Group is reporting eps of 96.42p before directors bonus which therefore gives rise to a bonus entitlement of 96.42 - 67.86 x 75 69.0% of salary for each of the executive directors 98.91 - 67.86 There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in operation for the directors but the position is kept under review.
The non-executive directors do not participate in a bonus scheme.
