Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review expansion of our US business, whilst Review of 2012 across the Great Lakes we acquired a Despite continuing global macroeconomic 17,000 sq ft facility inMississauga to allow uncertainties, we managed to achieve for growth inourCanadian business.
record revenues and record profits, whilststill investing strongly in product An important aspect of our business development, people, infrastructure, formany years, and especially key at marketing channels and manufacturing atime of strong growth, new facilities capacity, to prepare the business for andcompany acquisitions, has been our futuregrowth.
investment in Information Technology IT systems.
Across the Groups worldwide The purchase of the Miskin site was operations we employ common hardware completed at the end of September 2011 and software systems, such as customer and an area of 68,500 sq ft approximately relationship management CRM software, 15% was refurbished to allow component which bring business efficiencies such as part production to commence during May lower costs of maintenance, less reliance 2012.
A multi-million pound investment on local IT staff and the ability to remotely was also made during the year in 29 CNC diagnose issues from the Groups central machine tools, of which 17 will be located IT functions.
It is also these efficiencies at Miskin and the remainder at our that enable Renishaw to be one of the Stonehouse machine shop.
In June 2012, quickest reporting companies listed in permission was also granted for a theLondon FTSE index.
26,000sq ft expansion of our existing Irish manufacturing facility, whilst associate During the year we worked on multiple business RLS moved to new purpose-built ITprojects including infrastructure at facilities in Slovenia.
Miskin and the new additive manufacturing business based in Staffordshire.
With projected future growth in R&D Recognising the benets of faster expenditure across all product lines and communication, plus time and the required growth in corporate support costsavings, there were also new functions, there were also planning videoconferencing systems installed applications submitted and approved atourofces in Bangalore, Old Town forexpansion at New Mills a phased Wotton-under-Edge, Staffordshire development of 230,000 sq ft and andthe York ofce of our subsidiary Chareld 50,000 sq ft.
In other territories, our Spanish subsidiary There was also a renewed focus on completed the purchase, refurbishment recruitment, enabling us to achieve both and move toa new facility near Barcelona an increase of 229 staff during the year airport, inItaly we purchased the building against a backdrop of skills shortages which we have occupied since the early andto revitalise our graduate recruitment 1990s, Renishaw Inc refurbished and programmes, which will see an additional re-occupied a 16,000 sq ft building 40 young people start their careers with formerly tenanted to provide space for Renishaw during summer 2012. production of dental structures and Client insight Quality is critical to us, we constantly strive to achieve 100% quality, at the same time as improving efficiency and passing those savings on to the customer.
Equator has taken us to another level.
Mr Shantibhai Changela Managing Director, Kishan Autoparts, Gujarat, India.
