Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our structure Board of directors and company secretary Full biographies of the Board of directors are available online: see www.
com directors Sir David McMurtry 72 John Deer 74 Ben Taylor 63 CBE, RDI, FRS, FREng, CEng, FIMechE CEng, FIMechE Chairman and Chief Executive.
Formerly employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Trained as a mechanical engineer Before joining Renishaw Inc as Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding andworked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, Presidentin 1985, he was the Director thepositions of Deputy Chief Designer for14years.
ofEngineering at Shefeld Measurement, and Assistant Chief of Engine Design USA.
Co-founded Renishaw with Sir David ofall Rolls-Royce engines manufactured McMurtry in 1973.
Managing Director of Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc at Filton, Bristol.
Renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily in 1987.
Invented the original measuring probe involved in the commercial direction of Responsible for group marketing, inthe early 1970s and co-founded the Group, with particular emphasis on international operations, human Renishaw with John Deer in 1973. marketing and the establishment of the resources and group quality.
In addition to his role as Chairman Ben also reports to the Board on andChief Executive, Sir David also has Responsible for group manufacturing corporate social responsibility matters.
responsibility for group technology and is and chairman of the overseas marketing chairman of the Nomination committee.
Allen Roberts 63 Geoff McFarland 44 FCA Group Finance Director.
Qualied as a Chartered Accountant in Graduated with a BEng in computer 1972 with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. aided mechanical engineering at before joining Renishaw in 1979.
Heriot-Watt University, where he subsequently worked for several years Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc asa research associate.
After working briey in the high-volume Heads group finance, business systems manufacturing electronic sector, joined and Wotton Travel Ltd. Renishaw in 1994 and appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in 2002.
Heads the group engineering function and is also responsible for group IP andpatents.
Geoff is a non-executive director ofDelcam plc.
