16 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Strategic Plan for 2013 Strategic Plan for 2013 Outstanding Customer Service Customer Voice Counts is now industrialised across most of our organisation and is now included in the bonus targets of many managers in order to drive outstanding customer service.
A focus for the coming year will be on driving material improvements in colleague behaviour and in the handling of customer enquiries.
Further investment in processes and systems will be made in 2013.
There are specic initiatives in two of our largest businesses City Link and France.
In City Link the key aims for 2013 will be to use customer feedback consistently to drive improvements across the business.
In France a customer care pilot will be initiated from Q2.
This project will draw on best practice across both the division and the group and will seek to roll out a comprehensive solution for customer care across all French operations, on a regional basis, before the end of 2013.
The group is also rolling out proactive customer account management processes following successful pilots conducted in the UK pest control and hygiene businesses in 2011. Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Strategic Plan for 2013 17 Cost Developing and Cash Capability In 2012 Rentokil Initial launched its U university to Cost savings are targeted at 50m for 2013.
We aim to bring together all learning and development activities achieve this through branch administration back ofce and maintain high levels of colleague engagement rationalisation and efficiencies, service and IT productivity and enablement.
Particular focus will be on the Netherlands, France, It also launched People Services to enhance its people Germany, Australia and North America, as we realise the management processes.
The Company continues to use benets of the structural and operational integration that its Your Voice Counts YVC survey to ensure it listens to we are implementing across the group.
colleagues and takes action to enhance motivation.
Capital expenditure on IT increased from 27.5m to 31.8m in 2012 with further increases planned for 2013 as we roll out the Programme Olympic initiatives and Growth replace 35 year old systems in our Benelux workwear and hygiene business.
The group anticipates both organic revenue growth in 2013 and further growth through bolt-on acquisitions.
Initiatives this year will realise the benets of the product Operational and service innovation that we developed during 2012 Excellence and will include the launch of the new Signature hygiene range and implementation of the On Site Service Key priorities this year will include a continuation of the proposition in a number of hygiene markets.
City Link turnaround, establishment of a Shared Service Centre SSC for Asia based in Malaysia, and the roll out Further roll out of the Advantage sales tablet is planned of a consistent Target Operating Model TOM across in pest control, supplemented by a range of initiatives to the group.
In addition, we will launch an internally developed, unique range of workwear garments The TOM will bring greater consistency and efficiency to following the acquisition of workwear design company our SSC operations and will allow us to regionalise support CAWE in 2011. functions such as customer care.
The group will continue to target bolt-on businesses, primarily in the pest control category, with an emphasis on North America, MENAT, Latin America and other high growth markets.
We will also look to build our position in the attractive workwear and hygiene categories.
