Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Report of the Board 43 The terms of the directors service contracts are disclosed in Board composition the Directors Remuneration Report starting on page 60.
Directors Biographical information of each director who served during the interests in shares are disclosed on page 72. year including their knowledge and experience can be found on pages 40 and 41.
Angela Seymour-Jackson joined the board Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of on 5March 2012. the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and will be available at the AGM In summary: which will take place on 15 May 2013.
A pro-forma of nonWe have a strong board which works hard to provide effective executive directors letters of appointment is available at governance over the Company www.
com The boards specic knowledge and experience ranges across Code Principle: B.
7 All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to the UK, European and international services sector as well as in continued satisfactory performance.
multi-national business leadership and the development andexecution of strategy Induction The board collectively has a high level of international experience Following the appointment of any new director, the chairman, of finance, risk, control, governance, operations andmarket in conjunction with the company secretary and the group HR development director ensures that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is made available.
The company secretary is on hand The boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive directors to answer any questions which may arise.
who can apply their wider knowledge and experience to their understanding of the Companys affairs.
As mentioned in the The process followed on the induction of Angela Seymour-Jackson, chairmans introduction, diversity considerations are among the and which would apply for other appointments, is set out below.
important factors considered by the nominations committee and the board when contemplating the future composition of the board.
Appointments to the board are made on the On appointment recommendation of the nominations committee and following The company secretary provides information on the groups arigorous selection process.
businesses, including: Board minutes from the prior year The board has considered the balance of skills needed to steer Key board papers from prior year which are still relevant the group through the period of turnaround and transition which Key policies and procedures has been underway since 2008.
The board is satisfied that for the immediate future it is appropriate to retain as far as possible Governance information about the Company, including the role of the board, committees, chairman and chief executive the knowledge and experience of the groups transformation of existing board members.
Guidance for directors on the UK Listing Authority and Financial Reporting Council publications The board has made a statement of its aspiration to have two female board members by 2015.
1 Every Company should be headed by an effective board which is Post appointment development collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Before and after the first board meeting the new director will attend: Business brieng with the Chief Executive and the Chief Annual re-election Financial officer In accordance with the Code the directors are subject to annual Meetings with other members of the senior management team re-election by shareholders.
To enable shareholders to make an Meetings with country managers informed decision, the 2013 notice of the annual general meeting Visits to sites within the UK and overseas the AGM includes biographical information and a statement as Meeting with auditors and financial advisers to why the Company believes the directors should be re-elected.
Meetings, with the external legal advisers on UK company law, The results of the individual director performance review directors duties and regulatory requirements undertaken by the chairman indicate that each director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of Code Principle: B.
4 all directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly effective directors of the Company and demonstrate the update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
appropriate level of commitment to the role.
