40 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors 2 3 1 6 7 8 9 developing marketing agenda for Chief Executive of Irish Distillers 1.
Alan Brown Rentokil Initials brands.
He also and a director of CityJet Ltd Chairman Chief Executive held senior executive roles at Ireland and Mey ki Turkey.
Committee memberships Committee memberships None Vodafone, including Chief Chairman, Nominations committee Current external commitments Skills and experience Joined Executive of Northern Europe, and relevant qualications Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial as Chief Executive Middle East and Africa operations Chairman of British American Rentokil Initial as Chairman in May in April 2008.
Prior to this, he was and Chief Executive of Vodafone Tobacco plc and Voicesage Global 2008 and prior to that had a Chief Financial officer of ICI from UK.
Prior to this he held senior Holdings Ltd. Non-executive successful executive career as 2005 to 2008.
Before ICI, he spent positions at Kingsher plc and director of Carlsberg A S Chief Executive of Imperial 25 years at Unilever plc in various Tesco PLC and was a director Denmark and Eurasian Natural Chemical Industries plc ICI from corporate, operational and finance of WH Smith PLC.
Before joining ICI in roles in the UK, Europe, Taiwan Current external commitments MrBurrows is a graduate of 1997 he held a number of positions and China including Senior Vice and relevant qualications Wesley College, Dublin Ireland.
at Unilever, from 1974, within Birds President Finance, Unilever Food Chairman of SuperGroup plc, AChartered Accountant.
Eye Walls, Quest International and and Beverage Europe and latterly Chairman of MCPC-PRS Alliance Unichema International.
A director Executive Chairman, Unilever Ltd known as PRS Music and of 5.
Alan Giles of Sara Lee Corporation USA until China.
Six Degrees Technology Group Non-executive Director June 2012.
Current external commitments Ltd. Age 59.
Committee memberships Current external commitments and relevant qualications Chairman, Remuneration committee and qualications Chairman of Anon-executive director of Intertek 4.
Richard Burrows Member, Nominations committee United Utilities Group plc and Group plc.
Barrister and Chartered Non-executive Director non-executive director of Management Accountant.
Skills and experience Joined Committee memberships Rolls-Royce PLC and J Sainsbury Rentokil Initial as a non-executive Member, Remuneration committee plc.
Graduated from Manchester director in May 2006.
Peter Bamford University with a first class Skills and experience Joined extensive commercial and Non-executive Director honours degree in chemical Rentokil Initial as a non-executive strategic service industry Committee memberships experience, having led two major physics and, after completing his director in January 2008.
Member, Audit committee retail brand businesses through doctorate, was awarded a research significant international business significant periods of change.
Skills and experience Joined experience ranging from leading Formerly Chief Executive of HMV Rentokil Initial as a non-executive successful manufacturing and Group plc, Managing Director of director in July 2006.
He was one service businesses in the drinks Waterstones, a director of WH of the key architects of developing industry to banking and financial Smith PLC, and a non-executive the global Vodafone brand as Chief services roles.
Formerly Governor director of Somereld plc and Marketing officer and director of of the Bank of Ireland, joint Chief Wilson Bowden plc.
Vodafone Group plc from 1998 to Executive and latterly a 2006.
He brings extensive non-executive director of Pernod experience to the board over the Ricard SA France, Chairman and Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Board of Directors 41 management of large complex 8.
Andy Ransom international service businesses Executive Director and having previously served as Chief Managing Director, Financial officer of Fitness First West region Group Ltd and prior to that Group Committee memberships None Finance Director of Kingsher plc, Skills and experience Joined Finance Director of B&Q plc and Rentokil Initial as an executive Chief Financial officer of Virgin director in May 2008.
4 for the West region business and Current external commitments the group legal and M&A functions.
and relevant qualications Chief He was responsible for Rentokil Financial officer of Ocado Group Initials Asia-Pacic businesses in plc.
Age 47. executive at ICI 1987-2008 where he was responsible for a number of 11.
Jeremy Townsend group functions and international Chief Financial Officer businesses including ICIs regional Committee memberships None and industrial divisions.
He served as the executive Vice President of Skills and experience Joined Mergers and Acquisitions, General Rentokil Initial as Chief Financial Counsel and Company Secretary officer in August 2010.
Formerly and was responsible for a number finance director of Mitchells & of group functions.
Butlers plc, having been previously an executive at J Sainsbury plc Current external commitments where he held various finance and relevant qualications roles including Group Financial No other appointments.
Mr Controller, Corporate Finance Ransom is a graduate of the 10 11 Director and Strategy Director.
Prior to Sainsburys, he was A Solicitor.
Age 49. employed by Ernst & Young, Current external commitments Current external commitments working in audit and corporate and relevant qualications and relevant qualications 9.
Chairman of Fat Face Group Ltd, Chief Executive of TUI Travel plc.
Non-executive Director a director of the Ofce of Fair A Chartered Management Committee memberships Current external commitments Trading and Book Tokens Ltd.
Member, Remuneration committee and relevant qualications Associate Fellow at Oxford No other appointments.
Graduated Skills and experience Joined Universitys Said Business School.
William Rucker from Manchester University with a Rentokil Initial as a non-executive Honorary visiting professor at Cass Non-executive Director first class honours degree in director on 5 March 2012.
Age 58. to 14 March 2013 Management Science.
was the chief executive of RAC A Chartered Accountant.
Peter Long Member, Audit committee the RAC she held roles as Non-executive Director Paul Griffiths Distribution Director of Aviva UK Skills and experience Joined Senior independent director Company Secretary Life and Norwich Union Insurance.
Rentokil Initial as a non-executive Relevant qualications Committee memberships director in February 2008.
A Current external commitments Chartered Secretary.
Member, Remuneration committee leading UK corporate nancier, and relevant qualications Member, Nominations committee bringing to the board a Managing Director, Corporate contemporary financial market Solutions at Aegon UK Plc.
A Skills and experience Joined perspective as well as added member of the Chartered Institute Rentokil Initial as a non-executive expertise over company nancing of Marketing and the Chartered director in October 2002.
Serving from his role as chief executive of Insurance Institute, with a masters Chief Executive of a global service Lazard & Co. Ltd.
He joined Lazard degree in Marketing.
Age 46. business, TUI Travel plc, with over in 1987 from Arthur Andersen.
Led the creation of the Current external commitments Non-executive Director TUI Travel Group, executing a and relevant qualications Chief successful strategy of industry Executive of Lazard & Co. Ltd in Committee memberships consolidation and organic growth the UK, deputy chairman of Lazard Chairman, Audit committee with a focus on differentiated LLC.
Chairman of Quintain Estates Member, Nominations committee service offerings.
Previously held and Development plc and Skills and experience Joined positions as non-executive director chairman of Crest Nicholson Rentokil Initial as a non-executive of Debenhams plc and RAC plc and Code Principle: B.
1 Holdings Ltd. A non-executive director in July 2005.
As serving The board and its committees should Chief Executive of Sunworld Ltd. director of Newbridge Limited.
Chief Financial officer of Ocado have the appropriate level of skills, AChartered Accountant.
Age 49. experience, independence and Group plc he brings current and knowledge of the Company to relevant experience of the financial enable them to discharge their respective duties.
