20 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Divisional Highlights Textiles & Hygiene Understanding Textiles & Hygiene Revenue CER m Group Revenue % Business Mix % Location % 905.1 883.2 857.3 2010 2011 2012 Key Key Key 33% of Group Revenue 49% Workwear 80% Europe 33% Hygiene 16% Pacic 9% Other 4% UK and Ireland 7% Pest Control 2% Plants profit rose by 3.5% 3.5% organic driven by strong performance in Benelux as well as growth in Germany and France.
Market Conditions Overall performance across our markets was stable, Outlook despite difficult market conditions.
Revenue growth The economic outlook in the Eurozone for 2013 continues was slow in Benelux in weak market conditions, to look challenging.
However, initiatives in sales & marketing however the business delivered significant gains will help mitigate these adverse conditions.
Initiatives in profitability reecting further turnaround of the include further roll out of the Reection range, launch of business and prior-year restructuring.
profit growth the new Signature range and launch of seven new garment was negatively impacted in France by changes in profit collections in workwear.
On-going development of our internal sharing legislation and also in Australia, where the pest workwear supply chain will result in a significant increase in jobs and products business suffered from adverse the internalisation of our garments development and supply, weather conditions.
Our German operations continue supported by a reorganisation of warehousing operations in to perform robustly.
significant investments are also being made in processing capacity in our growing cleanroom businesses.
Cost efficiencies will continue to be pursued Performance in processing and back ofce administration.
Performance from the Textiles & Hygiene division was impacted by an increasingly difficult macro-economic Focus for 2013 environment in Northern Europe.
Revenue grew by 2.5% 0.8% organic after adjusting for the acquisition of a workwear Integration of pest control and plants businesses into 1 supply chain business in Q4 2011 and the disposals of Austrian existing operations by country division to be named at linen and Australian towel rolls cleaning businesses in H1 as Eastregion 2012.
Despite a general slow down in the economy Germany delivered another robust performance with growth of 4.2%.
Launch of new innovative product lines in both workwear 2 France grew by 2.4% and the Benelux by 0.5%.
Australia grew and hygiene categories by 1.2% reecting a strong increase in contract sales, offset by Continued focus on customer care 3 adverse weather conditions affecting the pest control product and job business.
While new business was only 1.7% higher Investment in processing productivity and capacity 4 than the prior year, terminations improved by 17.6% leading Further cost savings programmes including additional to divisional customer retention of 89.1%, up 2.7% on 2011.
5 investments in processing, back ofce efficiencies and integration of service lines into single country structures
