18 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators Measuring achievement in 2012 The CEO uses 16 key performance indicators KPIs to judge progress towards strategic objectives.
They are grouped within three categories: Colleagues, Customers and Shareholders.
The groups progress against these KPIs is shown below.
KPIs Results 2012 2011 Colleagues Colleague engagement enablement 71% 70% 72% 69% Your Voice Counts an employee engagement survey representing aggregate engagement rating from these reports Sales colleague retention 70% 65% The reciprocal of total sales heads leaving in year as percentage of sales headcount at start of year Service colleague retention 77% 72% The reciprocal of total service heads leaving in year as percentage of service headcount at start of year Health & Safety lost time through accidents LTA rate 1.20 1.44 Dened as work-related injury illness resulting in employee absenteeism for one day shift or more excluding day shift in which the accident occurred.
Number of lost time accidents expressed as rate per 100,000 standard working hours Customers Gross sales percentage of opening portfolio 14% 15% Additions to portfolio new business and additions to existing business but excluding price increases expressed as percentage of opening portfolio Customer retention percentage 84.9% 83.9% The reciprocal of total terminations reductions and terminations expressed as percentage of opening portfolio Net gain percentage of opening portfolio 1.6% 1.6% Movement in portfolio expressed as percentage of opening portfolio State of Service 98% 98% Total number of service visits performed divided by total number of visits due Customer satisfaction Customer Voice Counts 8.8 7.6 Measured by average net promoter score rating across all branches.
The CVC score represents the net balance of those customers promoting our service compared with those neutral or not promoting Shareholders Organic revenue growth 0.8% 0.5% Revenue growth excl.
acquisitions and disposals Total revenue growth incl.
acquisitions 2.8% 1.2% Year on year increase in total revenue expressed as percentage of prior year revenue at CER APBITA margin 9.0% 8.8% Before amortisation and impairment of intangibles excluding computer software, reorganisation costs and one-off items Debtors days sales outstanding DSO 49 45 Trade debtors gross of provisions calculated on the exhaust basis i. e. going back over relevant number of preceding days invoicing until debt balance is zero.
Number of days taken debtor days Cost savings 59m 44m Savings delivered in year related to permanent cost reductions Cash conversion as percentage of operating profit 92% 92% Operating cash ow expressed as a percentage of APBITA Gross capex as percentage of depreciation 107% 103% Cash capital additions net of proceeds from disposals expressed as percentage of depreciation excluding Initial Facilities Spain where the business is being scaled down to reduce financial exposure.
This has impacted group performance by 0.4%.
