12 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Transforming the Business 2008 to 2012 Transforming the Business 2008 to 2011 The business has undergone significant structural and transformational change from the second half of 2008.
Key events and milestones are detailed below.
2008 2009 A year of change Delivering on our promises 2008 was particularly challenging for Rentokil Initial, In 2009 we delivered on our promises by substantially involving significant management change and year-on-year improving customer service, maximising cash ow and declines across all but one division.
Operating profits fell accelerating cost savings.
Group state of service rose to by just under 50% reecting poor performances from 98%, operating cash ow grew by 187m to 317m and five key businesses City Link, UK Pest Control and 82m of savings were generated across the business.
Washrooms and Australia Pest and Washrooms.
Reecting both its dissatisfaction with performance and as a measure Developing capability to preserve cash, the board decided not to recommend We made strong progress this year in driving HR a final dividend for 2008. initiatives, including upgrading functional and operational management, performance management and global grading.
Senior management was strengthened by the Group assessment appointments of new managing directors and finance A review by new management appointed in Q2 2008 directors for the Textiles & Hygiene, Asia Pacic and Pest concluded that while the group comprised businesses Control divisions, and for the UK pest control business.
operating in leading market positions, performance had been systemically undermined by operational weakness.
This included lack of focus on customer service and care, insufficient focus on operational excellence and consistent failure to execute major change or acquisition integration programmes.
-50% Capability Service Cost savings Fall in operating profit Excellence Growth In 2009 our management team in Asia underwent significant change with the appointments of a new managing director, finance director and new senior In 2008 operating profits fell by Five key strategic thrusts were country heads just under 50% reecting poor identied to improve the fortunes performances from five key of Rentokil Initial Mobilising for growth businesses Our focus until the first half of 2009 was directed at service and operational excellence.
At the beginning of H2 we First signs of progress turned our attention to the growth agenda.
Our strategic A Vision and Value set was created along with 18 key objectives were to increase share in our established markets performance indicators by which to judge progress.
Cash through effective sales & marketing, service expansion generation was identied as a top priority.
By the end of the and by acquisition.
In addition, we sought to develop our year we had made significant improvements in customer presence and capability in growth markets, including the service, operational excellence and accounts receivables.
Middle East, China and India.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Transforming the Business 2008 to 2012 13 2010 2011 On-going structural change Building momentum Two and a half years since the appointment of new In 2011 our operational excellence agenda delivered management, considerable and, in most cases, successful increasing revenue growth in the pest control, hygiene, structural change had been implemented.
Rising service textiles and facilities services categories despite no easing levels were reected in improving rates of retention across of market conditions.
We were particularly pleased with our contract businesses.
60m cost savings were made, cash the rates of growth achieved towards the end of Q4.
During generation remained at an excellent 114% conversion from the year our acquisitions also performed well, contributing profit and net debt fell below 1bn.
Senior management was a net 41m of the increase in revenue.
Cost savings of strengthened further through the appointments of a new group 44m were generated during the year.
Chief Financial officer and managing director for Initial Facilities.
Mixed performance from turnaround Disappointments at City Link businesses City Link and Textiles & and Textiles & Hygiene Benelux Hygiene Benelux Sentiment in 2010 was, however, negatively impacted by We were pleased with the performance of Textiles & set backs at City Link and in Textiles & Hygiene Benelux.
Hygiene Benelux in 2011, with the business achieving its While severe weather affected trading at the beginning and planned revenue and profit growth targets during the year.
at the end of 2010, overall management of City Link was The business was accordingly removed from the critical list.
weak, evidenced by high usage of ad-hoc sub-contractors, However, while considerable operational progress was inadequate contingency planning and poor engagement of made at City Link in the areas of sales & marketing, front-line colleagues.
In Textiles & Hygiene Benelux several operations, customer care, and contingency planning, years of weak management control resulted in higher than financial performance was disappointing with lower RPC anticipated restructuring costs and inappropriate pricing and poor productivity resulting in increased losses for the decisions.
Although controls began to improve on the year.
We were very pleased to welcome to City Link a new, appointment of new management in December, recovery highly experienced management team from Parcelforce in remained at an early stage of development.
Q4 2011 and during the first half of 2012.
Delivering profitable growth Resumption of dividend payments Despite the weak performances in City Link and Textiles & Although the board was not satisfied with the financial Hygiene Benelux, adjusted profit before tax grew by 15% to performance of City Link, good progress in Textiles & 192.3m.
Double digit growth in Pest Control, Initial Facilities Hygiene Benelux and the rest of the group, continued strong and Asia Pacic reected the impact of new management, cash generation, reductions in net debt and resolutions robust cost control and restructuring programmes.
In addition to pension funding and borrowing arrangements, gave the Programme Olympic piloted various initiatives to underpin sales board sufficient confidence to recommend payment of and provide potential for growth including IT investments to aid a final dividend in respect of 2011. sales productivity, cross selling, job sales and pricing, customer account management and customer complaint management.
Growth was also aided by service line expansion in Initial Facilities through the acquisition of Knightsbridge Guarding.
