14 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Achieving our Objectives in 2012 Achieving our Objectives in 2012 Since 2008 the Company has invested in the capability of its people and systems.
During 2012 we focused on delivering the benefits of this investment through four key objectives.
Customer Voice Counts the groups survey of customer Objective 1 satisfaction, is now included in the bonus targets of many managers in order to drive outstanding customer service.
To turnaround the financial performance of City Link 1.2 Average CVC score increase from 20112012 Over the year we have signicantly improved customer satisfaction across the group gaining on average 1.2 points from our CVC survey Operational efficiencies at City Link this year included strengthening of Objective 3 management capability, systems and processes To deliver 50m cost savings from In 2012 City Links management began implementation of productivity, procurement and back office a comprehensive recovery plan anticipated to show material rationalisation initiatives improvements by Q3.
The plan has delivered productivity The group achieved 59m of cost savings versus a target savings through driver efficiency supported by route and of 50m in 2012 through a combination of restructuring, round optimisation and a move to variable pay for owner procurement, service productivity and back ofce drivers and reductions in trunking, warehouse operations rationalisation.
Textiles & Hygiene delivered 18m savings and back ofce costs.
Other initiatives have involved further from restructuring in France and Benelux, overheads and strengthening of management capability, systems and direct indirect procurement.
Pest Control generated cost processes and a review of sales effectiveness.
Over the year savings of 15m from restructuring in North America, the City Link has achieved a 13% reduction in cost per delivery, UK and Nordics Ambius, Property Care, Medical and UK volume growth of 17% and a 16% reduction in operating Washrooms operations.
City Link delivered 17m from depot losses.
However, offsetting this operational progress RPC driver, warehouse and hub and trunking cost initiatives.
has declined by 10% as our sales mix has moved toward 9m cost savings were generated in Initial Facilities from large Tier 1 Business to Consumer customers.
Efforts to business restructuring, procurement, property rationalisation, maximise retention of the more profitable smaller customers workforce management and through the application of LEAN is a key priority for 2013. initiatives to improve gross margins.
LEAN is a collection of tools, techniques and methods used to eliminate waste, City Link cost reductions year on year improve customer experience and reduce costs.
13% 17% 16% Reduction in Growth Operating loss cost per delivery volume reduction 59m Cost savings vs. a target of 50m Cost savings in 2012 have been invested back into the group in sales & marketing Objective 2 and information technology enabling us to operate more efcienctly To drive greater customer satisfaction Cost savings are calculated on a gross basis and do and retention through customer care and not take into account the impact of cost ination in the Customer Voice Counts CVC initiatives business.
In the current economic environment cost ination Following the successful introduction of customer care in fuel, products and colleague remuneration has been technology in City Link we have begun to roll out best running at levels in excess of our ability to recover our cost practice across the group.
A major pilot is underway in increases through price increases with our customers.
Textiles & Hygiene France, with both Germany and the In addition, we continue to invest in the capability of the Benelux commencing pilots from Q2 2013.
The group is business, particularly in the areas of sales & marketing and also rolling out proactive customer account management information technology.
These two factors have absorbed processes following successful Programme Olympic pilots the cost savings generated in 2012, with profit growth conducted in the UK pest and hygiene businesses in 2011. effectively driven by increased revenues.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Achieving our Objectives in 2012 15 Objective 4 To achieve growth through marketing & innovation, Programme Olympic and acquisitions The groups marketing & innovation M&I function made good progress in 2012.
Its goal is to position Rentokil Initial as the industry leader in pest control and hygiene globally for a broad range of customer types.
A Where to Play & How to Win framework has been established.
Step 1 focuses on how to prioritise resource allocation Where to Play.
Step 2 relates to capturing growth opportunities and considers pricing, density, and service & product differentiation How to Win.
The new Signature range features a new contemporary design that signicantly reduces the spread of germs The M&I function has identied nine priority projects for implementation in a number of partner countries.
Examples Acquisitions & Disposals of some of these projects are: The group continues to pursue a strategy of growth through carefully targeted acquisitions and purchased a number The roll out of Advantage, giving pest control sales of bolt-ons in the Pest Control, Initial Facilities and Textiles colleagues a professional tool to conduct thorough surveys & Hygiene divisions during 2012 and a significant pest and produce comprehensive reports for customers in the control acquisition in the US.
In Pest Control we acquired eld.
Advantage is now in use with over 100 UK surveyors businesses in Italy, Turkey, Brazil, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Canada and business benets include improved surveyor and the United States.
We were particularly pleased to have productivity and retention and introduction of new services acquired California-based pest control and distribution to customers.
Launch in a number of European countries company, Western, for an initial consideration of $92.6m is the first stage of a wider implementation plan.
The companys pest control Development of a similar tool for hygiene is underway business offers both residential 52% and commercial with pilot studies in 2012 and a phased roll out across 48% services from 36 locations.
The companys specialty hygienes sales force planned for 2013 products division, Target, is the West Coasts leading The further development of PestNetOnline with the wholesale distributor of specialty agricultural chemicals, launch of PestConnect remote monitoring application equipment, products, supplies and services The launch of a premium hygiene product range, and operates from 13 branch locations.
The acquisition of Reection, roll-out of which commenced in June 2012.
Western signicantly expands Rentokils service footprint in This fully-serviced solution targets high-end customers such the US and positions it as the third largest player in the US as luxury hotels, spas, corporate head ofces and premium pest control market.
In 2012 the pest control and products retail stores where image and customer perceptions are distribution businesses of Western generated annualised paramount.
This is a key element of our strategy to gain a revenues of 58.6m and 37.4m respectively please see leading position in the premium washrooms sector Note 32 for financial details of acquisition activity in 2012.
The integration of Western is going well with current trading The launch of a new Signature range of hygiene products in line with expectations.
following extensive research and development in 2012.
This fully-serviced solution will ultimately include 32 Some of our recent acquisitions units, covering hand hygiene, cubicle hygiene, waste management and air hygiene.
The range features modern rounded designs, produced to exacting standards with antibacterial surfaces to help reduce the spread of germs.
In parallel with this new product range, we will introduce a new customer-focused sales approach, incorporating new sales tools and training methods, as well as clearer sector targets.
Training will focus on providing customers with a fully structured hygiene survey using diagnostic service tools.
Launch is planned for April 2013 A successful pilot of new hygiene working practices called On Site Service OSS for feminine hygiene units in Australia, Netherlands and South Africa was completed in 2012.
Roll out will commence in a number of markets from Q1 2013 starting with Australia, in parallel with further pilot studies in South Africa
