Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Company Executive Board 31 Company Executive Board 2 3 4 1 5 6 7 8 9 The Chief Executive chairs the company executive board comprising the heads of the groups operating divisions, finance, human resources and information services functions.
They meet regularly to review performance, priorities and operational actions.
Alan Brown Chief Information Officer Managing Director, East region Chief Executive Skills and experience Appointed in August Skills and experience Appointed in April 2009.
He joined Rentokil Initial in June 2010 Previously worked for 28 years with Unilever, initially as Programme Director before assuming having been Executive Chairman in Australasia 2.
Xuemei Bennink-Bai responsibility as Textiles & Hygiene divisional and prior to that the group Head of IT and before Group Marketing & Innovation Director IT Director.
Prior to this he held a number of that Managing Director of the Foods business and Managing Director, Asia region positions at Unilever, most notably as Vice in Japan.
Skills and experience Appointed in October President, Global Application Services and 2009, initially with responsibility for operations Current external commitments and relevant CIO, Europe.
Formerly Managing Director qualications Board member of the European of Unilever Food Solutions China and a member Current external commitments and relevant Textile Services Association.
BSc Hons in of the Unilever Food Solutions Board for Asia, qualications No external commitments.
BA Physics from Imperial College, London.
Africa and the Middle East.
Prior to this she held Hons in Business Studies and a postgraduate a wide range of positions with Unilever in general of Warwick Business School.
David Smith management, sales, business development, Managing Director, City Link project management and research in China, 5.
Andy Ransom Skills and experience Appointed in December Vietnam, the Netherlands and the UK.
Previously at the Royal Mail Group since Director, West region Current external commitments and relevant 2002.
From the end of 2010 he was a member qualications No external commitments.
PhD of the Holdings Board where he served as Please see page 41. in Engineering from Cambridge University and Chief Customer officer for Royal Mail Group BSc in Engineering from Huazhong University responsible for the commercial direction of the UK 6.
Martin Sawkins of Science and Technology, China.
Age 46. Letters, Parcels and International Business, and Group HR Director driving an agenda of customer centricity.
Previous Skills and experience Appointed in November roles include Managing Director of Post Ofce Ltd 3.
Previously held positions as group HR and Managing Director of Parcelforce.
He also Managing Director, Initial Facilities Director at HomeServe plc: group HR Director at held senior roles at RS Components UK Ltd.
Skills and experience Appointed in September The AA Ltd and HR Director at Centrica Home 2010.
Formerly Group Director of Operations Current external commitments and relevant and Road Services.
Prior to this held a number and prior to that CEO of Integrated Services at qualications No external commitments.
of senior positions in HR and operations at Serco Group plc.
His previous career was with AChartered Accountant.
British Aerospace and United Biscuits.
BOC Group, holding managing director positions in Europe, China and South East Asia.
He also Current external commitments and relevant 9.
Jeremy Townsend worked for Nestl Ltd and GKN.
Formerly a qualications Non-executive director of Chief Financial Officer non-executive director of NG Bailey Ltd. Wincanton plc.
BSc Hons in Physics from Please see page 41.
Current external commitments and relevant qualications No external commitments.
