44 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Report of the Board Report of the Board Training Principal matters specifically The Company is mindful that on-going training for executive directors and non-executive directors must be targeted to reserved for the boards approval specic needs.
Where appropriate, directors participate in peer determining the groups objectives and strategy group discussion forums and seminars related to the commercial amendments to the structure and capital of the group environment, for example relating to executive remuneration, corporate governance matters financial reporting or risk management.
Training also covers approve the annual operating plan the group, its business sectors and governance matters more entry into material new businesses and markets or to cease generally.
During the year individual directors attended seminars: amaterial part of the business run by the Financial Reporting Council, the Institute of Chartered determining the significant risks the Company is willing to take Accountants and major accounting rms andreview the groups risk management approach on the UK Corporate Governance Code, financial reporting, approve financial statements and trading updates executive remuneration and board effectiveness approve dividend policy Training also included briengs on: approve any significant change in accounting policies or practices the remuneration of the Companys auditors and recommendations the Davies Committees and Financial Reporting Councils for appointment or removal reports on greater diversity conduct of all matters requiring the issue of circulars to shareholders the ABI and NAPF guidance on executive remuneration and listing particulars the UK Corporate Governance Code changes board membership and appointments, including of the chief executive BIS proposals on narrative reporting changes to the Companys organisation at the level immediately below the chief executive How the board operates terms and conditions of employment at the level immediately The board has three primary functions: the provision of clear belowthe chief executive strategic leadership, the appointment and oversight of senior introduction of or major changes in long-term incentive schemes management including other issues of stewardship and representing and listening to the views of shareholders.
The board is also committed to operating the business in a responsible and The board is organised both in depth of experience and skills sustainable manner.
to discharge its primary duty to promote the success of the Company while exercising independent judgement, care The board meets regularly, including away days to review and diligence.
The board is responsible for the groups risk strategy and is responsible for the overall leadership of the group.
management approach, including evaluating and reviewing A summary of the matters reserved for the boards attention the overall level of risk that is inherent in its strategy and for the and a timeline of matters considered in 2012 is shown overleaf execution of that strategy.
The board held ten meetings in 2012 and a calendar of board and committee meetings is shown and in addition held a two-day meeting to review and update on page 42. the groups strategic plan.
In addition to the responsibilities of the board as a whole, the non-executive directors constructively challenge executive management over performance against strategic and financial goals.
The board reviews strategy annually and periodically during the year.
The non-executive directors contribute to the development of the strategy of the group throughout the year drawing on their knowledge and experience and expectations ofshareholders.
4 As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help to develop proposals on strategy.
Board information The Chairman, supported by the company secretary, ensures that the board is kept properly informed and that matters are given appropriate attention.
Board papers and other information and resources are provided in sufficient time to allow directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
5 The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
