Board of Directors Alan Jackson Andrew Page Stephen Critoph Non-executive Chairman Group Finance Director Chief Executive officer Aged 69, he joined The Aged 54, he joined The Aged 52, he was appointed Restaurant Group plc as Restaurant Group plc as as Finance Director of Executive Chairman in March Finance Director in June The Restaurant Group plc 2001 and became non- 2001.
In December 2003 he in September 2004. executive Chairman from was appointed Group Previously he has held January 2006.
He has a Managing Director and in several senior finance wealth of experience in the January 2006 became Chief positions in Compass Group leisure sector.
His career plc and Granada Group plc, from 1973 to 1991, he has spanned both including Corporate occupied various positions international and domestic Development Director of within Whitbread, principally businesses.
Prior to joining Compass Roadside and Managing Director of The Restaurant Group plc, Finance Director of Beefeater steakhouses and he held a number of senior Travelodge and Little Chef.
also the Whitbread restaurant positions in the leisure and He trained and qualied as a division where he was hospitality industry including Chartered Accountant with responsible for the creation Senior Vice President with Deloitte & Touche.
and development of InterContinental Hotels and Beefeater, Travel Inns and TGI Finance Director of Hanover Friday brands.
After the Beer International plc.
Prior to that, Orders in 1991 he founded Andrew spent six years as a his own business which Corporate Financier with became Inn Business Group Kleinwort Benson having plc in 1995 and was trained and qualied as a subsequently acquired by Chartered Accountant Punch in 1999.
Oriental Restaurant Group plc until its sale to Noble House in 2000.
Currently Alan is non-executive deputy chairman of Redrow plc and a non-executive director of Playtech plc.
14 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Trish Corzine Tony Hughes Simon Cloke Executive Director, Non-executive Non-executive Concessions Aged 55, she joined The Aged 64, he was appointed Aged 45, he was appointed Restaurant Group plc in as a non-executive Director of as a non-executive Director 1993 as Area Manager for the Company in January of the Company in March Garfunkels which included 2008.
Formerly Global Head the Groups airport Director of the Restaurants of Industrials at Dresdner operations.
In 1997 she was Division of Mitchells & Butlers Kleinwort Wasserstein, he appointed Brand Director plc previously Bass plc and was appointed Managing of Garfunkels and Airports, Six Continents plc from 1995 Director of HSBCs Diversied and in 1999 was promoted to 2007 and served on the Industries Group in 2005 and to Operations Director Board of Mitchells & Butlers is currently responsible for Concessions.
Prior managing HSBCs business she was appointed Managing to joining Bass, he held senior with some of its largest house Director Concessions and in management roles at B&Q, building and building October 2003 was appointed J.
Prior to joining The Restaurant Group plc, Trish worked for HagenDazs then managed the Atacama Restaurant Group.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 15
