Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group No Director has a service contract with the Company Accounts for the year ended 30 December 2012. requiring more than twelve months notice.
Ms Corzine has advised the Board that she wishes to retire from her role as Results and dividends an executive Director of the Company, and, consequently, The results for the year ended 30 December 2012 are she will not seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting to presented under International Financial Reporting Standards be held on 15 May 2013.
Ms Corzine will therefore cease to IFRSs.
The Report and Accounts are drawn up on a 52 be a Director of the Company with effect from the end of the week reporting basis ending on 30 December 2012 2011: 52 Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2013. week reporting basis ending on 1 January 2012.
The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement In accordance with the Code, the other Directors will be on page 41.
This shows a Group profit after tax of 48.2m subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be 2011: 34.4m.
An interim dividend of 4.5p per share was held on 15 May 2013. paid on 10 October 2012.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 7.3p per share, which is subject to approval at the During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May non-executive Directors: 2013.
Should this be approved, the final dividend will be paid Simon Cloke Chairman on 10 July 2013, bringing the ordinary dividend per share Tony Hughes payable in respect of 2012 to 11.8p 2011: 10.5p, an increase of 12% on the prior year.
During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: Principal activity Tony Hughes Chairman The principal activity of the Group is the operation of restaurants and pub restaurants.
Further information relating Simon Cloke to the business, including a review of the years performance and planned developments, is given in the Chief Executive During the year the Nominations Committee comprised the Ofcers review of operations on pages 6 to 11. following Directors: Tony Hughes Chairman Business review Simon Cloke The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a Alan Jackson business review in this report.
The information that fulls the requirements of the business review can be found in the Andrew Page Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages The Directors remuneration report, which includes details 6 to 13, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares and options, together with information on service Directors contracts, is set out on pages 28 to 33.
Full details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 14 and 15.
The Directors who held ofce during 2012 Directors shareholdings were as follows: The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, all being beneficially owned, were as follows: Executive Directors At At At 26 February 30 December 1 January Andrew Page 2013 2012 2012 Stephen Critoph Executive Directors Trish Corzine Andrew Page 681,486 681,486 631,486 Stephen Critoph 358,197 358,197 283,197 Non-executive Directors Trish Corzine 325,830 325,830 274,705 Alan Jackson Tony Hughes Non-executive Directors Simon Cloke Alan Jackson 400,191 400,191 400,191 Tony Hughes 400,000 400,000 400,000 In respect of 2012, each of the non-executive Directors Simon Cloke 15,000 15,000 15,000 excluding the Chairman is considered by the Board to be independent.
Tony Hughes held the position of senior Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in non-executive Director.
Alan Jackson transitioned from the Directors remuneration report on pages 32 and 33. executive Chairman to non-executive Chairman on 1 January The closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares on 2006 and following his tenure as an executive Director, is not 30 December 2012 was 382.9p and the range during the considered to be an independent non-executive Director as financial year was 269.2p to 391.7p.
dened by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
16 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Share capital structure Substantial shareholdings The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares of At 13 February 2013 the Company had been notied of the 1 28 8p.
As at 30 December 2012, the issued, called up and following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share fully paid number of shares in issue was 200,298,132 shares.
capital of the Company: There are no preference shares or special rights pertaining Number % of issue to any of the shares in issue.
of shares share capital BlackRock Inc. 13,864,261 6.92% Following the 2012 Annual General Meeting the Directors M&G Investment Management Ltd 10,932,888 5.46% have had the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate Legal & General Investment nominal amount of 18,773,553 which represented Management Ltd 9,930,358 4.96% approximately one third of the ordinary share capital of the Aviva Investors 9,054,168 4.52% Company at the time the authority was given by shareholders.
Standard Life 8,050,502 4.02% Lloyds Banking Group 7,720,227 3.85% This authority expires at the Annual General Meeting to be F&C Asset Management plc 6,605,215 3.30% held on 15 May 2013 and it will be proposed to extend this Old Mutual Asset Managers 6,154,628 3.07% authority updated for the current number of shares in issue New Smith Asset Management at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present LLP 6,153,386 3.07% intention of exercising this authority.
At the 2012 Annual Ameriprise Financial Inc. 6,025,158 3.01% General Meeting the Directors were also provided with the authority to allot shares for cash other than on a pre-emptive Corporate governance basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,816,033 The Company is committed to high standards of corporate which represented approximately 5% of the issued share governance and to observing the principles of corporate capital at the time that the authority was given by governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance shareholders.
This authority also expires at the Annual Code that was issued in 2010 by the Financial Reporting General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2013 and it will be Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to proposed to extend this authority updated for the current shareholders.
number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
The Directors note the requirements of the Revised Corporate Governance Code and the Guidance on Audit Committees.
In addition, following the 2012 Annual General Meeting, the The Board will consider the requirements in detail during the Directors have the authority to make market purchases of year and adopt in line with the requirements for the year shares in The Restaurant Group plc on behalf of the ended 29 December 2013.
Company up to 20,025,123 ordinary shares which represented 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate capital at the time of the Notice of the 2012 Annual General Governance Code Meeting.
The minimum price that may be paid for such 1 Throughout the year ended 30 December 2012, the shares is 28 8p per share.
The maximum price is the higher Company has been in compliance with the provisions set of 5% above the average middle market quotation for the out in the Code except for provisions concerning the number ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the date of Directors considered to be independent, and the of purchase and the higher of the price of the last independence of the Chairman who was previously executive independent trade and the highest current independent bid Chairman before assuming the role of non-executive on the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List at the time Chairman in January 2006.
The Company currently has the purchase is carried out.
two non-executive Directors who are considered to be independent, which is less than the 50% of the Board This authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General best practice guidance under the Combined Code.
As a Meeting and it will be proposed to extend this authority consequence the Audit Committee and Remuneration updated for the current number of shares in issue at the Committees comprise two non-executive Directors rather forthcoming Meeting.
As noted in the Chief Executive than three as recommended by the Code.
Ofcers review of operations, the Directors will periodically review the capital structure of the Group to ensure there is an The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed appropriate framework to enable shareholder value to grow to ensure that the effectiveness of the Board and and to recognise the operational and financial gearing performance of the Group is at a high standard.
inherent in TRGs predominantly lease-based model.
Statement about applying the principles of the Code The Group has entered into various contracts, including The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 leases, during the course of ordinary business which of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the may be terminated in the event of a change of control of supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported The Restaurant Group plc.
Further explanation of how the Main Principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors remuneration report and the Audit Committee report.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 17 Report of the Directors continued The Board There is significant involvement from the non-executive The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership Directors.
This includes an ongoing dialogue with the of the Company and Group within a framework of prudent executive Directors including constructive challenge of and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed performance and the Groups strategy.
The Board reviews the Groups business Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow model and strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive necessary financial and human resources are in place to management of the Group.
achieve these objectives, to sustain them over the long-term and to review management performance against these Comprehensive Board papers including financial information objectives.
The Board also sets the Companys values and are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and, on standards and manages the business in a manner to meet a weekly basis, they receive up-to-date trading information.
its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors present, and this includes The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, discussions of targets set and achieved by management.
the Chief Executive officer, the Group Finance Director, the Executive Director of the Concessions business and All Directors have access to the advice and services of two non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear the Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed on pages 14 and 15 and these demonstrate a range of for the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent independent professional advice, if necessary, at the judgement on issues of strategy, risk management, expense of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a performance, resources and standards of conduct which process for Directors to receive training as to their role and is vital for the success of the Group.
its requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive Tony Hughes acts as senior independent non-executive Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons management and to visit the Groups operations in order to for concern on which contact through the normal channels enhance their understanding of the Groups business, its is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are clearly During 2012 there were seven Board meetings with full dened.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and attendance by Board members.
Executive Directors are effectiveness of the Board and the Chief Executive officer included in the annual performance evaluation of all senior is responsible for the strategic direction and operational employees within the Group.
This involves a comprehensive management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular review of performance against objectives and covers areas basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically for future development through appraisal documentation reserved for its consideration.
This includes approval of the and meetings.
The non-executive Directors also meet in the annual budget and the three year business plan, approval absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans of the interim and year-end Report and Accounts, review performance in the light of his fee review.
and approval of significant capital expenditure including development of new sites, significant disposals of assets The Company acknowledges the importance of developing and acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day courses and seminars and to acquire skills and experience running of the Group and report on a regular basis on which may enhance their contribution to the ongoing that performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible progress of the Group.
The Board and committees of the for reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic Board have been subject to a formal performance appraisal, direction of the Group and monitoring operational through an internal questionnaire, and the performance of all performance.
The Board is responsible to shareholders members of the Board is considered as part of the annual for the proper management of the Group and has access remuneration review process.
to the necessary information and training to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, except where they are appointed by shareholders, and to annual re-election thereafter.
18 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Communications with shareholders Audit Committee Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Audit Committee consists of two non-executive The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Ofcers review Directors.
During the year the Committee was chaired by of operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages Simon Cloke.
There are written terms of reference for the 4 to 13 include a detailed review of the business and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met twice during Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations on pages 2012 with full attendance at each meeting.
A more detailed 6 to 11 includes a review of planned future developments.
description of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors is included in the Audit Committee report on pages 34 including presentations after the Companys announcement and 35.
Shareholders of the Company have the opportunity of the year-end results, and at the half year.
Feedback from to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the external auditor of the major institutional shareholders is provided to the Board on Company at the Annual General Meeting to be held on a regular basis and, where appropriate, the Board will take 15 May 2013. steps to address their concerns and recommendations.
The Restaurant Group plc strategy The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate The Restaurant Groups key objective is to grow shareholder with private and institutional investors and welcomes their value and the strategy deployed to achieve this is to build a participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen business capable of generating long-term, sustainable and of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and growing cash ows.
In pursuit of this we have built a scalable Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General business model which is focused on the growing casual Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
We have targeted segments of this market which offer distinct barriers to entry and where we can be Remuneration Committee confident of delivering good growth in profits and cash ows The Remuneration Committee consists of two non-executive and where there is good potential for high returns on Directors.
There are written terms of reference for the investment.
This has led the Group to focus on edge and out Remuneration Committee.
There was 100% attendance of of town leisure and retail developments, rural and semi-rural the three Remuneration Committee meetings held during pubs and our Concessions business which operates 2012.
The role of this Committee and details of how the principally on airports.
The Group operates in the expanding Company complies with the principles of the Code are set casual dining market, and our offerings continue to provide out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 33. good value for money in comfortable surroundings and excellent service from our dedicated teams.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive The Groups strategy is to deliver further organic growth Directors, the non-executive Chairman and the Chief through the roll out of our brands Frankie & Bennys, Executive officer.
It met once during 2012 with full attendance Coast to Coast, Chiquito, Garfunkels and our Pub restaurant at the meeting.
There are written terms of reference for business.
We have a solid pipeline of sites for development, the Nominations Committee.
It is responsible for making coupled with a strong focus on continuing to deliver recommendations to the Board for the appointment or like-for-like sales growth from our existing restaurants.
replacement of additional Directors and ensuring there is Our Concessions business operates in a dynamic and an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience, complicated market where our management teams have knowledge and independence both now and in the future.
market-leading expertise and a track record of innovation and improving sales performance and the Group continues It is also responsible for succession planning for the Group.
to look for opportunities to expand this business.
The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity and promoting equal opportunities throughout the Group.
Since The Restaurant Group plc risk factors 2003, at least 25% of the executive Directors have been The Board of Directors regularly identify, monitor and manage female and currently over 40% of senior management within potential risks and uncertainties to the Group.
The list on the the Group are female.
The Nominations Committee will have following page sets out what the Directors consider to be the regard to the recommendations of the Women on Boards current principal risks and uncertainties, with an overview of report from Lord Davies published in February 2011 in its the mitigation process for these.
This list is not presumed to deliberations on future appointments.
be exhaustive and is, by its very nature, subject to change.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 19 Report of the Directors continued Risks and uncertainties Mitigation process Adverse economic conditions and a decline in consumer Regular monitoring of performance and appropriate action plans confidence and spend in the UK Increased supply of new restaurant concepts into the market Concentration on segments offering higher barriers to entry and good growth prospects: regular monitoring of performance and appropriate action plans Impact of terrorism in key locations including airports Contingency planning and training: liaison with authorities and landlords in key locations Possible health pandemic that may cause customers to stay Contingency planning and communication with employees away or prevent restaurants being adequately staffed Lack of new site opportunities, and risks to existing Dedicated property department focusing on new site development, Concession agreements strong relationships with Concessions partners Failure to provide customers with brand-standard value for Training, mystery diner visits, monitoring of customer feedback, money offerings and service levels internal quality control testing Major failure of key suppliers to deliver products Contingency planning for supply chain and suppliers into restaurants Damage to our brands images due to failures in environmental Training of restaurant and pub teams: detailed health and health compliance in the restaurants or from contamination safety manual: regular internal and external auditing of all sites: of products auditing of supply chain and suppliers: health and safety incentives and awards The loss of key personnel or failure to manage Benchmarking of remuneration packages: analysis of staff succession planning turnover: performance appraisal and review system to retain existing talent: Long-Term Incentive Plan Increase in prices of key raw materials including foreign currency Rolling programme of securing longer-term contracts to mitigate uctuations, wages, overheads and utilities short-term pricing uctuations: energy efficiency programme Reversion of formerly sold or disposed leases following business Monitoring of sub-let properties: ongoing relationships with failure of new occupiers property agents Failure to meet banking covenants Signed facility agreement, monitoring of financial performance against covenant levels: banking relationships: significant levels of headroom against covenants Increased regulation of the food and beverage industry leading Monitoring of developments and liaison with external authorities to higher costs such as the Food Standards Agency and Department of Health Breakdown in internal controls through fraud or error, major Experienced staff in key roles: segregation of duties: internal and failure of IT systems external audit processes: Audit Committee role Changes to tax regime, including VAT, corporation tax and Ongoing monitoring in conjunction with external advisers income tax 20 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Further information on the management of risks highlighted Internal control above is provided in the Chief Executive Ofcers review of The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with 6 to 13. guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board The Restaurant Group plc key performance has ensured that there is an ongoing process for reviewing indicators the effectiveness of the system of internal control including The Board of Directors and executive management receive identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks a wide range of management information delivered in a faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly reviewed timely manner.
Listed below are the principal measures by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with business of progress that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor planning and is documented in a risk register that has been the development of the Group.
progressively enhanced during the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Like-for-like sales This measure provides an indicator of the underlying Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the system performance of our existing restaurants, and highlights of internal control, the Board is aware that the system is successful development of our offerings to best match designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure changing consumer demands over time.
There is no to achieve business objectives and can only provide accounting standard or consistent denition of like-for-like reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material sales across the industry, although the Group has misstatement or loss.
applied a consistent basis of calculation across years for reporting like-for-like performance.
During 2012, The Group has well-established procedures which have been the Group like-for-like sales increased by 4.5% which developed over many years which meet the requirements followed a 3.25% increase in 2011. of the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board New sites opened in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular The expansion of our brands is a key driver of the Groups management meetings at which performance against plan profitability.
As noted in the Group Finance Directors and business prospects are reviewed.
The Group has a report, potential new sites are subject to a rigorous appraisal monthly executive management meeting where the three process before they are presented to the Board for approval.
executive Directors, senior operational managers and heads This process ensures we maintain the quality of openings as of functional departments review Group performance and well as the quantity of sites opened.
During 2012 the Group issues affecting the Group.
Additionally, the Board seeks opened 28 new sites 2011: 25 and plans to open 28 to 35 to continually strengthen the internal control system where new restaurants during 2013. this is consistent with improving the relationship between risk and reward.
EBITDA The ability of the Group to finance its roll-out programme is The Groups associate company, Living Ventures Restaurants aided by strong cash ows from the existing business.
The Group Limited, does not fall under the same internal controls Group defines EBITDA as operating profit before depreciation, as the Group.
The internal controls within the associate are amortisation and non-trading items.
EBITDA serves as a discussed with management of that company during useful proxy for cash ows generated by operations and is shareholder meetings and are considered to be appropriate closely monitored.
During 2012 the Group generated 95.5m for an entity of its size.
EBITDA, an increase of 6.5% on the 2011 level of 89.7m.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing Operating profit margin effectiveness of the internal control system are The Board and management closely monitor profit margins described below: as an indicator of operating efficiency within restaurants and Terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, across the Group.
For 2012 the Group adjusted operating including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and margin was 12.5% 2011: 12.6%.
an agreed annual programme of xed agenda items for Board approval: In addition, the Group closely scrutinises the returns on An established organisational structure with clear lines of invested capital from new site openings and the average responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements: EBITDA generated by restaurants.
Further information on Operational performance and operational matters are these key metrics is provided in the Chief Executive Ofcers considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors review of operations and the Group Finance Directors report.
Financial performance is monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets approved by the Board: The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 21 Report of the Directors continued Capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate and authorisation levels, with appraisals and postaccounting records that are sufficient to show and explain investment reviews: the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company Comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial standards and control procedures.
These include human statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are resources related policies, information technology and also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company health and safety.
The Group employs a rm of external and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for detection of fraud and other irregularities.
compliance with statutory and internal health and safety requirements: and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and An internal audit function headed by an experienced integrity of the corporate and financial information included internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and Groups business and reports into the Board.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts Information provided to auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that Report, Directors remuneration report and the financial they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any statements in accordance with applicable law and relevant information needed by the Companys auditor for regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditor is financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any the directors are required to prepare the Group financial relevant information of which the auditor is unaware.
This statements in accordance with International Financial information is given and should be interpreted in accordance Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements in Going concern accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted As referred to in the Chief Executive Ofcers review of Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards operations there continue to be significant economic and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must concerns facing the United Kingdom and consumer-facing not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they industries in particular.
The Group Finance Directors report give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company contains a summary of the cash ows and borrowing position and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Further information on the Groups policies for capital risk Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: management and financial risk management are set out properly select and apply accounting policies: below.
Potential risk factors and uncertainties that could affect the business are listed above.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The Group is highly cash generative, as explained in the understandable information: Group Finance Directors report, and enjoys negative working provide additional disclosures when compliance with the capital as, given the nature of the business, it generally does specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable not give credit to its customers.
During 2011 the Group users to understand the impact of particular transactions, renegotiated its banking facility and a new 140m rolling other events and conditions on the entitys financial facility was entered into.
This facility expires in October 2016. position and financial performance: and At 30 December 2012 the Group had net debt of 36.0m make an assessment of the companys ability to continue 1 January 2012: 41.6m.
Based on the Groups plans for 2013 and after making In preparing the parent company financial statements, enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading the Directors are required to: forecasts, consideration of current nancing arrangements select suitable accounting policies and then apply and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, them consistently: the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the make judgements and accounting estimates that are foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the reasonable and prudent: going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
22 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Capital risk management Creditor payment policy The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able The Companys policy is to agree the terms of payments with to continue as a going concern while looking to maximise its suppliers as and when a trading relationship is established.
The capital structure of the Group The Company ensures that the terms of payment are clear consists of equity comprising issued share capital, reserves and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the and retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and supplier meets its obligations.
At 30 December 2012 the cash equivalents.
Company had no trade creditors.
The Group had an average of 33 days 2011: 39 days purchases outstanding in trade The Group monitors its capital structure on a regular basis creditors.
through cash ow projections and consideration of the cost of nancing its capital.
In October 2011 the Group completed Donations a renancing exercise.
As part of this the Group has externally No donations for political purposes have been directly made imposed borrowing requirements.
The Group has a 140m by the Company during the year.
During the year, 69,758 revolving facility in place until October 2016 and a 10m was donated by the Group to the Caudwell Childrens Charity overdraft facility.
Under the terms of the 140m revolving as part of the Help Susanna Walk appeal, with a further facility the Group is required to comply with its nancing 75,000 raised through fundraising activities for this charity.
covenants whereby net interest charges must be covered at Other charitable events, fund raising and sponsorship are least four times by EBITDA and net debt must not exceed organised by restaurants for organisations in their locality three times EBITDA.
The margin on interest rates applied to as described in the corporate responsibility report on pages the revolving facility is dependent on the ratio of net debt to 24 to 27.
The banking facility covenants are tested twice annually and are monitored on a regular basis.
The Group Annual General Meeting remained within its banking facility covenant limits throughout A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the Annual 2012.
Further information concerning the Groups capital risk Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted management is set out in the Chief Executives review of on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take place on operations and the Group Finance Directors report.
Financial risk management The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are in the financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends therewith.
The Group does not use complex financial that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative shareholdings in the Company.
financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily nanced from retained earnings and bank Auditor borrowings including an overdraft facility.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditor and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group General Meeting for their reappointment.
also has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly from the Groups operations.
Further information is provided Directors responsibilities statement in note 23 to the accounts.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The average rate of interest charged during the year on the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view Groups debt was 2.64% 2011: 1.87%, and the average of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the year-end rate was 1.75% 2011: 2.02%.
On 2012 results, net Company and Group: and interest was covered 35.4 times 2011: 35.8 times by profit 2. the Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Ofcers review before tax, interest and non-trading items.
Based on year end of operations, Group Finance Directors report and report debt and profits for 2012, a 1% rise in interest rates would of the Directors include a fair review of the development reduce profits before tax and non-trading items by 0.8% and performance of the business and the position of the 2011: 0.9% and interest cover would reduce to 28.0 times Company and Group, together with a description of the 2011: 27.3 times.
principal risks and uncertainties faced.
At 30 December 2012 the Group had gross borrowings By Order of the Board, attracting interest including overdraft of 50.0m 2011: 53.0m and cash balances of 12.9m 2011: 10.2m.
Robert Morgan Company Secretary 27 February 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 23
