51 Sources: Associao Brasileira dos Fabricantes fide Latas fide Alta Reciclabilidade, Association of European Producers of Steel for Packaging, Beverage Can Makers Europe, Can Manufacturers Institute, Consumer Goods Forum, DEFRA, European Aluminium Association and Metal Packaging Europe.
forrecycled raw material which could be used in the products manufacturing ofproducts.
Our main focus remains on lightweighting through improved component design and the use of high performance polymers.
As plastic has a high energy Consumer packaging is designed to prevent waste, getting content, and CO emissions are some 25% less than coal, we 2 customers products efficiently and safely into consumers hands.
support the use of energy recovery from waste as a means to Itis an essential component of a modern and sustainable society managing plastic packaging waste.
where consumers place a high priority on convenience.
commitment Primary packaging accounts for only a small proportion of the totalenergy input into an average products life cycle from raw we will promote and support the most relevant recycling material to the end of its useful life.
Nevertheless, the supply and value recovery system for our products chainremains focused on achieving optimal packaging solutions.
Many countries in which we operate have well established This meansfinding the balance between underpackaging and recycling infrastructures for beverage cans and achieve recycling overpackaging.
Optimal useof raw materials and energy rates above 90%.
The global average is around 65%, the highest efficiencies keep costs down too.
As a leading global primary of any beverage packaging material.
Those markets with recycling packaging company, Rexam recognises its responsibility to be rates below the average require support to establish and enhance atthe forefront in terms of minimising the impact of its products collection mechanisms and build a recycling culture with on theenvironment.
consumers, and Rexam is committed to providing this support The availability of raw materials such as aluminium, steel and together with local policy makers and partners.
plastic resin is vital to Rexams future and we are taking more Recycling lowers the carbon footprint of beverage cans ownership for their sustainability.
The strategy for our different significantly: every tonne ofrecycled material offsets the need to rawmaterials is similar in terms of conservation and efficiency use a tonne of virgin raw material and results in an energy saving butis different in terms of end of life recycling or substitution.
As metal is infinitely recyclable with no loss of Beverage cans are made entirely from metal, mostly from quality, recycled beverage cans are turned back into sheet for the aluminium with some steel.
Both materials are permanent: the beverage and food can industries or used in other applications such as transport or construction.
metal is both fully recoverable and recyclable as an infinitely reusable material.
Independent lifecycle studies confirm that an The US recorded a 7 percentage point increase in the recycling increase in recycling rates is the most valuable contribution to rate to 63% in 2011, whilst in Europe the recycling rate for product sustainability, and more significant than efforts to beverage cans increased to 70%, atwo percentage point increase lightweight or improve plant energy efficiency.
on 2010, the latest available data.
The UK, the largest market in We recognise that plastics from fossil fuels are a finite resource andwe work with customers to assess bioplastic technology plastics based from renewable biomass sources and to search sustainability matters We published our most recent sustainability report in 2012.
This was accompanied by a short animation that explains our approach and our achievements to date for both internal and external stakeholders.
Find out more by watching the short animation Sustainability Matters: www.
com  financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 52 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report sustainability Europe and an important one for Rexam, recorded a large increase commitment in recycling from 54% to 60% in 2011, thanks to an improving we will work with policy makers to ensure packaging recycling culture.
The UK Government Waste Policy Review makes a positive contribution to sustainability commended two programmes which Rexam funds and helps to Rexam is an active member of a variety of national and manage, Every Can Counts and Metalmatters.
international industry and research associations as well as trade In Brazil, where recycling rates are already the highest in the bodies, who engage with policy makers on our behalf.
These often world, Rexam helped sponsor a series of debates in 2012 among draw their membership from the whole supply chain so that they mayoral candidates for major Brazilian cities to help political have a cohesive constructive approach to policy issues at national, leaders to understand the importance and the positive social regional and local levels.
In 2012 Metal Packaging Europe successfully brought its message In 2012 we initiated and completed a project to integrate eco of resource efficiency to the forefront of EU Policy when the design principles into the Healthcare product design process.
European Parliament endorsed the European Commissions From the beginning of 2013 all new proprietary products will be Resource Efficiency Roadmap, specifically calling for permanent reviewed to determine their sustainability credentials, for our materials to be made a new resource category.
This category customers interest as well as our own.
nowworks alongside the existing categories of renewable and non renewable resources and officially recognises the positive key measures and targets contribution which infinitely recyclable permanent materials, such The key measures for this commitment are the average can as metals, make to society.
recycling rates and, going forward, how our new Healthcare products measure up against our eco design scorecard.
As planned, in 2012, we rolled out our legislative and environmental risk assessment and mitigation management system Recycling rates for beverage cans vary across countries, due to across all of our beverage can businesses.
This ensures that policy different operating environments, culture and lifestyles.
We report issues impacting our business are identified, their potential impact these 2010 2011 latest published information together with assessed and appropriate risk mitigation strategies put into place.
targets set by industry associations of which we are a member.
The process highlighted a number of policy risks which together 2015 targets 2011 2010 2009 2008 with mitigation strategies were shared with senior executives in the 1 Beverage business as part of the overall risk management process.
Europe 75 n a 70 68 68 can average US 75 63 58 57 54 key measures recycling Our objective is to ensure that for every identified risk there are rates % Brazil 98 98 98 98 91 mitigation plans in place to ensure we are proactively engaged in 1 European 2011 recycling rates will be published mid 2013. industry issues before they become significant to our operations.
projecting the message in the US In the US, Rexam has invested in advertising the advantage of the can on highway billboards at a number of its locations across the country.
The signs are part of the ongoing campaign which includes can recycling days to raise awareness among consumers of the environmental benefit of the can.
53 commitment Much of the carbon footprint from our products is embedded in thematerials we purchase.
We therefore ask our key suppliers to we will engage with our customers and the supply chain participate in the CDP to help us ascertain our combined carbon to minimise the environmental impact of packaging and footprint and also understand where, together, we can make packaged goods improvements and drive out costs.
Packaging cannot be taken in isolation.
The best way to achieve key measures and targets lasting improvements in environmental performance is to engage From our customer feedback survey we aim to achieve a constructively with our customers and suppliers, seeking solutions favourable score above 70% which is regarded as a good in a partnership approach even though priorities may differ.
provides opportunities for Rexam to take a leadership position 2013 target 2012 through the promotion and application of best practice across the Group, whether in employee health and safety, lightweighting, Customer feedback favourable score % 70 71 logistics efficiency or packaging optimisation.
Key suppliers participate in CDP and we aim for an 80% response Our European business continued to work to reduce the rate by 2015 regarded as industry leading by CDP.
environmental burden of shipping empty cans to customers.
In 2012 over 2bn cans were shipped by train to Austria, 2015 target 2012 2011 Switzerland and Sweden, more than double the figure five years CDP supplier response rate % 80 71 57 ago.
In addition, 100m cans were shipped to Italy and Spain using intermodal transport where vehicles are placed on specialist train rolling stock.
Producing cans closer to our customers also makes an important contribution and our new plant in Finland see page 58 will reduce by 1.8 million the number of kilometres our cans travel by 2015.
Many of our customers operate supplier scorecards with specific sections that refer to their sustainability commitments and the contribution that Rexam makes towards their achievement.
Inaddition we proactively seek customer feedback on our sustainability as part of our customer satisfaction survey.
Thisdatabase now contains all of our key customers and we usethefeedback to identify areas for further improvement.
metal matters Metalmatters is a UK programme that promotes kerbside collection schemes for steel and aluminium packaging to encourage the public to recycle more often.
It is supported byRexam and to date 2m UK households have now received practical information on the benefits of metal recycling.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
